ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, I can remember that two members of the legislature have their vote in hand. First point in theme list: "Animation of the Committee of Incompatibility, about the legislature's compatibility condition of Eena Lete García. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board would like to vote for the resolution? Do any of the legislatures want to speak in favour of the judgment or against it? We can simply vote the decree of the union committee, except that of the members of the legislature related to the judgment, and we can vote for the rest. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 67; the votes are 69; the supporters are 69; the opposites are 0; the abstainations are 0; 0; white is 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u1	So the judgment has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "The bill of law to discuss a single-reading process, the production of the Basque Agency of Society." "Madech's representative has the word to defend the bill." Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u2	The head of the table, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, all good days. The bill before this plenary is designed to create a new public body called Aukerak, the Basque Agency for Social Reintegration. This law is part of the process of assuming Basque powers in prison matters, which, as you know, will be effective from 1 October tomorrow. The possibility originates in the legal form of public institutions of private law, and depends on the department of the prison law. The aim is to ease the society of people in Euscata prisons. Aukerak is established in the legal form of public bodies governed by private law and is attached to the department responsible for the enforcement of prison legislation. Its purpose is to facilitate the socio-occupational inclusion of persons in Basque prison facilities. In my explanatory statement on this bill, I will try to answer three questions. The first, why create a differentiated public entity from the General Administration. The second, why a public entity under private law. And, the third, why the need to pass a law so urgently. I therefore start with the first question: why create a differentiated public entity from the General Administration? There are reasons for efficiency and efficiency in management, but the most decisive one has to do with prison legislation. In order to recognize the productive work of internal persons, given their special employment relationship, the current legislation requires that the employer be a separate public entity from the prison administration. To this end, the State created the entity called Prison Work and Employment Training. In Catalonia, the so-called Centre d'Initiatives per a la Reinserció, CIRE, also operates. There are already productive workshops in the three Basque prisons in Euskadi. Some of these productive workshops deal with the tasks of the prison administration itself in basic activities for the day-to-day operation of the centres, such as savings or food. Other workshops arise from collaboration agreements with different private companies. In Euskadi we have about 350 workers in prison. 240 are workers of their own productive workshops, and 114 of workshops managed in collaboration with external companies. I encourage you to be able to learn more about this fruitful reality and that we trust to promote and strengthen in the coming years. Without the start-up of an entity with its own distinct personality, the work that these hundreds of people are already doing would not be legally regarded as an employment relationship. Without an entity like Aukerak this would become a mere occupational job, without the right to pay or social security contributions. Not having an agency like Aukerak would lead to a setback in the individual reintegration processes of inmates and interns. And, moreover, not to start it immediately, could have consequences on the future continuity of these productive workshops that are being developed in collaboration with external companies. It would be likely that, should it be interrupted, it would not be resumed due to loss of interest on the part of the cooperating entities. It is therefore essential to create an entity with its own legal personality in order to give continuity to prison productive work in subrogation of the pre-existing relations of the state entity. This consideration has already been taken into account in the negotiation of the transfer. Although the transfer is effective on 1 October, the State entity has undertaken to continue to manage the current production workshops until 31 December 2021. The negotiation contemplated this transitional period to give time to the creation of Aukerak. Second: Why a private law public body? Because it is the figure that best fits according to its purpose and functions. The figure of the public body governed by private law is regulated in the consolidated text of the Law on Computer Principles of the General Finance of the Basque Country. This is the legal form of the public entities carrying out productive and industrial, commercial and commercial activities of the products or services carried out. This legal figure fits the functions entrusted to Aukerak. And it is that, as I pointed out to you, Aukerak will be dedicated to the creation and management of industrial productive workshops that give employment to prisoners and to maintaining relations with collaborating companies for the commercialization of... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... and management of industrial productive workshops that give employment to prisoners and to maintain relations with collaborating companies for the marketing of such products. Other Basque public bodies have the same legal form. It is worth mentioning Lankidetza, our Development Cooperation Agency, Osakidetza, the EVE, EITB, the Basque Institute of Finance, Unibasq, the Etxepare Institute, the URA Agency or ETS. A public body governed by private law is governed by public law when it exercises administrative powers, resulting in the application of the provisions of budgetary, capital, public procurement for economic control, etc. Aukerak will assume within the guidelines of the Basque Prison Administration, everything concerning the productive work of the prisoners and their formation and socio-laboral insertion, therefore, will have the responsibility above all that to date was managed by the state entity, Prison Work and Training for Employment. I am sure that they share with me the importance of the right to work and the training of persons sentenced to custodial sentences within the resocialization to which it is directed. This resocializing orientation is marked by both the Constitution and prison legislation and international standards, such as the Nelson Mandela Rules of the United Nations for the treatment of prisoners or European prison rules. Giving these people the opportunity to develop their professional skills, their training and their work experience favors the processes of resocialization. This opportunity improves their self-esteem and increases their chances of finding paid employment once they are released. And it is noted that these opportunities reduce recidivism. In accordance with the above-mentioned rules, this work should be facilitated by the Administration and not subject to the achievement of economic interests. As indicated in the text under discussion, the functions of the Aukerak Elkargoa Agency will be as follows: Organizing productive work in prisons and their remuneration, managing productive workshops, agricultural holdings, as well as the auxiliary services of the prisons or insertion centres entrusted to them, also carrying out industrial, commercial or similar activities and, in general, how many operations are carried out with prison work or commissioned by the public administrations for the purpose of carrying out its own purposes. Thirdly, to promote vocational training for persons deprived of their liberty. Finally, to promote guidance for employment in the last phase of the sentence or in the semi-freedom regime and to collaborate with other institutions or entities in the continuity of the path of socio-occupational integration of such persons. It's a flexible resource. He'll have a model for the integral intervention. He'll ease the second chances from training and work. The basis of the pattern is not to be determined by pure occupation, socialization, and work-making, according to the skill of every man. He will also consider the introduction of the genus, of public politics, and of the European Union. The example will offer a method of orientation and support in the final phase of the sentence, or in the regime of half freedom. Aukerak is configured as a flexible and versatile instrument medium. Aukerak will have a comprehensive intervention model. Aukerak will aim to facilitate second chances for persons deprived of their liberty through training and socio-occupational integration. The Aukerak model is not based on the mere occupation of a high completion of the sentence, the Aukerak model will define itineraries of socio-laboral integration according to the skills and vocation of each person. The Aukerak model that will address the gender perspective, the integration of public policies and inclusion at the community level. And Aukerak's model will provide guidance, socio-occupational support in the last phase of the sentence or in the semi-freedom regime. The Aukerak model will link up with other public services and the existing third sector network for prisoners. The very name of Aukerak, Opportunities, is inspired by the resocializing principle that guides the enforcement of custodial sentences. He wished to express that work and socio-occupational training and guidance offered opportunities to prepare for future life once freedom had been regained. The idea is that people deserve second chances. The mark we've cultivated in Degon, the logo, will be enabled to connect with the idea of the wings of a butterfly. Butterfly symbolizes metamorphosis, and the butterfly effect is a slight change that may increase and cause a global transformation. Aukerak wants to equip people with tools to bring about small changes that impact on their transformation and society in a reciprocal way. Aukerak wants to contribute to a better society by contributing to social prevention. As for its organization, Aukerak will join the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy, through the Deputy Councillor responsible for the implementation of prison legislation, currently the Deputy Councillor of Justice. Its governing bodies shall be the Presidency, which shall have its highest representation, and the Presidency of the Council, the Governing Board to which the strategy and control of the entity corresponds, and the Directorate to which the ordinary management belongs, and shall have the high-ranking position of Director. The law foreshadows these bodies whose relationship will be supplemented by the statutes of the public body. The jobs of Aukerak shall be of civil servants and civil servants or of civil servants, depending on their duties, as determined by the employment relationship. In other words, the official is reserved for posts involving the exercise of public powers or the safeguarding of general interests. The staff of the state institution Prison and Employment Training transferred to Euskadi are reassigned to Aukerak, and their posts will remain in the prisons... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... State Prison Work and Employment Training transferred to Euskadi is rewritten Aukerak, and their posts will remain in the prisons; in particular, ten jobs. Aukerak will count as economic resources with the initial endowment of the entity and allocations in the General Budgets. Aukerak may also count on grants and contributions from other institutions or donations or bequests to him, as well as income derived from his property and rights and other public or private income in the performance of his duties. Medium-term funding requirements will be programmed in the entity's management plans. Predictably, the entity's income will be fed by the transfers in favour of it contained in the Budgets, the charges that, above all, the Prison Administration made to it for the management of productive workshops and the subsidies that it may receive from other institutions for its training activity. We understand that this income by training activity can come from Lanbide, through management fees, or from the European Social Fund. It will also receive revenue from its own productive activity, in relation to cooperation agreements it makes with other companies for the management of productive workshops. In any event, in this activity, in no case can it act under criteria of maximising the business benefit, for preventing it from an existing norm. The economic regime of assets, contracting, budgetary, financial and economic control and accounting shall be the same as that of public entities of this nature. It is envisaged that Aukerak will acquire the proper consideration of Basque public administrations and the public sector dependent on or linked to them. And, in any case, this future consideration should refer to the terms that express the Agency's statutes and the law on public sector contracts. And, finally, the third question: Why the need to approve it so urgently? Because the creation of a public body of institutional administration requires a formal law. And because there are extraordinary and urgent reasons for putting Aukerak into operation before 31 December; and it is that having an entity of these characteristics is the necessary condition to be able to take over the management of the prison production workshops and to give continuity to the special labour relations of more than 350 prisoners, without losing their labour rights and social security contributions. For this reason, immediately upon the closure of the transfer, the preliminary draft law has been drawn up and processed through the urgent procedure. For this reason, the Governing Council has provided, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 163 of the Rules of Procedure of the Basque Parliament, for the bill to be dealt with through the single reading procedure. The single reading is reasonable, given the extraordinary and urgent need for the adoption of this rule and given the extreme simplicity of the bill. This single Article is reduced to the creation of the Agency and its name, purpose, functions and nature as a public body governed by private law, the remainder of which is merely a reference to the common rules for entities of this nature. And, on the other hand, because the bill does not affect the organization of the institutions of the autonomous community, the legal regime of the outside institutions, the electoral regime, nor the rights, duties or freedoms of citizens. If he accepts this bill of laws, he will make another step for the foundation of the Eucharistic prison example. These principles are based on the solutions made on the meeting of the 13th of March 2019. It's a very important factor to work back to society. That's why I hope you'll accept this bill. The production of options is not a goal, it is a starting point. The production of options is a lever that will help us make small steps like a butterfly, producing a global transformation. If you are willing to support this bill, we will have taken one step further to lay the foundations for the prison model in Euskadi, which are inspired by the resolutions adopted by the plenary of the Basque Parliament on 13 March 2019. We know that reintegration into work is one of the most important factors for resocialization and non-recidivism. I therefore hope that this bill will be adopted with the greatest possible consensus. The creation of Aukerak is not a point of arrival, but...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u3	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u4	... a starting point. The creation of Aukerak is a lever to enable these small changes that, like the flapping of a butterfly, can be amplified and generate a global transformation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. There are side and side shifts. Who wants to be a part of the side shift? On the side. Turno a favor. On the side. Turn against. So in favor, Mrs. San José, representative of the Social Party, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. The Basque Socialists will support with our votes the bill to create Aukerak, the Basque Agency for Social Reinsertion. This bill, which she has submitted to the Councillor on Equality, Justice and Social Policy, Ms Artolazabal, is not included in the legislative calendar of the twelfth legislature, adopted by the Governing Council agreement of 10 November 2020. This is logical, given that the creation of Aukerak emanates from the recent agreement to transfer functions and services from the State Administration to the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country in prison matters. The Basque Socialists welcome the dialogue and political commitment between the two governments to improve self-government, from respect for laws and legal certainty. The actual handover of these functions takes place tomorrow, the first of October. In accordance with that agreement, the State Agency for Prisons and Employment Training will maintain its management until 31 December 2021, in order to provide continuity to the workshops managed by it as long as its autonomous equivalent is created. The power of self-organisation of public authorities is an essential principle of any political organization, as far as this is concerned the determination of... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... the power of self-organisation of the public authorities is an essential principle of any political organization, in this respect it is the determination of the concrete forms of organization and personification, through which the aim is to achieve the best and most effective achievement of the general interests entrusted to it. As the adviser has explained to us, the creation of this body is the organizational solution that responds to the obligation to give work to prisoners in Basque prisons. This entity is already covered in Action 3.29 of the Basics document for the implementation of the prison model of Euskadi, which mainly reflects the parliamentary resolutions on the prison model that emerged from the full monograph of this House of 13 March 2019, and the technical proposal of lines of a prison model in Euskadi, drawn up by a multidisciplinary team of experts, led by the then Deputy Justice Councillors, and socialists, Miren Gallástegui and Mikel Unzalu. I am not going to dwell on the content of the project, which has already explained in detail the Sailburu, but I would like to focus on the need and urgency for the creation of the Basque Agency for Social Reinsertion-Aukerak as a differentiated public body, in order to take as an employer all matters relating to work, occupational training or the socio-occupational integration of persons sentenced to custodial sentences. And it must be done well in advance, taking into account the time limits set, in order to ensure the continuity of the employment relations of domestic workers, without diminishing their labour rights and social security contributions. In short, by 1 January 2022, both to create and regulate the public body and to set it in motion and to be able to assume from the first day of the effectiveness of the transfer the management of the workshops in production and the status of employer of more than 350 people working in prisons, to pay their salaries and to discharge them in Social Security. Aukerak is configured as an instrumental, flexible and versatile means, directed through a comprehensive intervention model to facilitate second chances for persons deprived of their liberty, through training and job placement. A model not based on mere occupation during the execution of the sentence, but by defining paths of socio-laboral integration, taking into account the skills and vocation of each person, as well as the gender perspective, the integration of public policies and inclusion at the community level, a final dimension that includes providing socio-laboral guidance and accompaniment in the last phase of the sentence or in the semi-freedom regime, and the linkage with other public services, particularly Lanbide, and with the existing network of the third sector for ex-custods. There are numerous studies that confirm that social reintegration is directly linked to reintegration into the labour market once the sentence has been served; state and international law endorse this approach. Article 25(2) of the Spanish Constitution directs custodial sentences towards re-education and social reintegration, prohibits the punishment of forced labour, recognizes the right to remunerated work and the social security benefits of convicted persons. As I said, this resocializing orientation is marked by both the Constitution and prison legislation and international standards, such as the United Nations Nelson Mandela Rules for the Treatment of Prisoners or European Prison Rules. He pointed out earlier the urgency and necessity for the creation of Aukerak. But also opportunity and convenience, since it is a matter of managing industrial or commercial activities on the market, and it is the only possible way to give continuity to the special labour relations of prisoners in the light of existing legislation. I am finishing, but not without mentioning first the staff who provide their services in the State Entity of Public Law, Prison Work and Employment Training, which will go on to provide their services in Aukerak. To thank them for their work, which I am convinced is vocational, for the re-education and social reintegration of persons sentenced to custodial sentences. I hope that this bill will have the support of the rest of the groups in this House, because of their urgency, necessity, opportunity, convenience, for reasons of efficiency and efficiency in management, but above all to comply with existing prison legislation. Sailburu Artolazabal, as you have said, the creation of Aukerak is not a point of arrival, but a point of departure. You and your team have a lot of work ahead of them. I only have to wish them much success, and, of course, the extended hand of my group. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u7	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Eubertarians, Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u8	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, President, chief of departments and members of the legislature. Tomorrow, October 1, Euskaki will take over the prison transfer. This essential transfer rests on two articles of the United States of Guernica. To-morrow it will be an important day, and, indeed, we shall have occasion to improve a pattern, and thus it will be done, to manage it from knowledge and proximity. We'll have a chance to humanize the prison system, and we're ready. Euskadi and his organizations are ready. In this respect, there is a fundamental principle: to guarantee the right of persons sentenced to deprivation of liberty to be able to engage in paid work, to obtain the corresponding benefits of social security, as well as access to training and to the integral development of their personality. And all this with the primary aim of increasing their chances of finding paid employment, once they are released, as a form of reintegration and reintegration into a full life once the sentence has been served. With this spirit, with the resurrection and socialization, and, from tomorrow on, prison politics. Besides, they were admitted to this legislature itself. ... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... they would manage, and, from tomorrow, prison policy. Besides, they were admitted to the same extent in this legislature, by filling the foundations, by respecting a more democratic system and human rights-to one? ????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? Euskadi strongly believes in this option, to develop and work towards a prison model in which reintegration is achieved through re-education, training, obtaining work experience, always counting on the concerns of each person and on the equality of men and women as a fundamental premise. For us it is not an option that achieving rehabilitation after a period of deprivation of liberty depends on extraordinary opportunities, nor is it that as a society we are not guided by... We are guided by concepts opposed to reintegration, restoration and equality, such as hatred, revenge or lack of trust. We want a society in which the right to second chances prevails for those who have made a mistake and fulfilling the conditions established, can remake and straighten their lives. And here comes Aukerak. For the time being, your name is already a statement of intent. The Basque Agency for Social Reintegration, which is set up as an instrumental, flexible and versatile means, directed through a model of integral intervention, something that has already been explained to me, but which is important to stress, to facilitate second chances for persons deprived of their liberty through training, personal development and employment. A model not based on mere occupation during the time of completion of a sentence, but as has also been said, defining paths of socio-occupational integration. At this moment, I remember a quote from Dostoevski saying that the degree of civilization of a society is measured by the treatment of its prisoners. There is only one correction, prisoners and prisoners. The writer, who was sentenced to death for his revolutionary ideas of youth, saw his sentence commuted in exchange for spending five years of hard labour in a concentration camp. He drew a positive lesson from that lockdown that we must all apply, and at this time, Euskadi is betting to apply. Everyone can change and rehabilitate and find their place in life and in society. But to realize this he had to spend five long years of his life deprived of liberty in one place, specifically in Siberia, where even two centuries later opportunities are often lacking, stigmatization abounds and generosity is scarce in order to understand that we all have a right to a second chance, without forgetting that sometimes many people have not even had a first chance. And in that idea, that of betting on the second chances, is that in Euskadi it is the one we want, the one we understand and the one we are going to carry by flag. But returning to the realm of pure and hard management, the labour relations of the prisoners are of a special nature. And this requires the creation of differentiated public entities which act as employers of internal staff and which in turn operate on the market in productive, industrial, commercial and commercial activities for the marketing of products or services (?) loaned. And therefore Aukerak is constituted as a public body under private law attached to the competent department and that from 31 December will be subrogated in the role that until now the state entity Prison Work and Training for Employment, being its equivalent (?Self-employed. We are therefore faced with an exception to the provisions of Decree 169/2021 of 6 July, which approves the agreement of the Joint Commission on Transfers, State, Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and which materializes the transfer to our Autonomous Community of the functions and services on the implementation of the State's legislation on prison matters. A transfer that, as I said before, is dated October 1, 2021. This exception is solely due to the fact that, first of all, persons deprived of their liberty must be given security and guarantees in the labour and training aspects; the continuation of the labour relations of persons working in a prison must be ensured without losing any sign of their labour rights or of their social security contributions; therefore, the creation and implementation of Aukerak must be carried out with sufficient advance speed and efficiency, as explained by the Sailburu, hence the justification for the processing of this simple and simple bill, but efficient and effective and necessary, better said, by the procedure of a single reading procedure in order to ensure that, as a differentiated public body, as from 1 January 2022, its functions as employer in all matters relating to work, occupational training and the socio-laborative insertion of persons sentenced to deprivation of liberty with all the legal certainty required by the subject matter. And we are talking about a private entity governed by public law, because its activities include the creation and management of productive workshops that give employment to internal persons, which implies carrying out productive, industrial, commercial and marketing activities, as has already been said, of the products and services carried out, which necessarily have to be developed in accordance with private law, but without prejudice to the fact that in the exercise of public powers it acts in accordance with public law. Its nature therefore more appropriately fits in with the nature of public bodies of private law, rather than with other options, such as the creation of an autonomous body or a public society. Bukatzeko, I wouldn't want to end up without making a reference. And... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... autonomous body or a public society. Bukatzeko, I wouldn't want to end up without making a reference. And also, well, applaud the example given by Maixabel Lasa, now today by a recently released tape, with his claim for concord, repentance and the capacity for forgiveness. Precisely, this tape insists on the need for dialogue and on putting on the table the value and strength of the restorative encounters. But, in order for the model to work, the three legs must be standing and coordinated: the prison population, the public administration, along with all the seconded staff in prisons and civil society. If something fails, the model will not work and the speech will have remained in good, but mere words. And for that, Aukerak will be the instrument with which you are going to work actively so that these three legs are perfectly entangled. Imprisoned and imprisoned, committed and committed, tools to facilitate their training and employment, and a society involved and willing to give those second opportunities. It's our model, and it's not really based on the occupation of a sentence, or just passing through a prison to fill a verdict. We defend a model that has a career for socialization and work. Considering every prisoner's skill and vocation. A model that believes in the second options and the ability to change people. Orduan and therefore, from the group of Euzko Abertzaleak we will vote in favour of the bill that has presented us in this plenary the Salburu Artolazabal. And, of course, also request support from all the other groups, because it is a necessary instrument, essential for the development of our prison model, the Basque prison model, in which, of course, the Sailburu and all its equipment have our full support. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Passing on the other round, Mrs Martínez, the representative of Misto. It's your word, Mrs Martínnez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. In just over 12 hours the management of prisons will be carried out by the Basque Government, many years after thinking, and now that it is a matter of release, of granting prison benefits, of reintegrating into society and not of incarceration. Let's talk about this Basque Agency for Social Reinsertion that they have baptized as Opportunities. Maybe because for the left abertzale is a great opportunity. Hence they rushed to meet with directions from Basque prisons to pave the way for their people. No one is surprised if I say that Vox is radically opposed to this transfer, which also defends the management of centralized prisons. And, out of pure consistency, we cannot support the creation of a new Basque agency. A Basque agency that, in addition, presents a lot of laziness. We defend the centralized management and continuity of the state entity, prison work and training for employment. The one that, as a result of the transfer that will be effective tomorrow, will be replaced by Aukerak next 1 January. The objectives presented to us by the Sailburu are reasonable, at least on paper. The training of the prison population for employment, the creation of itineraries for their socio-occupational integration and the connection with public services and the third sector to act already in which their social environment will be. Doubts lie in how, how to do all this. They are in the decision concerning who is and who is not, the conditions to be met in order to incorporate certain prisoners into social reintegration routes under semi-freedom. And this brings us back to ETA prisoners, terrorists who still do not regret the damage they caused, who still do not renounce their terrorist past, and who insist on not collaborating with the State Security Forces and Corpses for the clarification of hundreds of unsolved crimes. I do not imagine Mrs Artolazabal, the last president of Aukerak, defending to treat a pederast or a rapist like any other prisoner, that that is what she defends, moreover, for ages deprived of liberty. I'm sure it wouldn't even go through his head, even more so if he was a repeat offender, proud of his crimes. And the reaction of ETA prisoners held in Pamplona prison, to the screening of the film Maixabel, shows the clear ones on the stage in which we move. Vox does not believe in the social reintegration of those who still justify disintegrating lives and families, and even less that they do so in the environment in which their victims live, people who, in many cases, are denied the right to mourning, to know who gave the order, who shot, who caused the bomb to explode, why... At this point, I will echo something that the counselor herself said: "Violence cannot be used to defend any policy. It is necessary to clarify that what they did, supported, did not condemn and even legitimized, made no sense, was wrong and was unfair." And that's the moment we're at, let's not forget. It's not another one. It is just that: no repentance, no collaboration and permanent justification. Empty words, politically correct, subject to the new progressive morality of little use on the street, when we go down to the ground. The road to hell is paved with good intentions, good words, the goodness of the reintegration of prisoners and prisoners into their environment. But prudence advises to avoid risks, such as justice and reason force to focus on victims, and not just on prisoners. And in their prison model, references to victims of crime are scarce, very few. No doubt, this is going to be a battle horse in the... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... Incarcerated. And in their prison model, references to victims of crime are scarce, very few. Without a doubt, this is going to be a battle horse in day-to-day management when it comes to granting prison privileges and benefits. A piece of paper, moreover, very committed to those who are called to lead the Aukerak Agency. Chaired by Councilwoman Artolazabal, and between six and nine people whose profile we know nothing about. Why don't we know anything about the profile of these people when everything is already half managed? Yes, it is ensured in its draft law that the operating rules of the Agency are established by decree of the Basque Government. And it all sounds like a new entity for the greater glory of the faithful with notebooks, the choice of like-minded people, the management and control of the Agency by the main party of the Basque Executive; with absolute obscurantism and opacity. Experience, that's what it tells us, it's its ballast, it's what they've been doing with great tenacity for decades now. There are too many beatings to support the bill before us, and I remind you: centralized prison management, not a single privilege or prison benefit for prisoners who do not regret the crimes committed, and especially if these crimes are of extreme gravity. Not a new entity run at your liking for the PNV. Not to obscurantism or the placement of grateful stomachs and faithful people and nationalist ideology. As you can see, more than enough reason to vote than not on this bill that is before us today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u11	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. We have before this House today, this Parliament, a bill for the approval of an entity, as has been said, a public body governed by private law, the Basque Agency for Social Reintegration-Aukerak. A bill that also comes through the single reading procedure. A single reading procedure which removes any possibility for the groups of this Parliament to give rise to further debate, to bring amendments, to rethink certain issues and, above all, to the role of this Parliament as a monitoring body of the Government. We are going to vote no to this bill, but we are going to vote no to it, not for reasons of form and substance. Of course, we are in favour, as it could not otherwise be, of the existence of processes of entities that guarantee the social reintegration of prisoners, is in article 25 of the Constitution. Of course, there is a need for entities to manage issues relating to the work of prisoners within prison institutions and for social security contributions, of course. What is happening is that we believe that this was a law important enough for it to have had an ordinary parliamentary procedure; and if not ordinary, for the haste, for the deadlines, as the Government has claimed by the counsellor, for what is less than for the urgency procedure for this Parliament to have a minimum opportunity to rule on some issues. There are groups here that differ in the approach to this issue, as night and day, north and south, but at least there is a public debate and there is a debate in this Parliament on this issue. I am going to answer the questions asked by the counsellor also in third person. Look, this can be another way. This transfer, in general, from prisons, has been a managed transfer, in my opinion, with great haste, with great haste, perhaps by the two executives, also the central and the autonomous, and above all with a certain lack of information to this Parliament. I do not say that it is not necessary to provoke this debate here and, well, to see how, logically, this very important part of the process of social reintegration will be managed. But there are different ways of doing things. Look, why do we object to formal issues? First, because the Government has alleged extraordinary circumstances. Extraordinary is not synonymous with having little time. This is something that the national executives, the last one above all, the one who is currently presiding over the country, Spain, use widely the decrees laws, right? There are a lot of decrees passing laws claiming "no, it's that we are in a hurry, extraordinary and urgent need." And it seems that the Basque Government has also become aware of this issue. Extraordinary is not synonymous with little time, it is that we almost go from bad to worse. With the law at the end called Anti-Pandemic and such, which was presented as a proposal for a law, (...) also and avoiding that they were sought, that they were presented, that all the legal reports were made, that was, in my opinion, a slap in the face to this Parliament. But bring a law right now, either you take it or you leave it all, especially in these conditions that I will develop below, because I think it is really beyond an ugly Parliament. Above all, I believe that it also calls into question the control systems and, above all, the parliamentary system itself. Let us see, the main reason for bringing this text to us with a single reading procedure is that the transfer will come into force this Friday, 1 October, and that, well, there is an agreement with the central government, which controls prison work, which is the proper means of the public body under private law, which manages these issues relating to the payment of wages and social security for prisoners. That this will be postponed until 31 December to allow the autonomous community, in this case, to make the internal adjustments that are logically necessary. Hey, why until 31 December and they haven't negotiated with the central government for six more months? (...) Six more months, which gives Parliament time to bring at least one law to this Parliament by urgent procedure; six more months. I don't know what these big rushes were coming to. Secondly, it is quite possible that this law will obviously be passed today, because the majority, the arithmetic of this Parliament... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... So big. Secondly, it is quite possible that this law will obviously be passed today because the majority, the arithmetic of this Parliament, will establish it. But if you have read, ladies and gentlemen, the bill which, I understand you all have done, you will see that there is a clause at the end of the additional provisions which says, well, in case, if you do not give time to do everything – because in reality this law what it says "will be created an agency that then its regulation will be in some statutes", those statutes must now be done, then register them, give them content, look for people, profiles – in case you do not give time to do all this and therefore the agency cannot go into operation on 1 January 2022, the person holding the council, of the department, in this case Mrs Artolazabal, will perform these functions in the meantime. That is to say, the Council itself, the Government itself realizes that this is going to be complicated to do all of this in the remaining months, which is barely in three months' time wrongly told what we have left this year. That's why I say, why hasn't an extra time been negotiated? As for the text itself, extraordinary and urgent, it is also not synonymous with simplicity or oversimplification, a slightly more laborious text could have been brought in. This is not what I say, uh, this is what they say about all the reports of the COJUA and the report of the ECO, which contains phrases that are stoning, that is, here we are talking – because they are diplomats legally speaking – about the low density of regulation. Of course, the COJUA what it says, listen, you want to create here an entity, that is fine, you choose to, as the counselor has said, by a private law public entity that is the most versatile way to manage this. Okay, okay, no problem. No, we're going to regulate this later in the bylaws. Okay. But the reason for doing this by law is not simply the formal act of coming to do this by law, it is that the law contains what is called an "essential minimum content", a basic content from which, from which, then, the statutes can effectively regulate it, and the COJUA has established it thus, there is nothing but to read the report quietly and there appears the low density, the low normative density that has been fine, in this case the COJUA has been very kind with the services of the counselor, but it says, this could have been regulated much more. The Office of Economic Control also gives you a little warning, listen, that you had to have also foreseen the action plan. In agreement that a body is to be set up, in agreement that through this and such, but listen, an action plan too, that is said in the ECO report as well. That's why we think that such an important issue, the truth that important or not important depends on who you hear, because sometimes we're told, no, it's a technical issue, just to pay wages, other times, no, it's going to be the backbone of the whole system in Basquedi. Well, listen to us, then, bring us a law that we can negotiate and perhaps they find themselves with a surprise, perhaps there is a consensus in this House on issues such as social reintegration which, I insist, is in article 25 of the Constitution, and which is something in which there is a very broad social and political consensus, there I believe there are no cracks. This reference made by the law that says "this body is created and, then, this is to be regulated through the statutes", that is practically a blank legislative delegation. But what we are going to adopt today, ladies and gentlemen, what is going to be adopted, with the votes of the majority, is a blank legislative delegation, which is going to be authorized by the government to do what it thinks and to set up the agency as it sees fit. Here you can tell me the argument, if it can be, listen, Mr Gordillo, but it is a technical entity that will simply pay salaries, will manage Social Security. Listen, and since we are in this debate, a question, why has not an agreement been made with the State to manage this, to continue to manage it, for example, Prison Work? This is the typical example in any decentralized State, which is an ideal opportunity to establish cooperation agreements between different public administrations, if it is true that it is an agency that is going to develop a purely technical aspect, listen, therefore, it makes an agreement with the State, and already, with the scope of the competence assumed by the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, therefore, develop the protocols as it deems appropriate, the processes, the itineraries, what it considers appropriate, and that then the implementation or the already more technical part that is the management of wages, wages, social security, etc., that this entity does so. Why do we have to create an additional entity? What does this additional entity provide? Is there anything in it? Is there any added value in this additional entity? Well, reading the reports, what we see is that to the current staffing, which is approximately 11 staff transferred, but it is expected that yes, the total staffing will be around 39 people, 39 people who, of course, that will include a high-ranking post, high-ranking secretary and a number of other endowments. What are these people's recruitment processes going to look like? Because, of course, so hasty, so hasty, it seems that January 1st is going to have to be all these people working too. Neither does the law, the bill better said, nor does it. On all these issues, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that Parliament should certainly vote against and ask the government to send us a bill again, but to cover this series of issues. The ideal would be a bill, if you like, by the urgency procedure. The ideal thing, in my opinion, is for an agreement to be made with the State, which would bring real efficiency, which is a word that has quoted the councilwoman, which is a word that also usually quotes the councilwoman of Self-Government. That would be efficiency, not duplication of structures in a useless way. That, in my opinion, would be, in the opinion of our group, the ideal. You don't? Well, hey, bring us a bill. It is because we are very fair in time, listen, well, because of the urgency procedure, at least, at least because of the urgency procedure, and so amendments can be made, a certain consensus can be reached in this House. But to bring in a single, very brief, reading bill that is practically a referral to the Government, through the general statutes, to provide for regulation until the last comma of this issue, and you take it all or leave it all, for no. Of course, we are voting against, but not because we are against social reintegration, let alone, we are voting against for the forms and then we are voting against because we believe that there is another way to manage this particular aspect of this competition. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u13	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Is Mrs. José supposed to take the word? Aren't you going to say a word? Eubertarians. Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u14	Thank you... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u15	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Labur-labur, Mr Gordillo, to explain to you that I believe I have been to insist again on what has already been carried out by the Sailburu in this act, and it is that the Rules of Procedure of the Basque Parliament, in Rule 163, allow a bill to be processed through the single reading procedure; therefore, no rights or controls are violated, simply an article of the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament is applied. In this case, moreover, as has already been stated and we reiterate, the single reading is reasonable, given the need for the adoption of this rule and also given the extreme simplicity of the draft law. The simplicity of the draft law is a single articulated text, it is reduced to the creation of an Agency for Social Reinsertion, its name, purpose, functions, nature of public entity under private law, the rest of which is merely a reference to the common regulation to entities of this nature. It is a bill that does not affect the legal order of the institutions of our Autonomous Community, the legal regime of the outside institutions, the electoral regime or the rights, duties and freedoms of citizens. And it has also been exposed where its need lies. It is essential to ensure that the management of social reintegration, the management of everything involved in contracts, the processing of labour and the contracts of persons who are currently deprived of their liberty and have a job within the prison, as well as all social security contributions, are not affected at all, either by a peak of loss, or by labour rights or social security contributions. And indeed, tomorrow, as I said in my speech, it is going to be an important day, 1 October, the time when the decree is set to give effect to the transmission, but the transmission of the organization and operation of prisons, not in any case of prison policy. Do not bring us a debate that, in addition to being tiring, is treacherous, we are talking about the transfer of prison management and a new model that this Government wants to implement. And in this bet that is our bet and so create Aukerak, because our bet is a bet on the restorative path. The prison policy to be developed in Euskadi must be an asset for coexistence and for political normalisation, and of course it will be Aukerak. Our bet is to work on one's own model. The Basque Government has designed its own prison model based on the three mistakes: re-education, re-socialization and reintegration of prisoners. A new Basque prison system that will be based on the most advanced restorative models that are already under way throughout Europe. A date has been set for this: 31 or 1 January 2022. Euskadi has its own public service profile which we are now going to apply to prison policies as well. The only and final aim is that the resocialization of prisoners is a reality and for this it is essential to create the conditions that facilitate and promote it, and Aukerak will be responsible for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. The answer time, Mrs Martínnez must not speak. Mr. Gordillo is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u17	Thank you, President. I wasn't going to intervene in the replica, I'll be very brief. But I think Mrs. Pérez Borinaga's speech... in some things might even coincide, but it's just that it's different what we're discussing here today, totally different. I've started looking a little bit in the House to see how many times we've used this process lately and I haven't found it, I've looked until 2018, so I've had some, but it's not a usual procedure, that's clear. And since we are, listen, you are also a lawyer, why don't you look at me for an example at national level in Spain compared in which you create an organ of these characteristics through a single reading procedure. Man, that the regulation allows it, or that the regulation at the end of the day the interpretation that is actually made allows it, well, it's okay, okay, there's still the Basque Public Sector Act passed, etc., that that's what saves this bill, which is not yet approved (...) Basque public sector. But I encourage you, I am not going to tell you challenge, but I encourage you to give me an example of when this has been done again. And then the other thing that surprises me very much is the emphasis that is being placed on the model of social reintegration itself, and so on, as if it had not been made social reintegration from the common institutions of the State or from Prison Work, has not been made social reintegration until now?, is not the government of Pedro Sánchez making social reintegration in his opinion?, that I here really have my doubts, it is not done and now... so far it has not been done and from now on it is going to be done, isn't it? The debate can really adorn it with things, we can use a metaphor that... a simile that is used a lot in economy above all, a metaphor, that of the butterfly, which is actually used to see how chance, not causality, sometimes ends up negatively affecting the economy, but we can have this debate about prisons, etc., when we want to, but of course, the debate here today is to approve, through a very extraordinary procedure that is the one reading, a blank cheque practically for the government to regulate through the general statutes, which we will see when it ends presenting them, a new body... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... which is the one reading, a blank cheque practically for the government to regulate through general statutes, which we will see when it ends up presenting them, a new agency, which in the very opinion of the government and the groups that support it are of paramount importance. I wonder what the government would think, if it were on the opposite side. It's extraordinary, because the volcano. It is extraordinary, for a serious problem that was not easy to predict. But if they've been negotiating with the central government for quite some time now, man, it was pretty predictable when they were about to close the transfer. I must insist that I do not understand why we cannot postpone the management by the national prison labour system itself, the management of this for a few months, so that a law can be discussed in this Parliament, at least because of the urgency procedure. That's what you don't understand. The other is another argument. Here, above all, it is to defend Parliament's position, in a place where agreements can be reached, and, above all, to seek the best possible legislation. And, of course, this, I do not say, says the COJUA, says the ECO, is not the best possible legislation. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u18	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. End of discussion, we'll vote for the bill. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 75; the supporters are 68; the opponents are 7; Absences, 0; white; 0,0; 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u19	So the bill has been accepted. After that, we'll go to a vote. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Miss Hatage, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u20	Thank you, ma'am. Right here, right there. Well, our vote was yes, and this would be the reason. We believe, from the transfer, that since the transfer was made to take possession of prison management, it is absolutely necessary that the production of personal structures should be produced, and that, on the other hand, we may give the following principal principles: for it is to be re-entered, and also to be paid, as long as it is in prison. As it is necessary for us to accomplish these two principles, and with all our guarantees, it is indispensable here, Euskalin, that we create our own structures. So, on the one hand, we vote "yes." Even because we're in a hurry to understand, we understand. We don't like it, but we understood it, and that's why we decided to vote for the affirmative. It is true that now, when Aukerak begins to walk, challenges are opened up to which we must meet; some of those challenges have been pointed out. I would also like to stress the need to respond to decent, materially dignified working conditions for the prisoners who are working. And, of course, also, the need to link work with work reintegration programmes that are carried out when prisoners and prisoners are released, or even to facilitate access to third-degrees, or even to second-degree flexibles. I think that these are issues that we are going to have to discuss, to talk about, to agree on. Y, en este caso, yes, I hope this time, if it's urgent, we haven't been able to talk, but I hope we can't talk, and I'd ask the chief physician, Mrs. Artolalarha, to have more information and to talk about. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Saez de Egillaz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u22	The lawmaster, the congressman, the chief physician, good day. The transfer of manual prison will be performed on October 1st, tomorrow it will be executed, after the stay of the years of the state's execution. Our position is clear: now it is our duty to hand over the invention of the Basque Agency of Society by means of this plan of legislation. First of all, there is no mention of the EH Collect route in this matter. We have proclaimed from the beginning that the transfer of the rightful prison is important to this people, like the rest of torn hands. Just say it and do it. Today, delays are delays, prison transfer is already a reality. We, as a people, proclaim a complete political and cultural ability for self-organization in order to respond to the wishes and necessities of every citizen. After all, we want to decide on ourselves to make other decisions. And in this case, prison management will be an opportunity to develop a prison model. In this sense, in this legislature, the position favorable to other prison policies is extensive. That's why we take care of ourselves, and compromise ourselves to work actively in order that the prison system may produce a real transformation, with a pure purpose: As far as possible from the system of euska prisons hitherto known, and for the good of our society and people. In this direction, indeed, the derangement of imprisonment, and the very principle of facing the difficulties to which the subsequent socialization is to be attended, is to be sure of every possible opportunity for paying or every moment in the course of the prison. It is essential that men who are serving the sanctions of freedom may develop their daily routine in a dignified manner, and, on the way to re-establish all the conditions of dignity in life, should be able to act as an employer in the Agency of Social Security. EH Bildu has been and will be an untiring asset in transforming the prison system into a system that will assume as its main objective the reintegration of each and every person. In this sense, individuals serving a private sentence... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... a system that will assume as the main objective the reintegration of each and every person. In that regard, persons serving sentences of deprivation of liberty must have all the conditions guaranteed in order to be able to develop a dignified life. That is why the creation of Aukerak, the Basque Agency for Social Reintegration, and that the latter does the job of the employer, giving work, training or guaranteeing what has to do with reintegration, for us, is important and we believe that we should be here. Thus it is plain that the transfer of prison leads to effect and to develop special ends and springs of labour in it, to cultivate and to support and define the course which belongs to the alta. We've given this bill a fair answer to all the fields in which prison transfers it. We'll still have a chance to discuss his advance here, because we've had to accept it in a hurry. But we believe that in its origin we must be active. And that's why today our vote was approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Third point in theme list: "Provide the proposal as a parlamentary group, in order to guarantee the possibility of using free software for all the schools of Euskal Autonomy in Erdi. To discuss and to decide once and for all." It's Martinez Axpe's turn to defend and compare his initiative with Mrs. Axpe.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. I'd like to have a few words for you before I start talking to you today. We have often requested of this army the workers of health who have worked in this country without stopping. And I'd like to do the same today. There is a proverb of youth: I'd like to do that. I want to thank the professional members who have been sometimes tsunamis, who have continued to give their best. Concretically, all the professionals from the Debare Hospital, from the entrance to everyone who works there. And, of course, workers who work on the fourth floor. When you need it, then you realize how important it is to invest in public health. Thank you very much for the close treatment. And I'll go on about today's subject: To guarantee free software in the community schools. The diagnosis of the Euskal education system in June 2021, according to which, in the digital education of Euskal, the digital privative platforms have a prior presence: Chromebook 46% and Windows 41%. All schools, or most of them, use the Chromebook and Windows to perform the digital education of the Basque Corporation. So we could say that Euscal, the yearly technology of the digital education of Erlaborics, is in the highest degree. These two companies in America are well rooted in euscal educational system. And, as we have often repeated, technology is not neutral. In accordance with technology, different values and different targets are cultivated. We often talk about what would happen if it passed with technology and passed with the dining room. You can imagine that in the restaurants at school to give us a daily lunch, let's say... It's either a company like Ayuso's pizza... I don't care. Let's say they come in the college restaurants to offer free lunch. Because I think the Board of Education would allow him to access our schools for free. The same thing is happening, but with digital technology, both hardware and digital platforms. Just the same. Google comes, it's supposed to be a low price or free price, and it goes all the way to the kitchen of the Basque Education Department. And, of course, when Google wants it, he cooks it the way he wants it. Google has a very attractive educational support, in fact, the same hardware and educational platform: Chromebooks, gmail, Google Classroom, (Write? ) But let us remember that education is not the end of multinational technology, it is not the end of education. Their purpose is to make money. Hence arises the want of dependence and of privacy which have been so often reproached. The addiction is normal because students are turning into addictive Googles, they've never seen any more. Since they're 10 years old, they've been working on the same art as the same technology as the Batxiler. Google doesn't have to campaign faithfulization. His students have been closely connected from childhood to future customers. And besides, lack of privacy. We've mentioned this many times. He makes business with all the traces of the community's data. So what he presents in reality is for our data. He's still doing business with the data that's ours. For to conclude that, from the care of the subject, we have seen the need of collective action, and that a judicial charge against the agreements made with Google is in progress. And in front of this reality, if schools today choose the digital education free software, they have no choice. There's no infrastructure, no integrated resources... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... if at the present day digital education is chosen free software, they have no choice. There's no infrastructure, no integrated resources with free software to develop the digital capacity of students and teachers. This is when you choose free software and then you choose the cruel reality of the Basque Central. The new computer doesn't come from Linux. Even more, LH6. level- BIOS is locked and cannot be installed on Linux. Two options were given to schools to provide computers for DBH: Chromebook and Windows-bound PCs, Windows-bound computers. No chance to keep Linux here. Computer feed. They don't do anything on Linux software. All new computers access a network and domain, but only when they have Windows. Educational platforms. Moodle's poor food. The Pandema platform fell and the schools were obliged to go to the other platforms. Email. Students. New business needs to be done under Microsoft or Google domains. No other solutions were given. About the loan of the portable computers, as it is explained on September 24th, it is clear that they will provide with Windows and Chromes for the students of public schools to lend their laptop computers. There is no Linux possibility here. This is the state of the schools which now act as part of free software. And that's why this has to be changed. And other countries have anticipated us, for example, in Catalonia. The City of Barcelona had run out of Windows and betted free software four years ago, and now it's even in education. In education, the City of Barcelona, together with a local corporation, has started the test of free software at five schools. They've developed their own education platform and it's already happening. On Catalonia, on the other hand, there's a G Level, YouTube, Instagram, forbidden in education, unlike here. The generality of Catalonia was charged with accusing them of entering into the childless students' records and collecting their data. And we also have several examples in the state. Andalucía, for instance, is in Valentian LLeurx, Madrid's Eddud, and Aragon's Vitawaux EDU. That's Linux distribution, which Arago government uses, for the education centers. The free software option, why choose? Choosing free software is more than choosing a certain technology, it's also a matter of philosophy. Free software makes us free. Knowledge is shared, the community is built. Free software is a tool for transforming society, supporting, sharing, co-operation, co-working, helping us create a more fair world. There are several reasons in the schools to encourage and use free software. There's eight freemen in education who have settled eight reasons, and, as I've got time, I'll discuss them. Number one, cooperation. Among the disciples the instrument gives liberty to share, even among the teachers. Second, autonomy. The school devices give the liberty of managing schools themselves. You don't need anyone, it's where you do. Save expenses, number three. Provides freedom to copy and distribute the software. Number four, the desire to learn. Provides freedom to read and understand the source code of what you use, by giving it the way to knowing. And here, I'd introduce the SYRIL strategy of this government, for example, that's very good here, isn't it? And, on the other hand, it also gives the opportunity to construct consistent thought. The fifth is imagination and creative. It gives freedom to create and distribute your adaptations and developments. Six, to the euska. Survival. It's full of euphoric software, and it gives more freedom to sustain it. You know what's going on with Windows, don't you? You either go through the Windows or the box or the eucalyptic. Seven, ready for digital society. Provides freedom to choose and design your work tools, software and devices. Eight, last, free citizens. The technological knowledge gives liberty to enlarge, to create independent and solsidious expenses. These are the eight reasons that have been raised by Free Education. We have mentioned that whatever passes through Google and Windos, I believe there is time to reflect deeply on all this, this government and this country. And to finish, to mention education is not to serve the market. There's a lack of a digital education strategy, I've often mentioned it. It is beyond the exact demand of a certain school-house, the responsibility of government, and the right of citizens, of education and of families, is to show everyone in a digital education which is not subject to the market. To guarantee free software would help a digital education that won't be in the service of the market to open the doors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez Axpez... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... It would help him open the doors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez Axpe. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections together Podemos-Nozzerz, Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u27	Thank you, ma'am. Welcome back, Lore. Free software, which gives us the right to use, learn, share, and improve software. There are other fundamental liberties founded on these rights, such as freedom of expression, liberty of press, and the right of privacy. Public education is the second most important competence of the Autonomous Administration. It is in budgetary terms, in terms of staff and in the number of people who revolve around it every day. Public education is, together with Osakidetza, the two fundamental pillars of the public which are at the heart of the administration and which this Parliament has an obligation to shape. And, basically, what we're going to discuss today has to do with the shielding, with the armoring of this administration and public education in front of the trumpeting of the big companies and the big tech corporations of Silicon Valley: Google, Amazon, Facebook, Apple, Microsoft, the big Internet giants. From Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, from my parliamentary group, we defend where we have representation that we must prevent the world's most powerful multinationals from entering the public network through the big door. Munduko multinationalk handienak eta boteretsuenak at handitik sartzea saihestu behar dugu. This is particularly relevant, not only because education conditions the lives of our children and young people, but because public education has so far been a wall, an oasis and a sanctuary in front of market and commodity forces. And I say this to you to make it clear that this debate is not a minor issue. It is a debate that probably defines in part what the model of public school will be in the future and what kind of public administration we will have and, above all, the conception of knowledge and progress that our country will have. And this last one, which may seem like an abstraction, is not. Izan ere, horixe da, gure legebiltzar-taldearen ustez, proposeen Honen Eztabaida Honen, Eta Hurrengoetan, chedea. The question of proprietary or proprietary software and free software is nothing other than the dispute between a conception of knowledge derived from the history of appropriationism, that entrepreneurial genius of a California garage, and the other, which is what we defend, which is that knowledge, technological development, the development of productive forces are a social product and a collective becoming. Bata edo bestearen hartzeareen inplikazioak atzeman tenakeguna bath askoz sakonagoak dira. Eta hemen dago gaur eztabaidatzen ari train stationen proposemenarren oinarria era. What do we want? That model of large corporations that bill more than the gross domestic product of many nations? Do those companies that penetrate our lives so much that they know our habits, our tastes, our movements, our desires, our diseases? So much so that the main business of these corporations is no other than our data. Guk was a dugu nahi hori. Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita wants the other model, that of anonymous knowledge, that of collective knowledge, replicable, living, transformable, that of the universal library, that of the dream of an Internet for all, that of a collective consciousness. When we talk about free software, we talk about the freedom to run, copy, distribute, study, modify and improve software. These combined freedoms give us technological sovereignty. And this gives us total independence. Software librea ebiltzea erabaki genuine geure biderako abiaputu bat aukeratzen ari gara. Burujabetza teknologikorako bidea da, bi aldetatik: alde battik, that of the famous ICTs, information and communication technologies, and in the sense of safeguarding the fundamental asset, which is what I have commented before, data and information. Bigarren honetan, funtsean, eta gure eskoletarako eztabaidatzen ari garanna da e bermatu dezakegun securtas una trena digitalan eta eta eskoletan komunikazioan. What we are discussing here today is whether we guarantee our children their privacy in the use of the tools that are already the equivalent of our slate and chalk today. It is a fundamental debate. It affects one of the central areas of the Basque public administration and one of the most relevant areas of the social development of the future, which is digital technological development. What we are discussing today are the contrasting of two models and two ways of understanding technology and knowledge. One, the one that prevails all over the world and also in the Basque Government, is to make the identities of thousands of students available to Google and Microsoft and depend on their technologies. In our educational system, technological sovereignty is fully handed over to foreign private capitals. At the infrastructure level, although we cannot have free hardware, it is possible to choose between equipment with different levels of dependence. Well, here, in the education system, the most dependent equipment has been chosen. This has led us to such pitiful situations as we have with Google's Chromebooks, which in ten years have become obsolete. So what's going on? That the Administration is engaged in renewing these devices, even if they are in good condition, because they cannot continue to be used. This contradicts... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... to renew these devices, even if they are in good condition, because you cannot continue using them. This contradicts a number of issues that we talk about here many times, sustainability and the principles of circular economy, which we are supposed to be promoting for a long time, are on the agenda of all governments. Why don't we buy some equipment we can handle? Why don't we buy the equipment we want to install software? It is that at the level of data and information we are handing all the information of our children, of our students, to that system that monetizes their data, their documents, their class work, teacher planning. Heifer, horrella, gure gasteak sartzen ari gara tresna horiek ebiltzen, éta mendekotasun hori errepikatzen ari da behin eta berriro. Therefore, our proposal in this matter is clear, and so we have it in the correction of the medium agreed to with the collected EH. On the one hand, in the transaction to which we have arrived, we bet on free software in Education, that is our model, we offer children, teachers and families the ability to develop solutions to their own problems. We promote the freedom to execute, study, copy, distribute, modify, to improve their own system, their own needs, and we are also providing tools that bring them closer to cooperative and collaborative work and a much more democratic system of government. On the other hand, you also have to work with free hardware in Education, because it offers countless opportunities from the (?) You yourself, even robotics and also free software migration in the educational system that is reflected in our amendment. This has a number of direct impacts in many sectors, but what we can see most clearly is that you can create jobs of quality, of local quality and the great savings that this can entail for public coffers, not depending on paying thousands of user licenses. So the model of the digital management of our education system is very different from that of my legal teams. So we vote against it. "Acabo con lo que decía Diana Franco, representant del collectivo. e?????a??????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? Diana Franco came to the committee, to the Board of Education, and ended by saying: "As in free software, there are alternatives which encourage free collective science and free standard, and the time is for a reasonable, patient, and conscientious digitalization. We want to call the administration so that the digitalization process will lead us to a technical basis, a free, tolerable, powerful infrastructure, and not allow us to submit to a commercially interested solution the digital education of our students." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u29	Good morning. Before entering Bildu's concrete proposal on free software, I think it's good to make some history, because the truth is that in this matter we don't start from scratch. Almost a decade ago, in July 2012 in particular, the Basque government of the lehendakari Patxi López approved a software opening decree that basically made it possible to make computer applications developed from that time on available to other users. All new computer applications developed from that time on should be open source and therefore reusable. In order to draw up this decree to which I refer, the Basque Government at the time had interlocutors such as the CIC cluster of Euskadi, Gaia and the Association of Free Software Companies of Euskadi, ESLE. The Governing Council adopted a decree allowing Basque public administrations to make computer applications developed by themselves or through third parties available to other users. In this way, Euskadi was at the head of the development of free software, establishing the general principle of openness, not only within the framework of the electronic administration, but also of any computer application owned by the Basque administration at the time. Until then, computer applications developed by any entity in general were only known and at the disposal of its owner, with the possibility of being reused by others being severely restricted. From that point on, the paradigm is changed, as all applications would be open, and therefore reusable, unless they competed with security-related conditions or interfered with public-private partnerships. With the approval of this decree the three errors of recycling applied to computer science. First, reduce the number of similar applications; secondly, reuse computer applications or components thereof; and thirdly, recycle those components to create applications for other purposes or even for other economic sectors. At the same time, the Basque administration deepened its determination of the rational use of public resources by forcing itself to reuse the existing ones, with the aim of reducing the associated costs and that these resources could be used in processes that would bring real added value to public management. The decree not only favoured and promoted the competitiveness, quality and efficiency of those who developed computer applications for the public sector, but in the medium and long term made it possible for new products to be developed. It's important... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ...informatics for the public sector, but in the medium and long term it would be possible to develop new products. It is important to note that 10 of the 17 Spanish Autonomous Communities use open source software or tools based on it. The Basque Country at that time, 2012, became the first Administration of Spain and Europe to regulate at that level the procurement of public software with the approval of the Decree of Reuse of Software in 2012. Unfortunately, there is currently a lack of free software in digital education, so progress must be made in that direction and especially in the digital literacy of educational institutions, strengthening the training of teachers and students; having the infrastructure and tools to facilitate a quality training process that addresses equity and equal opportunities in the field of technology; and betting on the technological solutions and platforms that most educational institutions demand and provide the high-value-added services that the educational system requires. We would have liked a compromise to have been reached with the original proposal put forward by Bildu, if it had properly complemented our amendment. Since this agreement has not been possible, we maintain the amendment tabled by the Basque Socialists together with the Basque Nationalists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u30	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Chief Department, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good noon to all. The first thing I would like to say today is that some one, using the language which is used in the text of the following discussion, free software, or the other law, is that the collision between the privative software, the rivalry, the political or socialization of the Ideologization, is that, in our humble opinion, he is failing. Thus, in writing, "In the digital education of the Euscal Autonomia of Erria, the absence of free software has been displayed," in no way, want, and wants are satisfied. The other, not want at all, because there was no obligation. And here, what has happened, is that the advantages of free software are known, and that these disadvantages are in some respects considered essential. Mrs. Martinez, on this subject, asked Mrs. Tapia department, and I, to-day, the manager of this field, though not an education manager, will bring in Madame Tapya's words when she answers that question. "For corporations... "Oh, he's thinking of business, of course, he says for corporations-" the free software has shown the capacity to produce high-added products that it was a privative software." It calls that necessary condition. "But both of them must be able to satisfy the wants of each case, or to repair real difficulties. That's why they're not always enough." In the second question, Ms. Tapia answers: "EDE 2025... "that is to say, "the strategy of the Digital Transformation of Eukadicus." 2025 does not set the criteria for prioring the software of either one or the other, it depends on companies and requests in the EIKT sector. That's exactly what I've been trying to say, in other words. And that's why I've concluded that what he wants to encounter, fight, or ideology in politics or socially, is, in our humble opinion, failing. It was also mentioned in the text of the law to determine the freedom of the digital educational platforms which the schools and the education community think best of their language. And yesterday, I went on with great interest at the Board of Education to get a word that Mrs. Martinez had had, and I agreed to say something about mobile telephone usage: his reputation was that in Barakaldo and the Arechabals there could be no difference. And, even here, they won't have to be. For all this we saw fit to rectify, to give a more comprehensive and comprehensive way to this law of justice, in these terms. One, to advance the digital alphabetization of schools, by strengthening the ability of teachers and students, will be considered by substructure and tools which facilitate the process of physical training, in order to respond to equity and opportunity in the field of technology. Two substructures and tools being developed according to the standards fixed in the information and communication handling patterns in the public sector of Basque Autonomia Erria, to the care of which is to be cared for, by 36/20 Decretua and Euscalmia Escimia in the public sector of Erdi, along with instructions on a guarantee of security and privacy, and according to the legislation that is in force. And three, under the order of most of the schools, of the education system according to the standard corporations above mentioned, to wager for the solutions and technological platforms which it requires. And someone can tell us, because it is very common, that such a formula as that of the last sentence is very general and a great deal generic. But, fortunately, we live neither alone nor isolated, and therefore we ought not to forget what these solutions are in the most advanced countries around us, and even amongst those who have better educations. For the first time, when we say, "in the digital alphabetization of the homes, by strengthening the capacity of the teachers and students, they will consider substructures and tools which facilitate the process of preparation, in order to respond to equity and to equality in the field of technology," we remember, among other things, that Mr. Roberto Álvarez, whom we had in this representation of the law, was a Mr. "La valiosa informo que almacenen lostros, junto el mínimo nivelimo de civésquiidad y compenscia digital de los visubaris del system, alumnodo, profanodo y epledis deltro, deja a cos colegios encito muón vulner exciable los ciliaque." [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...and the digital competence of the users of the system, students, teachers and employees of the center, leaves schools in a very vulnerable situation to cyberattacks. In the same way, this correction has been set on, one of them, with homogeneization of technology, makes it easier for the professors, students, and families to come to a digital education, if they share the same technology. Two, the students we have in our colleges nowadays, must work with the software, which tomorrow or the day after the corporations most require. And that three, the choice of a particular software, should not be measured in education from being free or not being free software, but from the ability to have software managed by the best part in each state because it is in the implementation of the software's implementation facility in the knowledge of the recipients of that software, or in the administration of data, security and privacy of it. I don't want it to end, ladies and gentlemen, without admitting that we are discussing an important part of the technical area of an important subject. In the education and education of our children and young children, the training of the future, which is but a great influence, is of great importance also in the sphere of security. As we have to do for our leisure, for our purchases, for our formation, in general for our life, for the security and privacy of our streets, just as we must begin our virtual life. And though we are sometimes overcome by the novelty that comes from this reality, we ought not to resist them from the fear we often see and hear, and from the discourses of fear, but from the greatest reverence and care of prudence. Everything can be improved, everything is unstable. But in this respect we're looking forward to the strong path, which is today with the Social Party, who proposes to you the day of support and departure with the Socialist Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u32	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Euscalo Popular-Ciudadnos's representative. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Well, we've been here to a closed defense of free software, no inconvenience, so you can see. I do not know whether it is the result of ignorance of what it really means or the result of the need or intention to politicize free software and turn it into an element of political confrontation, of appropriation of a political flag. I don't get it very well. I wish free software was the solution to the problems of our schools. I wish. I wish it were as easy as changing software to solve teachers' problems, to solve even the country's democratic quality problems, or even to solve the world's communications or security problems. Well, the reality is that free software is an interesting move. It is a movement that I believe is born with noble objectives, which, in fact, is characterized by the need or freedom of the user to modify, copy and distribute the software, without anyone being able to take legal action against (...) without any license. And, in that sense, free software is an option, which I believe deserves to be analysed and it deserves to be taken into account, as, surely, it has already been done. In that regard, I understand the initiative. I do not understand free software as a solution to all evils, as it lacks drawbacks and as an option to be imposed on the centers. Yes, as an alternative that must be taken into account and that, surely, in the future it will have a greater presence than it has today. Because, obviously, free software, like all software, like all options, have drawbacks. This is obvious. And one of them is that no one is responsible for it either, that is, it needs training, it needs support, it needs a (...) hardware, it needs compatibility with other software. And, of course, what you are asking is that the Basque Government should take care of all this, with the money of all the taxpayers. It is an option, I repeat, it is an option, but there are others on the table, because the others on the table, which have other drawbacks, one of which has already been pointed out here, these things have more or less solved them. Well, the data shows us that the overwhelming majority of centers are finally decanted by Windows-based systems and Chromebook-based systems. I think it'll be for something. It will certainly be because they see clear advantages. But already has the Basque Government itself created a Technical Office of Support for Free Software, which we have seen that already in 2017 it had 10 workers. And, soon, we will ask the government for information about its activity and its current cost. I mean, we're in favour of free software being on the table, but let's be aware of its drawbacks. It requires a level of technological mastery that most centres and most teachers and most pupils unfortunately do not have. They have some maintenance and adaptation problems that would make life very difficult for us today. And it's logical that you bet on more comfortable solutions, and I'd say more sensible ones, too. I must confess that I did not understand very well point 6 of the transaction requiring the Government to materialise the GNP within three months. This is already a very practical matter. What exactly is it that is asked to materialize? Because the above points speak not of anything concrete, but of the government encouraging, guaranteeing use, guaranteeing resources, guaranteeing training. No, it is not possible to materialize such broad concepts within three months or any other time frame. And excuse me, gentlemen of the government, for coming out in your defense on this occasion. But I just need to understand what the proposer means. This Bildu initiative, as has already been said here, is not the first on this issue. In fact, there's a long story about it. But I am glad that the concept of technological sovereignty has not been clarified on this occasion, as it had been done before. However, Mrs. Gonzalez, from Podemos... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... I am pleased that on this occasion the concept of technological sovereignty has not been explained – as it had been done before – but Mrs González of Podemos has repeated it twice. I have to confess that the concept is somewhat ridiculous to me, but if the goal of this initiative is to fight windmills, as El Quixote did and get the students in the middle of this fight, don't count on us. We have not tabled an amendment to this proposal precisely for these reasons, because it seems to us that it makes no sense, especially the approach with which it has been presented. It is not a reasonable approach, it is a somewhat taxive approach, that is, everyone to use free software, whether we want it or not, etc., etc. This approach, this way of working, we don't like it very much. I don't know, Mrs. González, I don't know, Mrs. Martínez, don't you use Google? You don't use Microsoft? You guys don't use Apple? Because one of the phones offered by the Basque Parliament is Apple's, all this goes against technological sovereignty. Don't you? They don't use any of this, all they use is free software. I don't know. With regard to the amendment of the PNV and the PSOE, I have to tell you that we are 100% in agreement on their first point of progress in the digital literacy of educational institutions, but this has nothing to do with the point we are dealing with today. The second point refers to Decree 36/2020 regulating the model of management of information technologies, but none of the 19 pages of that decree is spoken or a word of software, so we do not understand that it has anything to do with this initiative. That is to say, you have made an initiative of general purpose, the content of which is good, but which does not bring us anything to this debate either. And we do announce that we will vote against Podemos plus Bildu's transaction because we understand that we cannot spend energy trying to replace the private initiative, which is globally recognized and awarded, with the public initiative that on paper can have its advantages, but I believe that experience shows us that it ends up coming out more expensive and less effective. Instead of spending effort and trying to create a Basque Google from within Administration or a Basque Windows, we should always look at the judgment of how to give better service to students, and use those functions that are most successful worldwide. Let us look for synergies, let us seek to reach the balance in which we all feel benefited, let us give the best possible service to the students at the most adjusted price. And big companies, whether we like it or not, take a lot of advantage in this and I suspect it will take us a long time, because while in Euskadi we have 387,000 students, in 2020, Microsoft and Google are supporting millions of children around the world. That is, instead of replacing and underestimating what they do, let us try to seek synergies, collaborations, improve the response to students. I repeat, these Chromebook solutions, free software, are not exclusive, you can advance in complementarity and I don't think it's a fight between each other, I understand that this will progress gradually collaboratively. It's not about replacing someone who does it better than us, because the result will end up paying those less guilty of it, who are the children. Anyway, you give two arguments that are: dependence and lack of privacy. Of course, but it is that dependence in one country, in an interconnected world, is growing among all, with all, with all countries and in all respects, and that he has told me more than once in this rostrum, a 12-year-old boy, a 12-year-old girl has more to do with than a 12-year-old Japanese girl and her own mother. In other words, interdependence is leading us to greater homogenization in this respect. And, well, that dependency if it seems wrong, then let's be very consistent with it and take it to the extreme. I repeat, let's not use either Microsoft or Google here or anything that implies any kind of advanced solution in the world and keep trying to invent wheels systematically. And then they talk about the lack of privacy. Are you sure that free software does not guarantee more security and privacy than other solutions that have a long way to go in this area? Finally, I believe that we are opposing solutions that are not, I repeat, exclusionary but collaborative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u34	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Martinez Axpe, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u35	Thank you. In five minutes he won't give me the answer to all the things I've heard here, but, well, I'll try to answer a little. Before I forget, I'd like to thank Mrs. Gonzále of the Batu, for the tune we've had to agree with this half-way. I think at last with your contributions, our medium is very neat and (... That it stopped. If I thank you, I'll split. Mr. Pastor, free software here in 2012 was a huge success. And I'm aware of that. I have also been watching what has been done about this free software. And we saw some expressions of Rafa Larreina, where the Basque Country is said to be, in particular, the referee of Europe. And that made me so happy. But, klar, seeing how we are after nine years, I'd like to know a little disappointed and what happened on that road. Mr. Gil, you haven't heard me talk about technology independence. We have a digital project for the Basque Country. And then one of the main columns is technological independence. So don't worry, you'll hear me talk more. And finally, far away with the gentleman... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... talking more. And finally, far away with the gentleman. Far away, sir, I'd like to thank you. First, that middle term that we've been trying to agree to, it wasn't possible, but, well, it's been an effort, and that's an important thing to have a conversation in politics. Yes, I would like to tell you that I've discussed certain things in order to clear up a little. You said the children here must learn... , they must use the software that is used in enterprises in education. Well, for your information, the technological companies use free software to do developments rather than privative software. For your information, in data fashion. Then we show them free software from childhood, see, there's another advantage. You said, and you mentioned the Arangcha Tap, saying that free software has advantages and disadvantages. I'd be grateful to you for a single disadvantage on your shift, only one, I'm asking you to have one. I'll continue. You've even mentioned the intervention yesterday. It's funny, picking free software, talking about it yesterday. Around the mobiles, right? I've checked here... That students have to decide, right? You said yesterday, about mobile use, and today, at your third point, you will defend the solutions and technology platforms required by most schools. Whatever most people want. If 20 requests you won't give him free software, which most people ask for, right? You have the right to decide the schools by themselves about mobiles, without examining them. Give it to them and make them decide. But you don't even leave free software, because if they take it from you, you don't let it happen to your free software. I don't know. I don't know where that respect and autonomy is due to students and education community. I'm going to finish it. In the Basque Country there is a strong and stable community of free software, not only an education community, teachers and parents, but a hundred of eucalypological companies. A digitally integrated education platform is indispensable, in order to give education technological independence, to develop the digital ability of students and teachers, and become citizens who will have a digital power in the future Basque Country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. Together Podemos Ankerz, González, from there, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u37	For starters, in order, I will tell Mr Pastor that, well, he has commented that there was a deficit in the administration of free software, and in education specifically, and in that we agree. Of course there is a deficit and it is the Administration itself that has to facilitate that space for that to develop. As far as Mr Urrutia's intervention is concerned, I believe that this is a firm commitment on the part of the department to trust also the faculty, the families, the development of other systems and not just to bet on one, which is the one that hijacks the data of our daughters and children, the one that markets with them, and which is then very linked to the wonderful and enormous Strategic Digitisation Plan with which we have seen how we started the course this year, which many computers had not arrived, many others are out of date. And I know him firsthand, I have a daughter in high school that the Chromebook I bought when ESO started is no longer worth it. So that is also what this proposal is about, and that is also going to offer another alternative route to schools and teachers and families, and especially to boys and girls. Secondly, about Ejie, I think they propose, it's not written like that, but from Ejie you have to develop other capabilities to develop alternatives to private software and you have to develop capabilities also in the staff so that they can give that support. As far as Mr Gil is concerned, I love it, because it gives us a lot of ideas to discuss and discuss. On the one hand, no one has said that free software is going to be the solution to anything, imagine that it is not going to be the solution to lower classroom ratios, for example. But, yes, it will give other possibilities, and it can give them, and that is not to impose, that is not to impose, it is simply to enable alternatives, and that, I think, is what we are asking today. And with regard to the concept of technological sovereignty – it is that it has egged me because it has said windmills – there is an anonymous phrase that says that "when the wind of change blows some people make walls and others build windmills", well, these windmills are technological sovereignty as a concept. And well, and that, that other phrase is that "the wind can't be stopped, but you have to know how to build mills." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Basque Socialist, Mr. Pastor won't speak. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. I didn't say anything about middle-class, but he didn't surprise me, did he? 'Cause in the end, both of them said the same thing, or the same thing, or the same thing, or the same thing, and so on. [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... She didn't surprise me, did she? For, in the end, both of them said the same or the same things, and in such a case, it does not seem very difficult to do the intermediate. It seemed as if Mrs. González had won at depth and length, and that at the time of speed and initiative, Mrs. Martinez had won. Mr Gil, I basically agree with what you have said, but I would like to give you some nuance, especially when you spoke about our amendment. In my first speech I said that in the first point there was talk of moving forward and so on. And we were talking about being aware of what, well, a specialist on the subject had mentioned at a hearing there in April of this year in this very Parliament. It is clear that progress must be made in the implementation of the knowledge of all the agents, both teachers and students as well as centre workers, etc., etc., because we are, as I said before, faced with a situation, well, also new, but with a situation that requires a lot of prudence and security and a lot of care. And at the second point, you said you didn't understand what that mention came from. For I believe that in the second point matters such as security, such as data management, etc. are very important things and in which the field of free software is quite affected. Mrs. González, Jo, look, sometimes when I hear you talk I usually think that if we were talking about other subjects, like equality and so on, you would be quite binary, you know? Because he always makes good and bad movies. Careful, careful, there's Silicon Valley coming. Careful, careful, how about it. The good guys, the bad guys. Always the capital, like. The neoliberals. Don't, hey, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, That here I think we have to play in a smart way. That intelligent way requires that we be able not to close ourselves to any option. Of course not free software. And you mentioned in your answer an example, which is that of windmills. I really liked it. Some try to put walls and others try to put windmills. And when it's the PNV who's trying to put windmills in some douchebag, there's always one of Podemos that opposes, and Bildu. And this is a fairly generalized example for all subjects. Failures. You have mentioned a number of shortcomings that have occurred at the beginning of the course. Are you in a position to say to this Parliament that if it had been free software, those failures would not have existed? Are you in a position to say such a thing? Mrs. Martinez, you've made a list of problems, too, but you said something very strange. You said, I believe in Catalonia, Gmail and YouTube and so on. Perhaps you defend it here, too, that it should be forbidden. I'd appreciate that the Collect wants to ban YouTube, Gmail, Instagram, and everything like that, just as in Catalonia or I don't know where else to do it. Debantal. Well, look, for professional wisdom, you have more wisdom in this area than I do. But I, too, think I have advised, wisdom, knowledge, in this matter, and certainty is questionable. Yes, yes. The certainty is questionable, and the knowledge and trace of the clouds of the moon and the continuity of it, well, it is not the greatest strength of this system. And look, you said something about the centers of respect. You see, I admit all sorts of criticism, but when respect and such things compromise, i.e., if you think that you have more respect for the schools than we do for the free software, I don't know what free software you're defending, I'll tell you that you're wrong. And you wanted to give this topic an argument about the collision between free software and prior software...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u40	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u41	...made an ideological argument, and even in that practice, that you failed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u42	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Mr. Gil, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u43	Thank you, Madam President. The truth is that I did not intend to intervene, but I will do so from the seat with your permission, simply to thank Mrs Gonzalez for having confirmed that the concept of underwater technological sovereignty of wind, in which Don Quixote saw giants, indeed. I wonder who Don Quixote is. And, Mr Urrutia, to say that, in fact, we fully agree on that concept that it is necessary to move forward and move forward, above all in technological training, and I would say that especially from teachers. Yesterday, in the Committee on Education, we insisted once again on this, that is, we believe that we need to make a strong commitment to teacher training, and to technological training in particular, so that they can effectively increase the quality of teaching and adapt their subjects to new technologies. And without further ado, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u44	Thank you, Mr. Gil. [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ...since the discussion is over, we're gonna vote for EH and together we can vote for the middle-direction signed by Podemos-Nozera. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 48; the abstations are 0; white ones; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u45	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and of the Eucabertians. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 75; the 10th, 41; the contrary, 27; Abstations 7; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u46	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposition of Podemos, which is the same as that of the parliamentary Anician band, is, with one another, to bury in the mouth the covering of health, to strengthen and increase the covering of services. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Hernandez is yours to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u47	Egun on legebiltzarkideok, today we bring a non-legislative proposal for your vote or to vote finally a compromise we have reached with the EH Bildu group after an attempt to negotiate with the groups that support the government. But beyond your vote also to have in this Parliament a reflection and a debate on an issue that for Elkarrekin Podemos and United Left is important and we think that it has to play an important role in the coming years, it should play an important role in health policies, in the public health policies of our Autonomous Community. Oral health is an essential and essential part of health. I think that's where we're all sure to agree. It directly affects the quality of life of people, both because of their relationship with physiological functions of great importance, and because of their psychosocial impact. Good oral health care and good dental care are essential for optimal health and for maintaining a good quality of life avoiding various diseases in not a few serious cases. However, universal attention to oral health is one of the great shortcomings of our Health. To understand us in a very simple way, all those who are here and all the citizens of Euskadi have the right to go to the doctor at the head, we have the right to go to certain specialists if our health so requires. But not all of us are guaranteed the right to go to the dentist to have a correct oral health. A lack, therefore, which needs to be addressed. We think it is necessary to get everyone to have in practice in a real way that access to oral health. In Elkarrekin Podemos Izquierda Unita we believe that this should be an objective towards which to direct public health policies, taking the steps that must be taken on the way, of course, and taking care of the times that are necessary to advance correctly and without haste, but towards that goal, a universal, public and free oral health. We bet to expand the right to oral health to all people at all ages. And in the most immediate and concrete way also in today's initiative, we propose to start with a group that we think should not wait any longer to have the right to oral health, for the obvious and contrasted consequences that the lack of this care has on their quality of life and on the development of potentially deadly diseases, such as myocardial infarction, thrombosis and cancer. I am referring in particular to those over 65 years of age. Dental loss creates problems that promote undernutrition of the elderly. It also influences decisively and especially among women in social isolation, which is a direct cause of depression, an evil that affects nothing less than 22% of the oldest population in Euskadi, and especially, as I said, women. The most renowned geriatricians and dentists in our Autonomous Community agree that there are objective reasons for institutional effort to focus on the care of the oral health of the elderly. Poor oral health, they say, acts as a trigger for health complications that favor the emergence of life-threatening diseases and that in the long run it is much more expensive to attend to health services. We would not be talking, therefore, about spending, but about investing in the health of the people of our country. 22% of the Basque population, you know, is over 65 years old, a figure that will continue to grow in the coming years. The Basque Government, however, believes that it only makes sense to invest in the dental health of children between the ages of seven and 15. This is the result of different interventions by the former Health Adviser, Mrs Murga. And so, in our opinion, it is clear from the policies implemented, also in this new legislature by the current... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...health counselor, Mrs. Murga. And this, in our opinion, is clear from the policies implemented, also in this new legislature by the current Basque Government. We are committed to investing in oral health, with that specific objective to which I referred: that it be universal, taking the steps that must be taken. The fact that oral health benefits are not fully included in the public benefit portfolio in Euskadi, as in other territories, has also affected the health of people with a clear social class bias, since private services are often inaccessible to a large part of the population, especially those with significant socio-economic deprivation. And the public programs, which reach a very limited age range, between 7 and 15 years with the PADI, despite their good results in epidemiological terms in the evolution of the last three decades, something that is not in question and that my group – of course – has always made explicit, nor do they meet the objectives of reaching high percentages of the population, nor are they correcting the lack of access to oral health of the poorest social classes in our country. That is why, when we also put forward in this initiative the evaluation of the effectiveness of the PADI programme, it is because the evaluations carried out so far do not contain certain fundamental elements for detecting and correcting the differences in access to the programme itself for girls and boys with different socio-economic profiles. We all know that PADI is evaluated every year. We know, as I said before, the improvements in the oral health of children in the last three decades, including also – to say the least – some stagnation in the latter, which should keep the Department and the Government alert. But we also know that the percentage of girls and boys attending the programme is far from the acceptable goals and targets set by the Government itself; of course, far from other more ambitious goals. We know that caries rates are significantly worse at the lower social levels, in all age groups: schoolchildren at the most favoured social levels have half as many caries as those at the most depressed levels. But we also know, and this is not because the PADI assessments made by the Government say, because it does not say any of this, that the percentages of assistance to the programme are much lower among the most disadvantaged classes, and especially among certain vulnerable groups. Therefore, we think that the system that we have, beyond those good results in epidemiological terms for certain age ranges, and without appreciating the socio-economic differences of those who – children and children – come to it, we think that globally the system that we have seems that, far from walking towards that goal of universal oral health, is favoring instead that it is not invested in public health in this field. It is known that we were, that Euskadi was a pioneer in implementing this model of consultation with dentists and odontologists from the private sector for all boys and girls aged 7 to 15. However, we believe that this policy has also meant that little is invested in the public sector, in the improvement and extension of its dental services. And this is a debate that we believe must also be opened in this Parliament. The private sector has benefited from Basque dentistry. The concerted model is allowing the development of private dentistry, but it is also tearing the public. And that, of course, is a first-class concern for Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita. If you don't invest in public health, if you don't invest in Osakidetza, if you don't invest in developing the capacity of the public health system to care for oral health, how are we ever going to get universal, public and free coverage that would, of course, be the goal for my group? Since the launch of the PADI, the net number of dental professionals in the public sector has steadily declined. At present there are more than 900 dentists qualified by the Department of Health in more than 800 private clinics, and close to – they do not reach – 30 dentists in Osakidetza. In 2020, for every 100 boys and girls who could have attended the PADI, 60 were attended by concerted dentists; 37, which is not a low number, did not attend the review, and only 3 attended dentists from Osakidetza. Over 95 % of PADI's care is provided by private dentists in all health organizations, without any distinction. And to this, as you know, almost EUR 5 million is allocated from public budgets. On the contrary, the number of children served directly in the public consultations in Osakidetza has been steadily decreasing since the 1990s. And if this is not corrected, it will end up being completely residual, if it is not already. We also propose to open that debate to reverse that concerted model, which is why the Basque Government is also betting on this issue and which we do not share. And finally, we also seek to strengthen the activities of promotion, prevention and oral health care in all health centers and outpatient clinics in Osakidetza – we certainly agree more here – by reducing social inequalities – this is an important objective – and improving the oral health of citizens and, in particular, of minors, those over 65 and the most vulnerable. That is why we think it is necessary not only to take stock of the resources allocated to oral health, but how they are used. We think it is time to bet on public funding and provision of oral health services, because we think it is a question of equity and social justice. But we also think it is a necessity, in order to be able to advance this goal of ensuring universal oral health for all and for all in the future. We, with today's initiative, believe that no agreement has been reached because we believe that the Basque Government throws balloons, in particular, with taking steps towards oral health for over 65 years of age. We agree... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... the Basque Government throws balloons out, in particular, with taking steps towards oral health for over 65 years of age. We agree that, as proposed by PNV and the Socialist Party, that I finally believe that they have reached an agreement with the People's Party, we agree that the inclusion of these oral health services in the common portfolio of the whole State should be encouraged with the rest of the autonomous communities and with the Ministry. But here, in Euskadi, we have the perfect capacity, the normative capacity to take steps as well and implement those kinds of rights. If it is achieved in the whole state, where we, of course, will also push, and right now since our presence in the government in Madrid, it will be excellent news and it will be excellent news for Euskadi, and it will be excellent news for the whole of the autonomous communities. But we do not understand why a government led by the Basque Nationalist Party, which is often very jealous of the competences and claims that there are things that Madrid does not allow it to do, which claims that the transfer of competences is not complete, in political matters on which it can act on people's rights, we are talking about health, because it seems that it prefers to throw balloons out and to wait for this common portfolio of services to be included in the whole of Spain. We think that, if there was political will on the part of the Government, there would be enough limbs to at least open this debate here in Euskadi, and see if there was political will to take steps to expand that oral health beyond the PADI programme for children aged 7 to 15. The Basque Government can do so perfectly, in the capacity to implement programmes that go beyond what is included in the common service portfolio. Our question is, why isn't it done? This is our proposal. We call on the Basque Government to move forward on these rights here in Basque, because we think we can do it perfectly. And, above all, because, as I said at first, we think that in the coming years the right to oral health from the public should be a matter of first order in debates and policies on public health and public health. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u48	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing over the teams who were running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Cyans, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good morning. We have discussed this subject several times, both in this law and in the preceding laws. And what is required at the present time in this legal proposal is to speak in the name of the Podemos. On the one hand, we have to say, about PADI, that a program for baby teeth is in effect, and that this is a program that in 1990 has been put into force or action. And further on, it is also the end of this proposition, that it is also the business of the party to speak of the attention of grown men, and especially of those who have more than 65 years of age in this particular place. We have discussed this subject several times, as I have said, with regard to the legislature, and to the Popular party, that this is an important subject, and we may say that we have obtained extensive agreements, both in the Board of Health and in the whole meeting, when this subject is discussed. Today we may say that we have a great deal of agreement with the parts that support the government, the Juugal Party and the Socialist Basque Party. And I think it's a good deal of arrangement, and besides, if we compare it with what we have, we're making a few improvements and commitments to the Basque Mitch. I will explain the arrangement, and we can clearly explain how points are collected in our proposal, and on this side we have come to an agreement. On the one hand, he said that this issue has been discussed on numerous occasions in the Basque Parliament, it is not the first time. As a result of previous legislative initiatives by the People's Group, agreements have been reached to improve the oral care of Basque citizens, both of those over 65 years of age and PADI itself, the Children's Oral Care Programme, which covers girls aged 7 and 15. And, therefore, I think it is an issue that is of interest to Basque citizenship and to specific groups. I will go on to describe and comment on the agreement to which we have reached and the specific points to which it refers. We are talking about continuing to evaluate the Children's Oral Care Program annually with the aim of improving it. We know that this is a well-functioning programme, an annual report on this programme is being made. But also, and that is where we have introduced a second point in this compromise amendment, which was taken up in our total amendment, which is to make an express mention and to emphasize, rather, those collectives that are specifically within the... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... totality, which is to make an express mention and emphasize, better said, those collectives that specifically being within the program, within the coverage of the program do not carry out a systematic use of the same, those children between 7 and 15 years old who could make use of this program and do not do so. And, in that regard, we believe that specific campaigns can be launched, as we have already urged the Government to do on some other occasion, in relation to these children to increase the coverage of the PADI programme. On the other hand, in relation to another point that we believe is important that it is possible to expand the coverage in oral care, both in PADI and to people over 65 years of age or the most vulnerable groups, we ask the Basque Government that, together with the Ministry of Health, we already know that we have competences here, Mr Hernández, but we do understand that, in the end, we are within a National Health System. I have not been tired throughout this pandemic, as you also know, of appealing to the competences that we had in health planning and that we have understood that sometimes the Basque Government has not made an appropriate use, leaving them, without prejudice to the fact that there are aspects that were given by the agreements in the National Health Commission and in the Interterritorial Council. But, in this case, we do understand, and given that there are already open forums for debate, that there are specific reports on this subject, which is promoted within the Ministry of Health, within the Interterritorial Council itself, rather than between the Ministry of Health and the Autonomous Communities, the possibility of extending oral care within the common services portfolio of the National Health System, both for persons over 65 and for minors up to 15 years of age, and especially for the most vulnerable. We believe that this is the way, we too have, it is not the case of Podemos especially, but we have responsibilities in other autonomous communities and, in this sense, to the extent possible, we would like to see, in order to ensure that there is some equity in the oral care given to all Spanish citizens, this issue can be dealt with as it is already being done, in fact, in a common body and where I believe it is good that it goes hand in hand with all the autonomous communities without prejudice, I mean, to the specific competences of each of them, as it is also done when implementing other programmes or the coverage of certain services. And, on the other hand, it seemed important to us, and it was also taken up by the groups that support the Government in its total amendment, a specific reference to promoting healthy lifestyles, for the prevention of oral diseases, and also with the emphasis, which is important to us, a special reference to the elderly and the most vulnerable groups. I don't see much difference, and I think it's possible to get a more extensive agreement and to have other groups in this agreement. But, according to his decision, they are at last not in this agreement, but for us, we believe, a positive agreement. And that's why we're going to give him our permission or our help, and, well, not just that, but we signed it. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u50	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Protect the EH team, Mr. Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u51	Good morning. Congresswoman, members of the legislature, good day or noon. Well, we're here to talk about PADI on this point, and I'd like to go back to the past a little bit, wouldn't I? Even as Mrs Garrido said in the creation, it's given on April 24th, 1990, and according to the latest report that she was introduced to the Medical Committee in May 2018, she had three stages, right? : The program planned for 87-90, which was written from 90 to 98, and after 98, the program was already developed in a state of state or development, and was already stabulized? According to this report, the end for 2020, that is, last year, was two: on the one hand, to get the number of 75% children, and on the other, to be free of the year after 12, 80% of the joke. And the level of filling, well, we see it wasn't 100 percent, because after all it's come to 66% of its inserition. And besides, in the last ten years, not up or down, because he keeps his data, right? It's stable. And, on the other hand, as far as the joke is concerned, well, yeah, yeah, but I think we got it on a 76%, about 78%, near 80%. If we compare it with other countries in Europe, as far as a joke is concerned, then we're on the top of it. Many other countries are better than most of them: France, Portugal, Greece, and almost all. The plan, at the same time as the health plan, was continued between 2013-2020, and we questioned them this year at February 2021, and the medical department at the 16th of February gave us an answer, we learned that memory, in memory of the plan, was being reviewed by the Medical Department. Today, on September 30th, I think we haven't heard of it yet. So we're backing out. But, as we believe, this discussion has come at this moment, it's a routine, it's in time, because it's time to make a new plan... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... So we're backing out. But, as we believe, this discussion has come at a good time. He's a Pertinent. He's on time. In the end, because it's time to make a new plan and, after all, we're going to have to think about it because we need to see what improvements can be made. We think it's time for the Basque People to make a strong advance, but it's time, after all, that's 30 years of this program and because in 30 years society has changed and changed. According to the rating on the planet, it seems to be in a state of state that has been played on top of it and maintains itself in it. And that's why we think we should take another turn. And it seems to us that this just proposition, and that which Podemos has proposed, is at once at hand in time. And therefore we have obtained the medium with them. It's 30 years, 30 years, things change a lot. And I think, and we think that if we say that we will all agree, we have little connection with the society of 1.99 years, and 2021. And it's important that public services should be implemented, that they go to improve, and that they increase the sanitary reopening or increase the health structure is important. That's why, on guard-mouth, prevention is important, but, as we believe, it's not enough right now in 2021. And, as has been said, there are positive and adequate examples that have advanced. In Scotland, for the inferiors of 26 years, he's installed an integrated dental service in the summer of this year. And in Argentina, in a country with less economic resources, there is an Argentina Sonríe program. And it's curious and interesting. It's interesting how they manage their health there. They have an integrated program, or an integrated one, which takes up all the ages, has a special plan for each age with its proper aims and contrivances, and considers specific collectives... As Mr. Hernández has said, that those who have least knowledge, or who have the most pretorical life, are often living in a worse condition, and offer special services or schemes to all these specific collectives, who live in agriculture or have less economical resources, or have less economical resources, or prisoners, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., and so on. And then they put these plans in the health community. In the schools they promote plans, and teachers form others. In that sense, we think it's an opportunity to step forward today's discussion. And therefore, at first, we have been astonished to see, whether the addition of the whole was produced by PSE, which supports EAJ and Government. And in the end the middle of the PP is reached at the same time. Because we think it's 90. At ten, 90, he agreed that it's only a continuation of that. And we believe in this discussion that it is time to take another step this time in 2021. It seems to us you have entered into this last half-way, and some intentions in this agreement. But it seems to us that they are only plans. And besides, this appears to us to be also from a Basque point of view, and that as this Comrade and Government are competent, we have no need to wait for the interinstial table in Spain, or to expect to improve the conditions of our fellow-citizens here. We don't think there's any ambition in this point that you're going to make today. And although people say many things, this has become an empty message here. I'd be glad if you'd present the ambition of this government in social policies in the development of gigantic infrastructure, failure, and gas exploitation. Because I miss the ambition of this government in social policy, in health, and I would like it to have the same strength, the same ambition, the same... the same momentum you demonstrate with cement-based projects. The world has changed since 1.990. Some of us were hardly children in those days, but many worlds have changed. And that's why politics and principles should be changed, too, or projects. And it seems to us, in that sense, that it is time to extend the program into the ages. Because the underlying children are also joking, because they have infections in their mouths, because they have nerves touched, and they must answer them. And what's gravity now is that we're all going from private property, but there are a lot of private families that can't afford that. And to give all these people a solution is inevitable. In this sense, we believe, there is also time for the universalization of this service which many families cannot afford, and we ought to take advantage of it also. PADDI service is short, short. And I think we all agree on that. To offer this service for seven and 15 years is a short cut. The ages should increase, and those who do not have economic resources ought to universalize the service, and not only work for prevention. We believe in the future service should be public and universal to all. But this other, as a first step, seems interesting to me, or interesting to us. That's why some of us might not be far away today. But, I think, there have been, at least, two plannings. A plan to continue to follow the usual, that is to follow that decree at 1,990. And, on the other hand, what we have set up here is to advance a step. And something which is not now established as right, whether it be to make mouths and teeth permanent, or to become right. And that's why we're part of it. And that's why we agreed with Poseidon. Because I understand that we are to improve the life of the citizenry. And, for our part, we demand the government ambition, ambition and return to the lead platoon, work for excellence and continuous improvement. And for this we understand that the current programme does not cover the needs of the citizenry. As I have said, there have been here two examples: It was agreed to continue with it in 90 or take another step and take the development of a new program in order to be really sure of it as health and right. We'll continue this way, because we think the discussion of the next few years is the area where the health systems have to be grafted... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... The steps to make sure she's safe. We will continue this way because we believe in the discussion of the next years that this is the area where the health systems have to be grafted in. And, well, we'll continue our discussion and try to find some agreement that we haven't found today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u52	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Just as there are two paths, but that path will be one of those that we have set a goal for a long time and we are still on track to achieve it, and to give results and select the problems of citizenship with the perfectly clear direction, with the set course, without stopping at a single moment in achieving what we here, in this very House, have committed ourselves to, and the direction of others, which they do is to change every position legislature and raise new issues, even with the agreements that have been signed in this House with themselves. I believe that we have done a sincere exercise from the beginning in trying to reach agreement in this area, because there are important coincidences in the field of oral health. The problem is that there are times, that I don't know why, there are those who try to find the difference, when it would be much better for Basque citizenship that has put us here to look for the point of agreement. And I believe that the fundamental coincidence in this area is precisely that we have made progress over time and have been incorporating all political groups into the reflection of the need to progressively incorporate oral health into our public health system. And that has not been the case from the beginning, we just need to see the debates in this House and in any other House. There is a common principle of agreement that I believe is what we would have to bring to the fore. But it is also that this coincidence is not new, we have seen it in previous legislatures, isn't it?It is true that this is the first time that we have spoken in this legislature of this subject, but in the previous legislature, in the previous legislatures it has not been so and we have been expanding the consensus. I'll come back to this later. PADI has been mentioned, and in Euskadi we were pioneers with PADI. And that I think is something we all have to admit that in that dental care program for children between the ages of 7 and 15, and I think it is an example of success. And when something is done right, it must also be said, that 76% of children under the age of 12 were free of caries in Euskadi by 2020, I think it has at least to be defined as positive, as positive. And if it's a success, it doesn't mean there's nothing to improve on, because then we'd die of success. Of course we have things to improve and implement and in that we are, in that we are socialists and in that we are. In the past legislatures, in addition to talking about children, there has also been talk of those over 65 and of vulnerable people. And in that past legislature there were agreements. And if we go to those agreements and we catch them today, what we'll see is that they're being implemented. Therefore, the first thing that draws my attention to is that when an agreement that is signed sets a course, a change of course is now called for with regard to what has been agreed. One of the most important points of these transversal agreements in which EH Bildu was not in the last legislature was to urge the Basque Government, together with the Government of Spain and within the Interterritorial Health Council, to reflect on the system's portfolio of common services in the field of oral health. And it's getting done. And we're doing it. If you take point by point what was approved in the last legislature, it is being done. And that's what we're doing, by the way, is that that's what we also collected in the government agreement between the Socialist Party and the United Podemos, which includes drawing up an oral health plan that sets out the benefits provided by the National Health System. We are doing this, in April 2019 a specific action is included in the Strategic Framework for Primary Care; we are doing this, in February 2020 we are informing the Congress of Deputies that an analysis is being carried out with the autonomous communities to determine the priority aspects to be incorporated and the assessment of the budgetary impact, and that a new portfolio of oral services will be developed for what we will require consensus between the autonomous communities and follow the established procedure; and July 2021, publication of the public consultation of the draft Ministerial Order amending the Royal Decree 1.030/2006, which is precisely the portfolio of common services that, I think, I recall that, in its Annex II, is where oral health is discussed. Therefore, the socialists believe that oral health is true that it is a matter pending in the field of public health in our country and, moreover, it has many derivatives and has many consequences for the health, in general, of our citizens and citizens. Moreover, it marks obvious inequalities, and that is true, Mr Hernández, it marks such a clear inequality between those who can pay it and those who can't pay it and that, even when you're not the bad luck that the company you trust won't shut you down, as we've seen with Dentix, et cetera, et cetera. And because it's a... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... the bad luck that the company you trust won't shut you down leaving you at the stake, as we've seen with Dentix, etc., etc. And because it is an inequality, we Socialists are absolutely committed to eradicating it and bringing it to an end, simply and simply. And we have agreed to progressively introduce oral care into the public health system, and we are looking for consensus with the autonomous communities, but it is a political decision that we have taken and that we will comply with, no doubt. But we will fulfill it without deceiving anyone, knowing that this is going to be progressive and that this is going to be consensual; because asking everything and now it is very simple, the role holds everything, but the reality is that this is going to be a progressive incorporation, we all know it. We believe that if we have not reached a broader agreement today, it is because we have not wanted to reach that broader agreement, because, in essence, I believe that everyone who is sitting here knows that what is going to happen is what I have just pointed out to you. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u54	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mrs. Laruri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, good noon to all. Today we are discussing a non-legislative proposal on oral health services in which no agreement has been possible with the proposing group or with EH Bildu, despite the important and sincere effort that we have made on our part of Basque Nationalists with the Socialist Party and, even, the disposition, the full readiness of the Government. And we, of course, have made some important divestitures of what was our starting position, of our initial position. We have offered a dental review, the possibility of evaluating or establishing a dental review at the age of four, of further improving, driving, that portfolio of services that we believe is the first step, including an express mention to facilitate regulatory development. But, well, as the proposing group and EH Bildu have wanted to stay in their initial maximalist positions and have not moved anything regarding their initial, because the agreement has been impossible. We all know that this is not possible, no agreement can be reached. We are aware that there is room for improvement, and that is what we all agree on, but here we need a balance between what is desirable and what is possible, especially when we are talking about issues that have repercussions, which have added or matched important economic commitments. And, well, what has been seen here today is that it was wanted, that they wanted to keep, these two groups wanted to keep the discourse of the essences. And, well, if that was the goal, the speech, a partisan and essences discourse, then perfect, but, of course, it cannot be said that you have come here today to move forward, to want to move forward, to reach agreements and to continue to move forward in this public service of oral health. Thus, we, doing a very realistic and responsible exercise between what is possible and what is desirable, have managed to reach an agreement with the People's Party-Citizens, thanking Mrs Garrido for her willingness. And our premise is always the same: technical justification, a scientific technical basis, and economic sustainability from public funding. As has been said, these issues were discussed in the last parliamentary term in the Health Committee. There were, in particular, three non-legislative proposals, which are now more or less made in one, in which there were important agreements, which we continue to value today because, as Mr Rico has said, we understand that it was a starting point, a follow-up, a milestone, and that today we could have continued to make progress in that direction. But, well, he didn't want to. The agreements were also with Elkarrekin Podemos, who at that time was also the proposing group, it is true that they were other people. But, well, today it seems that he has wanted to change course or stay in a more essential discourse, I don't know, as a fundamentalist. I refer to, not to repeat absolutely everything, I refer to my interventions on that occasion, to the minutes, to my interventions on May 10, 2017 and June 7, 2017, in interventions related to oral health. With all due respect, but, well, not to repeat everything as much as possible, although, of course, today we are updating what is new or what is added in relation to that occasion. And also say, well, because you wanted to, well, because the goal was also a debate on the model. I also believe that these debates, and such sectoral debates, probably the forum, and with all due respect, the most appropriate forum may be the Commission, but, well, one comment. So we have not been able to do what we were offering and have remained in our amendment with the agreement with the People's Party, well, because we propose to continue to evaluate the effectiveness of the PADI annually, with the participation of professional and representative actors in the sector. Everything has already been said, but, well, we all know that the PADI, Children's Dental Care Program, because it was a pioneering program in Euskadi, which began in the 1990s, which caters to children between 7 and 15 years old, but that its impact is not only for that age group, but it is understood to be a lifelong impact and, in addition, affects different generations. Today, the first generation that enjoyed or was able to enjoy PADI is 38 years old, and is considered on a technical or scientific basis because this generation is healthier than the previous ones. And, here, also highlight that the Basque Government's commitment to this public funding, because let us not forget that it is always public funding, because it has been permanent. And it is also essential now, if we can, to highlight it in times of crisis such as those we have experienced. As we know, PADI is evaluated annually in an annual report, and it is also a participatory evaluation, it is not an isolated evaluation of the Government, the Department of Health, but it is already done in a participatory way with... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... in an annual report. Moreover, it is a participatory evaluation; it is not an isolated evaluation of the Government, the Department of Health, but it is already done in a participatory manner with the most representative actors in the sector. We believe that this annual report is complete. However, well, there is always room for improvement in evaluations. Its effectiveness is assessed. And even though it's very complete... I mean, Mr. Hernandez said there was a lot of data missing. I understand it's very complete. But, well, there's always room for improvement. And, of course, it's on it. In any case, the last report, the 2020 report, the data for that exercise, and despite having been a pandemic exercise, in which we all know that attendance at consultations and others have been affected, the data have been very good. There's been... Its efficiency, effectiveness is demonstrated. 94% of the 15-year-old population in Euskadi has passed... has used the program. It is true that annual use is lower, the percentage of annual use is lower, which is about 62... well, 62.71 % exactly. But here the important thing is to see... It may not have been used in a specific year. And, of course, the target is 75% and it is not achieved. But here the important thing is to highlight or combine these data, that 62 with 94%, which is the total period during which this program can be used. And here we are at the head of the autonomous communities. Another thing is that we continue to insist, and we have included this in our agreement, that we continue to insist on campaigns to ensure that this programme is used more within the population because it has access to it. And, on the other hand, another very important indicator... And this is very much in summary, because, of course, the annual report is very long, but well, here extracting some of the most significant data. As far as the cavities-free population is concerned, we already know that it is... in boys of 14... boys, girls of 14 years of age, 74% cavities-free, compared to 18% when the program started. Thus, the results of the programme or the impact on the health of the general population is evident. And, on the other hand, we in our amendment say... We call for the expansion of this portfolio of services to be encouraged within the framework of the Inter-Territorial Council. A step has already been taken here, it has been expanded... that is, it has reached a consensus document that includes some of the... the possibility of applying new benefits, e.g. in the child population, in pregnant women, over 65 years of age, people in cancer processes, people with disabilities. And obviously you're not... here you're not giving up any competition and it's not a lack of will. But we all know, and you also understand, Mr Hernandez, that the logical step is that it is first included in the portfolio of... in the common portfolio and then we'll develop it. Obviously there is not going to be a renunciation of competences or a political content of wanting to unify or that renunciation of competences. And, on the other hand, we insist on improving, to continue promoting Community actions in the promotion and prevention of education, because we understand that the trend must be prevention rather than reparation. And so, in this respect, well, since important actions are already carried out, some more... with greater... more, more simple ones, but well, they are already done. And well, the agreement that has not prospered offered, as I said, a four-year review, linked to the proper pediatric review. That, well, even if this point did not prosper, for obviously the Department of Health will continue to make progress in it. And then, what turns out... What is, of course, inconceivable is to go to 100% of what you are asking for, is to go to 100% coverage in the stripes you are asking for from night to morning. That is inconceivable at the moment. Another issue is that we continue to make progress on the path we have said on the common services portfolio, which is clearly on Euskadi's side. But what is not possible is suddenly, from night to morning, to want to implement everything, when it has very important economic commitments. And as for the private public system, well, here the system is... the coverage that is given is public, even if it is managed in a way... with private collaboration, the system... the services continue to be public. And well, in the end it is a debate that takes the ghost out of privatization again because it does not proceed. And that's it. Progress is evident and the department will continue to improve continuously. I'm sorry. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Passing the teams that don't run, Mistto. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to you all again. Today we are voting in favour of the compromise amendment tabled by the groups supporting the Government and the PP-Citizens, because it is the one that is most in line with what we have been advocating since Vox. In particular, to move towards equal health care throughout Spain, to form a homogeneous portfolio of services throughout Spain and to ensure that the level of this also oral health care is of the highest possible quality at any point in Spanish geography. We believe that the National Health System's portfolio of services is a good tool to homogenize services and services and to ensure that all Spanish citizens can benefit from this. We also agree on the study of the real possibilities of incorporating oral care for children up to 15 years of age, over 65 years of age and, of course, vulnerable groups. Considering that it would be a positive initiative, that it would have an impact... that would also have an impact on a better dental health of the population. But taking into account, yes, the time of deep crisis that we suffer. The impact of the expansion of the public sector on both the population and the administration and the social and economic sectors involved should therefore be taken into account. And, of course, we bet, of course, on the constant, permanent evaluation of any service. And we think, and besides, it's something we insist on, that... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Involved. And of course, we bet, of course, on the constant, permanent evaluation of any service. And we think, and it is something we insist on, that we continue to do so in the future. We therefore add Vox's vote to this compromise amendment because we consider it a good proposal for Basque citizenship. That being said, with regard to the proposing group and the group that has supported it as Bildu, we believe that we must be vigilant because of its insistence on casting doubts on private initiative, as is usual, by encouraging and amplifying a biased view of what it represents in a country like Spain, in which the welfare state is also largely based on the activity and commitment of entrepreneurs and self-employed people, that is, in the private sector, which is why we believe that it is profoundly unfair that private initiative also needs support and recognition. What can we say about the Basque Oral Health Act. We are surprised, even more coming from a party that forms the Government of Spain as Podemos, that in view of the gallery defends its status as a national, but in reality in this House it is always on the independence side, insisting on the differentiation between Spaniards and not equaling us all in terms of health. We will always support initiatives that go in this direction, and on this occasion we consider positive this compromise amendment which focuses on national coverage and on something as important as oral health. There is a common agreement, Mr Rico, and the common agreement is that we all agree that oral health is very important, but of course there is no common consensus agreement with all groups, as you have said, that is not true. In this we have laziness and also notorious shortcomings in this House. It is true that no broader agreement has been reached, but do self-criticism and think, because it is not always the fault of the other. Here does not play the ideology or the partisan discourse, we agree, here right now plays the oral integrity of the entire Basque society and I think that at that point the conversations are really important, leaving aside the ideology a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u58	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing on the answers, together Podemos-Nokerz, Mr. Hernandez is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u59	Well, there's no change of position on the part of Elkarrekin Podemos and United Left on this issue from the past legislature to this one. And I also had the opportunity to chat these days with our beloved (?), which, as you know, was the parliamentarian of our coalition who carried these issues in the previous legislature. And also by reviewing what the comrade said, we maintain the same positions and the same speech, we have reached agreements on time, agreements that we ratify, we do not fall from those agreements. Agreements, as has indeed been said, at the initiative of our coalition which has been promoting concrete issues for improving oral health care in Euskadi. But to reiterate ourselves in the agreements when a group like ours brings an initiative, you will understand that for Elkarrekin Podemos and United Left is not enough. We can sign and confirm the agreements over and over again, but I think that would make no sense, which makes sense to bring back to Parliament, and we think that yes, the plenary is a good place to discuss one thing or another when it is meant to be important and important, and we want to give importance and importance, as I said in my first speech, to oral health in public health in the coming years, because we think that it is a deficiency that we have and I believe that it has also been shared by some of the groups that support the Government. And we don't stay in any essence, in fact, our initiative is far from being an initiative of essence. It proposes specific issues that I can understand that are ambitious, indeed, and that I can understand and that I have said so, that there are issues that it is not possible to apply overnight, as Mrs Larrauri has explained, and I was certainly prepared to talk about those issues. No one has offered to speak about the implementation of oral health care to over 65 years of age gradually in Euskadi. You refer to and derive it from those agreements at the state level, agreements that, as I say, I do not only fight, but my coalition will defend. In that we agree, and a common portfolio for the whole state we will always agree and we will always defend and we are doing so. But in Euskadi we can also make progress in starting to guarantee these rights gradually and in this particular case we proposed it to people over 65 for a very specific issue, because dentists, experts, are telling us that this group needs that attention today that maybe 30 years ago it did not have that much need, but that today it does. That is why we think, Mr. Rico, that to demonstrate that road map that you say you share towards the goal, and I have talked about public, universal and free oral health, we understand that we share that goal, it is my question. And I believe that in order to move towards that goal we must prove it with facts. I believe, and so I have said, that the policies that this Government is currently pursuing do not go forward in this direction, because they maintain what is available. They keep PADI as it is for the moment and there is no progress on any other matter beyond waiting to see what we do with the rest of the autonomous communities and with the ministry. That's why we don't stick to the essences. That is why we cannot reach an agreement that we would certainly have liked. I would have liked to get out of here today saying: well, I have brought an initiative and there will be progress in oral health because I have reached an agreement with the parties that support the government, but there was none of that, there was nothing concrete at the moment. And we think we have to prove it with facts. Our criticism of the PADI has been very clear and we did so in the previous parliamentary term as well. We recognize the results of the PADI over the past 30 years and point out what are the shortcomings and which I believe we share, to point out what are the deficiencies. We believe that not enough is then done to correct them, which is why we believe they are missing. I have read the 2020 report and there are no elements to know exactly where those collectives are... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... We believe that not enough is then done to correct them, which is why we believe they are missing. I have read the 2020 report, and there are no elements to know exactly where those vulnerable groups we then say, and you have agreed, that certain campaigns are going to be conducted. And I think the crux of the matter is that we cannot move forward today, at least in this proposal that we were bringing, I think Mrs Larrauri has said: economic resources, economic sustainability. In the end we always end up talking hard, I think that's what's behind it. We are aware that this requires an economic effort and are willing to talk about an economic effort. But first we'll have to see, do we want to? And then let's see what it costs and how we implement it gradually according to the cost. Because when I go out to the street, I get a lot of attention, of course this has an important cost, but when I see in my neighborhood that 13 million euros will be spent on making a new puncture at the entrance of Donostia, when I see that about 5 million euros will be spent on rehabilitating the island and placing the famous sculpture, because I wonder...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u60	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u61	These kinds of issues we know require a lot of investment, but they are fundamental. Oral health. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u62	Thank you. 'Essalka Popular-Ciudados mustn't speak.' Protect the EH team, Mr. Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u63	Thank you. In this second speech there are so many things to say, and so little time. Well, I have the feeling that this government often lives from the past, from the battalions of when we were pioneers and pointers. But we were, we were, that you can't live on the rents, that we are in 2021, that the PADI Programme is 1990. Ez dakit, Eta Gero Entzuten Diot Ricori, to Mr. Rico, who is being made. Well, if it's being done, I think we could have written it down and reached an agreement on the transactional, right?, that we haven't arrived. And we have not arrived, and it is not that we have not arrived, but the last proposal that, the only proposal I received that included "analyze", not "incorporate", but "we will analyze the implementation in the four-year review". "We'll analyze." Then, about the commitments we will continue to analyze, we will observe, we will see, we will see. I understand that this non-reviolent commitment from our opposition and the majority of you, but it guarantees us no security. Eta zuk hemen, Larrauri andrea, esan duzu "important assignments and review at the age of four", bath, hitzez hitz, analyzetu eta aztertuko zenutela bere inplementazioa zenuten. And then, Mr. Hernanndez, he's got it. I think, for the numbers I've seen, I might make a mistake, but it's a $5 million euros cost. I believe that this government has enough muscles, if it were to take it for a priority, to make a progress here. And we're not going from zero to 100. We're ready to do it. But it seems to us that people who are the most vulnerable are thousands of families, because they don't belong to this service nowadays, because they don't fill the PADIs, and we all agree that we must go into private areas and many can't pay for it. And that's a fact. So we're not going to have to be public at first, and that it has to be universal, but at least let's put the means in order to get those holes covered. And we didn't notice that he was, that he was, that he was, that he was, wasn't he? And, on the other hand, I don't know about this, and together with Podemos there's a few months more than PADI's, and now he's introduced, but we're on the subject and I'm in touch with the promoter of Argentina Soníe program. And when he read the Decree of the PADI here, he spoke literally "que es un mediceval" program. We think it's time, now, in 2021, to make a step forward, which is what we wanted to put on the table. And besides, we think it's possible to get out of our car and get out of here. Then, well, we're sorry we couldn't make a deal. And later we see what you will agree or what they will vote for your proposal, and when I hear that "homogenezar servicios, poblacion, coercion necional and Control del gasto" I know that our refusal is perfectly reasonable. What has been said is a subject of care and health in the political diary, because it seems to us and we know it, and because all reports say it affects health. And since he's going to be in the diary for the next few years, at least from us, we'll continue to work to make this resistance universal. Step by step, level, anything you want, okay, we'll find them. But we believe, of course, that to improve this resistance we ought to make more money, but we should be inclined to speak to a government which will be ready for us in proportion as it is the privilege of making money for us, and to arrive at consent; because we think it is the right of investing here in persons and in health and well-being, and of enjoying other things, and of which this government has a first degree, we ought to be able to pass to a second level. This is not possible today, I hope in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u64	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Well, it's fun to see some of the issues that have been said here, because the only thing that allows us to do is to ratify the first idea with which I started my intervention, and it's that if we haven't reached a broader agreement today, it's because there are people who have wanted to reach that agreement... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... because the only thing that allows us to do is to ratify the first idea with which I have started my intervention, and that is that if we have not reached a broader agreement today, it is because there are people who have not wanted to reach that agreement. Point. Point. Because there is a principle of reality that we all share. Of course, you can come here and say, "Of course, they come with the cost." Yes, it is that I would like to have that wonderful lamp, or the magic wand that you have, so as not to worry too about, in fact, the budgetary implications that things have. Eye, that's the really fun thing: that they don't care here. Because, then I go to the municipalities that govern, to the governments they are in, and they do care. They do care there. Mr Hernández, EUR 49 million we have put in the previous budgets for Spain as a whole for this programme. And if we compare it with the budgetary sphere, it is not all the broad that you and I would like to see, but we know that this is the first step that the Spanish Government has taken to deal with this. And there you defend him with passion, like me there and here. Because I've told you before. It's just, there's something that's fundamentally changed, and that's the principle of agreement that I think we all had. And there is a global vision, there is a joint vision of all the representatives of this House, and of all the representatives in all the chambers, that oral health is an outstanding subject. And that's not what many political parties thought ten years ago, huh? And that's the principle of agreement, which I think is what we have to be happy about. Obviously, you can't go from 0 to 100 in a year, in two years. I'm not going to wear it, because I don't have any magic wands to draw money or magic balls to see the future, but we all know that this is going to be achieved progressively, gradually. And if in Spain there is a left government during all these years, it will go faster. And if there are parenthesis, it will cost us a little more. But this is going to include health coverage, because it is a question of justice. And we have all accepted that it is a matter of justice. What it's about, I think, is not to come here and change the course a little bit to ask, "Well, I'm asking for everything now." No, if the course had been very well set in the last legislature. If when agreement was reached on the scope of 65-year-old coverage, the third point of that transactional amendment clearly spoke of where we had to act, and was to go with the Government of Spain to the Interterritorial Council. Well, I've made you the relationship, I've made you the relationship of the steps that have been taken. It's what we're doing, but because it's serious. It's just that when last year's legislature we agreed with Elkarrekin We can, we did the serious thing, we did the logical thing. If we talk again in this legislature, possibly talking about oral health, I would like what happened today to put it a little in parentheses. Let's put it in parentheses. And let's go back to a situation that I think is well-directed. Really, I think it's well-directed. The PADI, Mr. Iriarte, we need to improve it. Indeed, but as it has begun, as it has been improving since the 1990s. And we've been incorporating, we've been performing, we've been reporting that more and more minors are coming to that program. And how to keep doing it, obviously. Obviously. And if there is one element that I do want to highlight, also of coincidence, because in this it is sometimes important to introduce ideological aspects, and that is what I say, isn't it? PADI is a model of success. And it's a model of success that we share and that we're proud of, because we've been a part of forever. But what we're talking about now is integrating oral health into the public; it's another step. It's a complicated step, as you know, but we're going to take it. We're not talking about a PADI scheme, no. We are talking about something else that takes a lot (...). And that's what we socialists are in. That's why I was telling them that without fooling anyone, without saying that this is going to be fast and running, in what we are committed to is integrating oral health into the portfolio of services from the public. And that's what we socialists are in. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u66	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mrs. Laruri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u67	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Mr Hernandez, the agreement was not going to be possible today. That is, nothing offered by us, what we can offer – as I say – with a technical basis and with a sustainability that is realistic, with a financial economic sustainability from the public, nothing was to be possible. It has been offered, a great effort has been made to offer a review, to advance from 7 to 15 years, to advance a review to 4 years. Evidently, he put on, put on analysis... make a protocol, analyze to make a protocol that leads to a review of within four years. And then, in the event of a problem, it turns to a specialist, whom we also realized to be a dentist within the primary care of Osakidetza. Because some other group, you, EH Bildu, talked about specialists in general, which could also be a private one, right? There, of course, a great step had been taken. But, obviously, to say that it is done, as you will understand, Mr Iriarte, you have to say how. How. So, that was protocol. I mean, you can't throw, you can't throw, you can't say "review." And then, the next day, the pediatricians say, "And I, how do I do it?". Don't you? I mean, that previous step, of course, was protocol. And there it was offered. And, of course, Osakidetza is taking steps in this. The Department of Health is taking steps in this. You had proposed it, but that's what you're already working on. And I think that was an important step that could have been expressly mentioned. And, of course, the Department of Health and the Basque Government do not live on rents. Here it's progressing and getting better every day. Obviously, there are many steps to be taken, but neither the Basque Government nor the Department of Health nor Osakidetza live on rent. The PADI, of course, actually started or started in the year 90, but, man, since the year 90, there have been many improvements in that program... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... rents. PADI was, of course, launched in the year 90, but, man, since the year 90 there have been many improvements in that programme. There is an increasing annual economic envelope, which has been increasing when it has been possible, that is, that it is not stagnant, that it is still in progress, another thing is that it was obviously launched in 1990. And my "medieval," well, that you say someone told you it's medieval, I've talked to experts who, of course, I'm not, and they say it's a successful program, pioneer, to copy, which, in fact, all autonomous communities have. Well, it'll have room for improvement, but man, that's medieval... And, Mr Hernandez, the issue of coverage. Steps are indeed being taken and the first step we understand is, and a very important step has been taken, a consensus document has been reached within the Inter-Territorial Health Council. Well, the state, but it is logical to reach a minimum point that the autonomous communities will then be able to develop and, of course, Euskadi will not renounce its competences. But those are common minimum bases that can be set, because you already know the consequences it has and how that is the logical step. First, there are already those steps or all possible benefits include those over the age of 65, as I have also said, pregnant women, people in cancer processes who are undergoing cancer processes and many other collectives. And then there will be a point of decision and of an effective economic valuation, we always go to the economic, it is that that cannot be denied, that cannot be said or ruled out. No, of course, let's do it. Man, we are going to do it, but we will have to have a base or a livelihood, we will have to have made a prior economic analysis of what the obligation that is being acquired entails. And, of course, there we are, there we are, there we are 65 years old and there we are going to move forward, but what you cannot do is what you propose in your amendment, in your proposal, to agree with Bildu 100% coverage and those intermediate steps that they were willing to take, because they did not tell us, of course. You have said, this is the proposal; we have tried to move forward and you have never said that you could take or talk about intermediate steps. And, well, as for the private and public, the concerted system has been a success. Another issue is, as Mr Rico says, that progress is being made in integrating oral health into primary care, and that is where it is, but at the moment the agreed system works, has its advantages and therefore the services are no longer public. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Mist must not speak. So, when the discussion is over, we'll vote together Podemos-Nozzer Antherz and the middle-direction that the EH Collector has signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given in the meeting, 73; the votes given, 71; the supporters of 25; the opponents, 48; abstations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u69	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we'll vote for the middle-term correction signed by the Basque Socialists and Eucabertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 70; in favour of 48; the contrary, 24; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u70	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Five point in theme list: "The other proposal of the popular organization of the Euscals-as made by the parliamentary band of Céranos, concerning the prosecution of the acts of violence with the police during the past few weeks. Discussion and final resolution. Mr. Barrio, representing the popular-Chaus team, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u71	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, counselor, ladies and gentlemen. Good. Transaction agreement: "The Basque Parliament shows its strongest condemnation of the acts of violence and confrontation with the police that have taken place in cities and villages in the Basque Country in recent weeks, and which demonstrate insolidary and incivic attitudes of certain people who disturb the coexistence of citizens, in addition to failing to comply with the health standards established as a result of the pandemic. The Basque Parliament shows its support and support for the Basque Police in the work it has been doing to ensure compliance with the health regulations dictated to deal with the pandemic caused by COVID-19." Well, we have reached this agreement with the groups that support the Government on this point and, of course, I thank Mr Atutxa, Mr Prieto, and the other group, Elkarrekin Podemos, who has tabled an interesting amendment, and then I will refer to it. We have lived and continue to live in the Basque Country for many weeks this past summer, evenings, nights, early mornings of acts of vandalism and confrontation with the Ertzaintza, the local police within the framework of botellones, illegal stays, different places. And it is now necessary for society to receive from its own representation in this Parliament a condemnation of what has happened, which is causing a lot of concern, a lot of fear, a lot of fear for neighbours in many localities, and that it is also seen to be received, which receives support from those who have been attacked, insulted by the obligation to maintain public order. We must be very strong in condemning these acts and in supporting the police. There have been scenes of violence, attacks and also unfortunately, on many occasions, we have seen a cop overflowing and having serious difficulties in making the law find its place, and, of course, we have seen those difficulties, well, when they were treating... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... difficulties in making the law find its place, and, of course, we have seen those difficulties, well, when trying to control that open and organized hostility. A situation which, of course, has been analysed and which (...) the trade union representatives of the Basque Police, because I am not going to reproduce, but it is not something that I think about in relation to these difficulties, that situation sometimes somewhat overwhelmed. But, in any case, what we have to do is support and support the work of the police, the Ertzaintza, the local police. Bilbao, San Sebastián, Vitoria, Gorliz, Portugalete, Elorrio, Gernika Plencia, Azkoitia, Deba, Galdakao, Hernani, Mundaka, among others, have been scenes where radicalism and antisocial attitudes have manifested themselves this summer, we have all seen it, we have also known it through the information that the media have given us. We have also seen mayors of towns and cities, members of the Government, the Lehendakari himself making calls, not to fill the streets with confrontation, with violent attitudes, but in many cases that radicality has responded with quite the opposite, with disdain for those proposals and those calls for coexistence, for fun, yes, but for coexistence, and of course, that is what has happened, in no response to many of those calls made by the authorities, in this case many mayors, we have seen it all in our cities and by many peoples and members of the Government present here. They're not sporadic, no, they're orchestrated incidents. There is no improvisation in most of these meetings Everything was organized, everything was premeditated, the name non fiestas has been used, man, as lowering, as in that context of dissatisfaction of the non-fiestas. We already know that what has happened was perfectly organized, illegal stays, social networks, that is, we already know, what has happened in that sense has been seen and analyzed is what has happened and what we must analyze and condemn on a day like this. That is why, in addition to this non-legislative proposal, we have put and sent to the Government a question and a request for information to assess what has happened, and I believe it is very important to know the facts thoroughly, also to assess the responsibilities of what has happened, to analyse the responsibilities, indeed, of what has happened these days. And so, the request for information that we submit to the Government, we request that incident report, of those clashes that have occurred in our cities in these months, of course, where there have been these events, the numerous people detained in connection with these incidents, (?) as a request for information and also as a question as to the assessment, I think it is important that assessment after what has happened in the department about what happened in these so-called non-festivals and where it is possible to identify what responsibilities, what mechanisms of organization, premeditation, those vandalistic acts and that confrontation seeking precisely the confrontation with the police in any case. As I said, there have been many Basque localities in which these acts of violence and clashes with the Municipal Police and Ertzaintza have occurred in recent weeks, these disturbing expressions and incisive attitudes of citizen coexistence. They have been, I repeat, in the context of those so-called " non-festivals", in those stays, in those illegal botellones in those unauthorized concentrations, where radical groups of people have promoted serious incidents. There is an important relationship of violent situations that we all know have occurred in our streets and squares, attacks and attacks on the Municipal Police and the Ertzaintza, attacks on public and private interests, violation of public health regulations and various crimes that have occurred in a systematic way, burning containers and public urban furniture, attacks on shops that we have all seen, attacks on private interests, on shops, wounded, contusioned agents, that is, in that sense there is what has happened and what we have to analyse and pronounce from this Parliament. The autonomous and municipal police have also had to carry out arrests, they have had to carry out many identifications of many radical people participating in the algaradas, in the botellones and in those illegal stays. It's clear that... and that's why our solidarity. Many agents have been injured, as I said, they have had to require health care, bruised, and in that sense, there it is and we have seen it and we are witnesses, and of course, the sentence has also come and the solidarity from the Government and it has to come on the part of all in relation to those incidents that have led many agents to emergencies or to the hospital or to the health services. We are convinced, the mark of the Abertzale Left is there, the mark of the abertzale radicality is identified in relation to these issues, the confrontation, the incidents against the Ertzaintza, against the police that represents the authority. That's not an isolated case, that's not a gang boot, that's a mark, the mark of the radicality that we all know, the mark of hatred, the mark of hatred in this case the representative of the authority, the police, the autonomous police, the municipal police. That mark is there. We are convinced of that. I would like to conclude after the agreement reached that such an approach is necessary. We consider it socially necessary in view of attitudes against coexistence, antisocial attitudes. We want to encourage social attitudes, strong respect for the rules of the game. I would like to thank Mr Martínez, who is going to speak on this round on behalf of Elkarrekin Podemos, for the amendment as a whole. Thank you to the Elkarrekin Group We can have your amendment, which basically coincides, basically, with our initiative, and with the initiative and with the agreement. Condemns violent acts and attacks on... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... basically coincides with our initiative, with the initiative and with the agreement. It condemns violent acts and attacks on the police, the support of the Ertzaintza and the local police. That is the basic and fundamental thing. The approach you make is very interesting. I believe that it introduces a number of issues, apart from those specifically, on which we need to talk, and they are part of an interesting debate. But I think it is a differentiated debate. We are currently talking about what has happened, identifying facts and trying to support or be supportive of the Security Forces. I think we can talk about the police model, because, in short, you also talk about proportionality, the need, indeed, in relation to some actions. I think that's another debate today. Or we can talk about leisure and leisure models. We can also talk about youth, about their alternatives. We have no doubt that these are very important issues. But I understand that today's message has to be clear. It has to be clear, in the sense that we have tried to promote and that the majority of Parliament has understood this way. We want to be clear in the rejection of these acts that affect coexistence. And we want to be strong in that condemnation, and also very clear, very clear in support, in solidarity, in affection for the Ertzaintza and the Local Police in their important, essential functions. They are key players in democratic coexistence and, of course, our tribute to them today as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u72	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over the teams that were running the corrections together, Podemos-Nozzerzka, Mr Martínnezion.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u73	Yes, good afternoon. We need to discuss this PP-Ciudados initiative. Young man, we believe, is the object of criminalizing in a general manner. Probably not what we see on the points of the initiative, no, but she did it for what we read, and above all for what I heard and the context she introduced. I shall now set out the position on this initiative and on this whole matter. Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita rejects and condemns irresponsible and insolidary attitudes towards COVID-19, altercations and assaults against other people and police officers who cannot, in this case, have our support. Moreover, it is their work, they do it according to the principles of proportionality and suitability. And, as always, also, at this time when the pandemic situation improves, we continue to appeal also to responsibility and collective care. I repeat, by the engagement we have with our fellow-citizens, and because they oppose our value, we reject the disturbances that have been committed in our streets, the attacks against other people and the police, and in general all the actions against collective security. In the Pandemia state, even if we are perfectly better, we must continue to take care of everyone. Throughout this pandemic we have called for collective care, for collective protection, for pedagogy, to take care of ourselves among all and among all, not only young people, who also have a minority who fail, but all people, regardless of their age. In any case, our amendment, which is more complete, we think that the agreement that has been reached comes from a reflection that we have been doing for a long time. And, after seeing images also with young people, in the city of Donosti, for example, where an Ertzaintza command called "to shoot to give" in a police performance. Therefore, we continue to believe that police actions must be carried out with the principles of proportionality, suitability and attentiveness to the protocols that are marked, if they also adhere to the principles of proportionality and suitability. That is why we believe that the police are also subject to democratic control. The police have several civic tools to maintain order and social order. And therefore the use of force must always have a last resource in any country, which at least considers itself democratic. And we look upon ourselves as democratic. And in cases where force is inevitable, it must depend on the criteria of necessity and temperance. For example, according to the codes of the civil officers who tend to execute the law approved by the United Nations, and also to follow the ethical code of the European police. And this started with a summer controversy... There are things we think that in politics, which I believe we all condemn and reject, certain statements by some leaders surprised us. And we are in a political debate. You have brought a GNP, not an institutional declaration that we could probably have agreed, as I said, on the corridor an hour ago. We were talking, for example, also on some occasions the Security Adviser, you have said now, about something organized, that there could have been something organized behind all these events. Where's the evidence? Where are the arrests that indicate that these kinds of altercations are organized? The counselor himself, in a telephone interview, later had to deny that there was no relationship, one Monday morning, there was no relationship that was found, among all the detainees, with no political formation. We are very surprised to continue at this point saying that there is a structure behind public order altercations that have passed, and are passing, in Euskadi. Some altercations that are spontaneous... At the same time that they are spontaneous, they are totally irrational in character. You have just described, Mr. Barrio, some sort of conspiracy behind this matter... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... You have just described, Mr. Barrio, a sort of conspiracy behind this matter. I do not know whether it has anything to do with the mozkorra borroka or with the Marxist negationism that was also said by the government at some point. We do not think that any of these statements are a good strategy to address this phenomenon. In this phenomenon of violence there is no political intention, there is no organization, no leadership, no demand for any political or ideological issue, but an instinctive reaction, which we reject, to police actions. And we do not share, Mr. Barrio, the statements you have made here. They seem quite irresponsible to me for their own history, for the very history of their political formation, mixing things that have nothing to do with it. And they are doing a poor favor for the peace and coexistence of this country and the suffering that many people have suffered in this country with a great deal of human rights violations. In view of this issue, we are certainly concerned about the inability of the political forces that have subscribed to this initiative and of the Government itself to try to think and analyze, understand, contextualize and solve this issue of altercations, botellones and liters. We believe that the Executive and first of all the Department of Security must have more left hand, enforce police protocols instead of pulling to give, give security, prevent, work with youth. Which has very little to do with some totally irresponsible statements that Mr. Mayor of Bilbao made yesterday: "Let's punish without mercy." Is that the message, really, that the Basque Nationalist Party wants to send to Basque youth "Let's sanction without mercy"? I think they're totally wrong. The a for them, that's the message that young people are getting, instead of working with young people to end this problem. A populist punitiveism, which reminds us of the worst time of Mayor Azkuna, and which we believe must be banished from the streets of Euskadi, and which, moreover, goes against the security pact of the Bilbao City Council signed by all the political forces of the Bilbao City Council. However, we must say that we pay more attention to police interventions than to those who cause trouble. Only when we ask the police for proportionality, we demand that they disapprove of violence against it. On the contrary, the commitment to partnership in his name. We believe that we need to keep a high eye on this issue. That's why our third point. We believe that the concrete phenomenon of this violence must be addressed at that height. From a sociological point of view, from a psychological point of view, from a point of view that also has a special impact on the mental health of young people in Euskadi, so hit by the pandemic and so hit by the structural precariousness that they are living. We are concerned that there are no prospects for the future, the lack of certainty for young people. We are concerned that the only message they receive right now from leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party is that we will sanction it mercilessly. We're worried. We are concerned that we do not seek, that we do not think, that we do not analyse the problems of the leisure model that we have at present in Euskadi, of which everyone, this parliamentarian who speaks the first also, also has his share of responsibility. A leisure model that does not understand leisure without a massive consumption of alcohol. We honestly believe that if we do not address the root of the problem in this way we will not reach any solution. And we're crazy? I don't think so. The Municipality of Iruña, Navarra Suma, has created a table with the Government, with representatives of the Youth, with the police, with hoteliers and with neighbors. Here is the only solution we have seen: we are going to increase police controls and we are going to react mercilessly to young people. Surely it is not the panacea that table, nor do I know all the details of that table, but something like that could have agreed between the three parties, and there we would have entered to negotiate and talk and dialogue with the young people, with the neighbors, with the hoteliers, with the police themselves to address this problem. Here we have heard, moreover, yesterday of a new decree also to sanction the botellones or the liters on the street. To me... It was kind of funny to us, no. Up to 25 are going to be community jobs, a precarious kid up to 25 is going to do community work, and a precarious kid 26 years old is going to have to pay a fine. We have legal doubts, but we also have political and ethical doubts through that decree. What youth needs, gure gasteriak behar duena da prekarietăren kontrako neurriak. 20% unemployment and a structural precariousness that stifles the future dreams of young people in Euskadi. To reflect on this model of leisure and this model of socialization. I ask: Are the problems of liters in the park of Doña Casilda starring young people who leave dirt not similar to the problems of liters of people of different ages who leave dirt financed with public money by everyone and everyone at the Fair of Saint Thomas in the Arenal? Or the pots on Ledesma Street, they're not the same, it's not the same problem? Is the problem of litres and mass alcohol consumption not the same as raising bonds to finance alcohol consumption? Don't we have a problem with that? A little less hypocrisy, more thinking, thinking, dialogue, agreeing on positive measures to change reality. Because, Mr. Barrio and Members of Parliament of the PNV, PSOE and PP, there's no point in...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u74	Go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u75	... It is useless to condemn reality if we do not aspire to transform it. I do not know why you are in this Parliament. To condemn reality we can condemn it all, but I think we have to work to transform it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u76	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u77	President. Ladies and gentlemen. I believe that the act we are doing today, this debate through a non-legislative proposal, is important because it serves two things fundamentally. The first, so that the institutions... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... debate through a non-law proposal, because it serves two things fundamentally. The first, for the institutions to manifest themselves – in this case, the Basque Parliament – against violence, without any doubt and without any interpretation. And the second, to close ranks with the Basque Police in the performance of their tasks and in the face of the situations they have had to live and bear, and which are absolutely irrational and unfair and therefore deserve that recognition. A recognition that goes also, and a solidarity that is also expressed, to the people who have had to suffer this violence, these episodes of violence in many cases, and who have suffered destruction, looting, disruption of their lives in their homes and in the streets and therefore also deserve all solidarity. Violence has neither categories nor justifications. Anyone who moves in the field of lukewarmness to condemn violence will find categories and justifications, and will propose debates on the debates so as not to be clear in condemning such violence. The violence that has occurred in this period, at this time, in countless cities and villages in the Basque Country, as Mr Barrio has pointed out, is not violence that has to do with young people, it is more, those who have acted there are a minority against a majority of the population, and a majority of the population, as may be the case in this case, among them the youth segment. In fact, in the statement that this Parliament will make by a majority, in the PNL resolution, there is no talk of young people, of people who practice violence, because it is not young people who practice violence, it is people who may be one age, it is people who may be another, but it is people who practice violence. It doesn't have to do with that violence either with a leisure model, the leisure model can be reviewed. And, finally, who is going to do it, who is going to do it, who is going to put things on the table, because we are going to meet a society that is organized around a preaching that has little to do with its behavior and, therefore, we are going to enter into a degree of contradictions and cynicism about our practices, which is going to be precious to see. I'd like to see anyone here who wants to discuss it. I'll give you just one example. Alcohol is a problem, because it is a toxic substance and alters behavior. We say this in a country where a type of alcohol, which is very important for the economy and even for fun, we call it food. Well, let's see how we explain to those who want to educate you about the leisure model in relation to the behaviors and contradictions that put us in politics and other things. But, finally, this is another matter, because my line of argument does not go by the justifications and does not go by the categories of violence, but goes by, in a clear and consistent way, condemn the violence and help the Basque police to do their job. And that also goes with the appeals that have also been made on some occasion with ignorance. Violent people are fully aware of what they are doing, have the capacity and a level of thought and will to commit crimes that express it in such acts of violence, and are therefore people who are capable of violence and therefore have to be able to assume responsibilities, and so that those responsibilities are not diluted to any other degree of lukewarmness, as I said. The acts of violence have to do with, without any doubt, the one that wants to put a blindfold on it, but the acts of violence in the Basque Country have to do with organized violence and the tactics employed in the use of violence have to do with organized violence. There are violent professional provocateurs in some of these actions, it is evident that it is added to a crime or violence of criminals, who take advantage of the occasion, and it is evident that it is also added to at times a clumsy evidence, which can have that a higher level of spontaneity, because well, since we are here, we do the night doing some more things. Indeed, it is a violence that has different roots, different elements, but, without any doubt, it also has an organizational component that seeks to disrupt coexistence, that seeks to destabilize, that seeks to accentuate criticism of the police model, that seeks to discredit the police itself, that seeks to provoke certain radical thoughts or attitudes to have more justification or influence or presence in the world in which we live. Therefore, the violence we have suffered must have an explicit condemnation, must have a condemnation without any kind of lukewarmness and without any sort of categorization. Therefore, the two elements that I pointed out at the beginning are the only two elements that contain the compromise amendment that we have made. And when you want to talk about other things, we'll talk about other things. But, certainly, when there has been free, unnecessary, absurd violence,... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... So we'll talk about other things. But, certainly, when there has been free, unnecessary, absurd violence, just because of the practice of violence, wanting to apply to that attenuating in relation to the leisure model, to the socio-laboral difficulties that may have certain collectives or to anything else of the multiple problems and contradictions that a society has, it is simply wanting to escape a unitary condemnation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u78	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mr. Atucha, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u79	Thank you, ma'am. First Vice President, Congressmen, all good days. The majority of the Euscalic society is observing the measures which the authorities of health have placed in opposition to the pandemy. We have all had to renounce manners, manners, and desires, to fulfil these measures. Most Basque society is strictly and responsibly observing the measures that health authorities have been implementing to combat the pandemic. We have all had to renounce many things, our customs, habits, desires in the fulfillment of these measures. But it is no less true that some and some have behaved contrary to this collective commitment to fight the pandemic. They have been and are irresponsible, incisive and intolerable behaviors which, of course, our group condemns, we strongly condemn. During the summer, and in some cases, in conjunction with the festivals of our towns and cities, a minority has violated the law of public health. And he's made a few bottles of bollocks, and in some cases there's been trouble with agents, unfortunately, in a phenomenon that hasn't happened only in our cities and villages. Neighbor molestations, destruction of private property, business, damage to public furniture and a trail of garbage that others must clean up are some of the consequences of these behaviors. Something very serious, of course, that we condemn and reject without any doubt. The most serious thing is that a few cannot put at risk the enormous efforts and sacrifices that this society has made and is doing to put this pandemic behind us. They are not a majority, but they do put the health of the majority at risk. We cannot forget all the people who have died, those who have become ill, those who struggle today to recover, in front of those other people, in front of that minority, who seems to be doing as if nothing had happened, nothing had been happening, and as without any sacrifice would have had to do this society. The Health Adviser, Gotzone Sagardui, said this very week before the Health Commission that we are doing well and we are almost well, but we cannot relax. In the discount minutes you can also lose the games and undo all the efforts made previously. No relaxation, no justification, no degree of condescension or a glimpse of justification before these facts. Mr. Martinez said "sanction without mercy." Yes, punish without mercy. What's your alternative? He said the police have to act with their left hand. What do you mean by left hand? What alternatives (from?)? What does the police have to do? Waiting for them to pass? Waiting for them to stop being like the axis of the earth? Then accompany them home? Try to reason with them? Of course. But in those circumstances you should know that it is not precisely simple work or easy task. No, it's not.)). Therefore, no relaxation, no justification, no condescension. Our police have our full support and support for the difficult work they have been doing throughout the pandemic. They're doing a professional job to better protect us all. Our police are protecting us, and they're protecting us from the entire pandemy department that's doing better to protect us. It is clear that preventive measures are being articulated to ensure that situations such as those described and experienced do not recur. Preventive measures, in particular, to prevent their reproduction. But we don't want to be naive either. It is true that this is a problem that goes beyond the police. Frankly, we do not believe that there is any magic measure, a single solution. We don't think so. Obviously, police action is and will be necessary when the situation so requires. But if you'll allow me the expression, we have to put all our batteries on. The institutions, of course. But the effort must necessarily be collective. Each and every one of us and ourselves have a role to play in avoiding these behaviors. Responsibility, responsibility and responsibility. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u80	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Passing on the line of uncorrected teams, Mistya, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to you all again. As all the parliamentarians here know, among other things because we never bite our tongue, Vox frontally rejects any violent manifestation, come from wherever it comes from. And in the streets of our cities and also of some villages we have witnessed altercations... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ...any violent manifestation, come from wherever it comes from. And in the streets of our cities and also of some villages we have witnessed absolutely unjustifiable altercations and miscarriages, for which they are primarily responsible, who provoked them, who participate in them. Therefore, go ahead with the condemnation of Vox, of my group, in the face of such incidents without adjectives, without any form of palliative. I do not share, Vox does not share this excessive tendency to throw balloons out, to treat the neighbor, to transfer the neighbor, forgiveness, own responsibility, to shake the blame by referring to social models and leisure models as the primary cause of violence on the streets. A few weeks ago, after many months of pandemic, the Basque Government, through its president and its health and safety advisers, solemnly declared the war on the botellones; it warned that it would monitor the calls for such meetings with frankly discouraging results, as we have seen, so, to start with a bit of self-criticism would not be much more. Also because the botellones have never been legal, nor were they before the ongoing health crisis broke out, and it has been allowed to do without blush, without accountability, without debugging responsibilities, and it would be necessary to do so if we talked about the police actions at these concentrations that have ended as the Rosary of Aurora. I will not question the concrete actions of the agents of the Ertzaintza and of the local and municipal police, but of those who decided on specific operations, sending almost defenceless agents in front of crowds impossible to control, lack of foresight, frankly improved decisions and obvious uncoordination. Criticisms have indeed been raised in this regard, also concerning the low number of troops to deal with very complicated and high-risk situations. And produced the incidents, shortage of complaints, very few sanctions, something that encourages young and not so violent young to maintain their hostile and entrepreneurship attitude. Therefore, we believe that supporting our agents is frankly insufficient without taking concrete measures to prevent such concentrations, to avoid them, if necessary, to ensure the safety of the agents who are forced to intervene when the incidents occur. Much is being said about this issue these days. We have heard the Mayor of Bilbao speak thick words for young people, but not a single word for his government team. In Vox we defend foresight, advance to problems that are known to occur. And knowing what was going to happen, what was being prepared at the concentrations in question, it is not a receipt to send insufficient supplies from Ertzaintza and local police, also putting their physical integrity at serious risk. Having said that, to support our security forces and bodies? Of course I do, I'm absolutely sure. From Vox we condemn, I repeat again, these violent acts in a consistent way, but we believe that it is necessary to condemn, support and do. And the latter is what we do not see in the transactional that appears signed by the groups that support the Government and PP-Citizens; something that did appear in the initial proposal of the Citizens Group at its second point, in which it was said that "the institutions and the Basque Government were urged to take appropriate measures to facilitate their mission to enforce the law and to ensure that such attitudes do not recur in our streets and squares." We believe that this was an important point and that we do not understand why it has been eliminated in this type of transactional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u82	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Collect EH, will you? Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u83	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. And thank you, also, to Mr. Carmel, at least for this initiative which EH Collect has brought in to explain his position without any means of manipulation, and without malicious interpretation, let us show our position. In consequence of this popular meeting of the EHG, botiloi, or festival, or the like, any assaults against the professional or private person or private property, he rejects the whole gangal action firmly. And to the injured, to all the injured, it represents its entire solidarity. Such attacks, such bandal actions, have no logic, no reason, no justification. This is our position, clear and clear, and I think the initiative will not be valid for much more. The words, I think, may not be so great a difference between us, that this initiative has not been brought near the differences or distances that may be between them. It is by no means necessary to give an equal complex solution to a complex problem that is complex, but a headlined press was to-day, which is in the photograph, which is not, and for that reason has become a transaction with a manicial position. A simplistic position because we see that no one has a magical solution to the problem of botellones, of the riots that are generated from them and of the actions that the police must perform. And it does not serve an easy speech to solve a reality that is complex and that is also overcoming those who must adopt solutions. And a manic discourse, because you have erected yourselves as a new court of the Most Holy Inquisition to render a verdict by which some are bad, very bad, while others are good, very good. It is categorically established that young people, the collective, are enemies of society, must be condemned, without possible revision, must be thrown into hell by the antisocial, incivic and insolidary in the pure dantesque style, without any hope, as well as return. And, of course, before these villains there are heroes, the police, who deserve all the applause and recognition for their performance, always equal and proportional. And reality tells us it's not like that, and there's a lot of hues and spikes and... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ...always equanimous and proportional. And reality tells us that it is not so, and that there are many shades and spikes, and that with such an expression there can be no answer to all this. It is troublesome, according to the text, that those who cause disturbances, who disturb life with the opposition of consolidaries and civilities, those who are condemned, and those who break the rules of health, are condemned. A sack of that kind without funds which condemns the whole collective of youth. To-day we will give the young men an answer from their superior point of view, from the power of the adult, or from the adultocentrism. We'll remind them of how irresponsible, selfish, polluted, and antisocial they are, the young man will appear as the enemies of society. And so we'll even increase the crack between generations. Ladies and gentlemen, these radical young men, what Mr. Barri said, are your children, they are our children, and they deserve another answer. We can't understand, we can't think, because we give them the present and the future. We reduced all the spaces of free culture, sports, and leisure, and generally condemn them to want of perspective, to poverty and poverty. Yes, we condemn them there. We, masters, have been seen to enjoy our free leisure in the meantime on the terraces, on the bars, on the ropes, in the corners. Their local youths, their free leisure space, have been closed to public space. He said that one day before there must be a reflection about the free leisure, about the pattern, and it seems reasonable to me, but today we shall not do this thought. Instead, we offer to young men a bad example, which we have given, and besides this, repression and condemnation. True, violent attacks on public or private property or against people; it has no justification, zero tolerance, it is expressed with the word expressed. And said this, what is the solution? How should we intervene? What will be the institutional reaction? Send it to the police? How much, how much? Indeed, he said Abort, without mercy. Do what? More repression? More wood? More troops? We have 8,000 ertzainas, 3,500 udaltzaines. Is that enough? Will they all mobilize? Do we need more? Mr. Atutxa, no mercy. Do you have orders not to interfere with Ertzaintza? Is it appropriate not to intervene in Ertzaintza? Is it prevaricating? Because in front of them there is a phenomenon that is sanctioned by law. Is it wise not to intervene because major evils are avoided, to avoid? That is the debate. But Aborto says mercilessly. No mercy. Does not the Ertzaintza intervene but must the Udaltzaingoa? Are we going to talk about the decoordination between Udaltzingoa and Ertzatinga now in Bilbao? And they propose to applaud the police performance, should we all think of shooting at Donostia, which left a young man with a broken jaw with the new foam bullets seriously injured? Or do we think the police attitude absolutely permissive that a few weeks, a few days later we were able to see in Pozas where we do not intervene in the face of awesome wreckage? On what does one or the other act depend?, on the alleged political paternity that is to be granted to these facts, because they are acting depending on supposedly close to who? We are convinced, says Mr Barrio. To what part of political paternity do you blame the facts we saw in Pozas? You know nothing, you're interested in airing a lie, a hoax, building a lie already denied by someone who might also know something, which is Mr Erkoreka. Are you in favour of merchants and hoteliers? So do we. We spoke with them in Donostia precisely where the vandalic events took place and they are very concerned. But also for his future, not only for the vandalistic facts. And we saw hoteliers protesting the affection of anti-vidian measures in their businesses how they were greeted by the Ertzaintza in the Plaza de la Constitución. Do we have to applaud those facts, too? One inmate reported that she had been stripped of her clothes at the police station in Donostia, allegedly to prevent self-injury and reported degrading and humiliating treatment. Do we have to applaud these facts as well? At least three cases of racist behaviour during the Ertzaintza pandemic. Do we applaud these facts? Five complaints against Ertzaintza in the year and a half for hate crimes, five, recognized by the department itself. Shall we protect them? Do we justify them? Shall we applaud them? Will they investigate themselves to the last consequence? Not to mention the disproportion and police action in mobilizations of young people who denounce precariousness or against workers who protest the impoverishment of their jobs. It is also closely linked to the pandemic situation. Do you applaud critics of all these police actions? Do I back up all your work? For I refuse, ladies and gentlemen, to give such a blank cheque. We see the police reply, moreover, that he is being capriced from one village to the other. In a country, it supposes a 1,000-dollar fine to participate in a botilo, 100 euros on the side. I don't know, Mr. Urkullu, where this substitute for the community will lead us, but in some cases the police have answered hard, while in the neighbouring neighbourhood the police have answered with permisibism and complete activity. And there's another possibility, there's an alternative, and he's rehearsing in several countries. Some of the town councils we're in the government are forming means of communicating with young people. The relationship between institutions and young men is working to prevent these events from balancing the free leisure and the right to the rest of the community well. Citykeepers talk to the young, communicate, control events... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ... To balance properly. Citykeepers talk to young people. Do events communicate? ) for managing, enabling limits to be agreed and created conflicts. And we think this is right. In Donostian, where the disturbances which we accuse have occurred, we have also proposed such initiations, such dynamics, such as the fashion of tables with young men, and the communication of other kinds, in order to direct a communication which is not due to violence. And we're prepared to implement these efficient measures. But unfortunately, as I was saying today, this discussion was not to suggest solutions, a sorrow, a waste of time and a loss of opportunity.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u84	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Passing the answer round, representative of the popular-Chaulous team, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u85	Thank you, President. It seems to me a solution to condemn violence and support Ertzaintza. It seems like a solution to me. It would seem to me a failure not to do so. My obligation is... solutions. And I give you solutions. Yours are failures. Look, Mr Martínez, I thank you again, although you have criticized me, I believe that, unjustly, I thank you again for your amendment, which I believe raised interesting debates. But he wanted to divert attention a little bit. Here it says in GNP, youth, GNP, as Mr Prieto has been reminded, it says: "The Basque Parliament shows its deepest condemnation, such, such, such..." "Unsolidary attitudes of people who disturb citizen confidence, failing to comply..." People. I wrote it myself. I also wrote it, knowing that we could not get involved in anything other than people, responsible, young or not. He also accuses me of criminalizing youth. I don't have to explain that to her. You've heard me fatal. Some radical youth are not youth or some manipulative youth are not youth or some violent youth are not youth, Mr Martínez. It is quite clear that you have not heard me well or wanted to distract attention, manipulating a little what I try to bring. I talk to a lot of young people. I'm an older person. I'm 61 years old, but I'm talking to... I have contact with many young people, because I work, I have young children, whom Mr. Díez knows them. My environment and youth really know what they want, for the most part. Youth knows what they want. And he doesn't want to face the police. Conversely, most youth want to respect the police. And I don't exaggerate when I talk about the left-hand mark abertzale. It's just that there's the confrontation with the police, with the authority, systematic, everywhere. It's not a gang or bottling strategy. No, it's a strategy, a strategy that's there, that underlies all of this. That's pretty clear. Look, yesterday, precisely, we had, my group, my party organized an act to claim the role of the young people, of the young people who respect, that even one here does not like, but of those young people who respect the rules of the game of the young people who are attacked by their political ideas. Of course, we know that these are radical behaviors, whether young or not. And what we endorse and what we respect and what we want is to value those behaviors of young people like those I know, mostly, who respect the rules of the game and that some are even assaulted by that. Mrs. Martinez, we have to deal and agree. And, logically, I had a point that I liked much more than the transaction point. But I had to agree. And the fundamental thing, what I really wanted, what I really wanted was to support and support Ertzaintza. I know we can talk about inadequacies or we can talk about overflows or lack of... It's there. But today the day of solutions, not failure, the day of solutions was to condemn acts and support Ertzaintza. Of course, I was grateful to Mr Arzuaga. But once again, and as always, right?, what he's done is he's missed a chance. Every time you come out to talk about these issues, Mr. Arzuaga, you and your group lose a chance. They lose the opportunity, increasingly alone in relation to condemning acts of violence, condemning attitudes of aggression, supporting Ertzaintza... Sure, so more and more alone, huh? You guys, well, more and more alone. That's good news. It would be better news if you joined most of these someday, but good. Once again, Mr. Arzuaga, they are still missing the trains. And in this case, one more, in relation to this question; disguise it as you wish, right? I think these initiatives, in the end, thank me, but what you feel is fatal, right?, to Mr Arzuaga and EH Bildu. And it's clear you have to distract from what we heard the other day even Mr. Otegi, right? It was alluded to when there was criticism of violent acts, when such violent acts were reported. Mr. Otegi was alluding. In that sense it was very clear when he said: "These situations are neoliberalism, or existentialist nihilism." That is what should be analysed, and not precisely the acts of violence, condemn them; demarcate themselves from them. There's one thing very clear, Mr. Arzuaga. You still miss trains, you still miss opportunities, and well, one day let's hope it changes. And we will continue to bring – of course – these initiatives to fruition. Mr. Arzuaga, wounded, assaulted, insulted ertzainas: mark of the left abertzale. It is not the mark of democratic liberalism, nor of the desire for fun. And those attitudes don't condemn them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u86	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together Podemos-Nozzer, Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u87	I'm gonna start like I'm done. Well, they've described a... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ...I'll start as I'm done. They have described a truth and the truth is important, as important as punctuality. What happens is that after that everything remains to be done; therefore, we are going to adopt a statement of condemnation, in our insufficient sense, but we are not going to do anything else. Those are the conclusions of this debate. I told you in the negotiation, Mr Barrio, that it could have been an institutional declaration and we could have approved the text, but we also proposed to introduce two matters which you have refused. One, well, I support police performance, well, as long as it's done with... On the basis of the criteria of proportionality and suitability, the three parties have refused to introduce it and we have introduced another debate which you know perfectly well as I, which is the model of leisure and the situation in which we are living on the street, have also refused to do so. We do not have the magic solution to end all this, but what we are talking about is talking from a condemnation to violence, from a support to the police if you do the work as you have to do, from a third issue that is intrinsically related to that, which is the leisure model that society as a whole has and especially the youth, inherited, by the way, by their elders. And Mr. Prieto, contradictions all, all, I have told you some of them in my first intervention, but, well, I think having contradictions is good, it's about managing them and reaching agreements. This is not a debate now, the Youth Act, where there is a section specifically devoted to the subject of leisure. Let's approach it, I encourage the rest of the groups to address it as well. And Mr. Atutxa, mercilessly you have repeated, I would like to... and I wish you would have that same strength with Iberdrola when he threatens to stop making investments, because a left government is taking steps to reduce the receipt of light. No mercy. I wish Arantza Tapia, who is not here today, looked into Iberdrola's eyes and said, "No mercy." And by the way, mercy in a religious sense is feeling compassion for someone who deserves punishment. There may be young people who need or need not, who may be punished because they have committed an unlawful act. Without mercy, for I believe that this is far from the rule of law. And alternatives I've given him some and I repeat again. We don't have the magic solution or alternative. For example, dialogue with young people, with hoteliers, with the police themselves, with society as a whole and finding common agreements and measures seems a good first step, and I say again, condemning reality is very good, we all do so, but if we do not take steps to transform that reality, to seek a better society, I do not know exactly why they have brought this debate here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u88	Thank you, Mr Martínez. Basque Socialists, Mr Price is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u89	I'm the one who thinks it's very useful to have brought what we brought here. Moreover, having confined it to the two things that arise: the rejection of violence, the condemnation of violence and solidarity with the Basque police. Because we have actually been seeing through the various interventions how that can be more or less accepted whenever there is a shadow of doubt about police action, and then that a collective is stigmatized if there has been at some point some excess that obviously must have its treatment, or what is raised is that, well, violence is wrong, but we have a leisure model that is bad. It is that we have a model of labor relations that is bad, that we have sectoral problems that also affect people's lives and that can generate tensions that result in violence, which is what comes to arise in some intervention. We wanted to avoid that. Certainly, we wanted to avoid that, we wanted to prevent elements of proportionality, suitability, of what, or elements of questioning certain sectoral models from appearing in the final outcome so that both the condemnation of violence and solidarity with the Basque police were somehow conditioned and not as clear or as robust as it is the will, at least, of the political groups that we have signed that amendment, and indeed, I believe that we have complied with what we are pursuing, that today in Parliament there is an act that is not stifled by the lukewarmness, by the excuse, by the pilgrim justification, but is clear and clear of the condemnation of violence and is clear and clear of support for the work of the Basque police collective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u90	Thank you, Mr Prinet. Eubertarians, Mr. Atucha is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u91	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Arzuga, you mentioned, I did not mention the young men in my speech, nor did he appear in the text. You've been talking about the job model you've got with the kids, in the countries where you run... [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]] ... you have spoken of the model you have with the young, in the countries where you rule. The City Police talk about the young dandies, and, well, we think the work is very interesting, and we think it's a good way along that road. Durangon and Eledoron I don't know what happened, but, well, even though that happens, we believe that model doesn't apply only to the countries where you rule, but in other places be it elsewhere. But, look, sometimes it's a failure, I'm afraid. Mr Martínez, we have been asked from your group for reflection and analysis. It is necessary and necessary to continue to do so. And from the point of view of our institutions, and as Mr Arzuaga reminded us, I share with him, we have been working for years on various initiatives to curb the proliferation of these kinds of acts, of botellones, of alcohol consumption in our streets; work, initiatives that in most cases the pandemic itself has been able to slow down, but, of course, they are not forgotten or put in a drawer. We are ready to work with you and the rest of the groups in this House, to continue to deepen on what possibilities, what policies we can design in that order. With regard to compassion and piety, and so on, and so forth, for I do not know, I can have many virtues that adorn me, but others, of course, I lack them, I lack them. Why am I telling you this? Let's see, we can't stay in half ink, it's serious issues that are happening or can happen, that is, we can't launch the message of "quiet things that won't happen to you." No, no, It can't be. It shouldn't be like that. If we did, we'd be acting in an irresponsible, very irresponsible way. And, of course, as parliamentarians, under no circumstances should that be the role we must take. I'm done. I conclude by insisting on the content of the signed transactional. We condemn the events and attacks that have taken place and, of course, we give our support, our protection to the entire Basque Police, which has been involved for many months in preserving the health of everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u92	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Myst, Mrs Martínez, is your word from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u93	Excuse me, President, I'll do it from the seat. We stress once again that it is necessary to condemn, support and do, fundamentally to do so. We need concrete action and go beyond the words and condemnations that, of course, we share, as it could not be otherwise. Some groups speak of proportionality, act with proportionality, have been overtaken, the Ertzaintza has been overtaken, we have seen it, have thrown stones at them, have beaten them, have insulted them. I wonder what the proportionality is in this case? What should they have done? Acting the same way, throwing stones or is there some other proportionality? It is curious the double play of some group or some parliamentary groups in this House, defenders of young people, but instigators of violence; to reject with a small mouth, but not to condemn; defenders of human rights, but not of rights and the necessary respect for our Police; support for young people, but that, always depending on the ideology they have. We believe that today's majority support for this initiative is a very positive thing for our entire Basque society and, of course, we will also support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u94	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. EH Collector, Mr. Arzuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u95	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, we were on a position to protect a point with what you've brought together with Podemos. And I still have to say that I agree with your speech, Mr Martínnez. Ladies and gentlemen, does the possibility end, even as a mere hypothesis, that there are young people who participate in mass stays and deserve our applause because they have civic and solidarity attitudes, and on the other hand there are inertzainas who deserve our reprobation, not condemnation, our reprobation, because – as a mere hypothesis, I say – because they are...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u96	Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u97	Here you come to listen too, uh, you come to talk but you come to listen too. Is it a mere hypothesis that there are ertzainas who deserve a reprobation for their attitude out of order, out of proportion? And yet here one is condemned without palliatives and the others are applauded without room for criticism. The monotermine. I do not think it is wrong for you to use a specific term, I accept it, it seems legitimate that you want to express it in this way, I only call for the same treatment if I prefer to use another in the name of the freedom of democracy and perhaps plurality. I want to ask you, can I express myself as I see fit? With the terms, with the words that are mine and with the words that seem appropriate to me? Because after that apparent ethical superiority I see a certain authoritarianism or a certain sectarianism and because there is no moral obligation or ethical imperative to express myself as you do. Do I have the right to disagree? Mr. Barrio says I miss a chance to express myself as you do. My question is whether I express myself as the PP, if I express myself as the PSOE, if I express myself as the PNV I become the PP, the PSOE, the PNV and you will understand the scruple that this generates me. It has been deliberately intended to mix previous elements, current ones, as an alibi for not taking any responsibility. We have seen it on other occasions, condemning everything so as not to be responsible for anything at all. And I don't know, Mr. Atucha, that our model seems to fail, or that we're bankrupt with young people... [[End of tape 42]] [[Begin of tape 43]] ... Mr. Cuckoo, our model is supposed to fail or waste us in communication with young men, but I have a great curiosity to know what is the end of that merciless act which M. Aburto has proclaimed on the following Saturday. The problem which I really see here is that there is an inaccuracidity in this problem, in order to give a solution to this complex problem. And, indeed, there was scope for agreement and there was scope for agreements, as in some locations have already been given. We have reached agreements on this subject in Bergara, in Bakio, and today afternoon I believe that an agreement will be reached in Galdakao on the term of reprobation. Reproving the attacks that have taken place, as well as applauding the overwhelmingly supportive and responsible reaction of the citizenry. I don't know, do you have to see that we are EH Bildu in government in these peoples in order to be able to reach agreements and that here there is not even a possibility of arriving? Maybe it's because the PP isn't in these towns? And maybe that's the reflection of reality that concerns everyone. Lack of respect for authority are saying, and it is true, young people have no authority, or seem to have no authority towards the police, towards the institutions, nor did EH Bildu. Do you think you will have this statement that you have adopted some kind of impact today? Do you think that all the young people are looking on the internal channel of Parliament to see what the message we send them from here is? Frightening at the decision you have taken today? Does your attachment to the institution increase? Does criminalizing them introduce values into them? Is it any use? Is it effective for something? And no, because that's not the point. The interest is to stigmatize youth for political interest, and again looking to the past. Annotating schemes that are already known. Someone called him Korra borroka, and in an interview, Zubiaurre, president of the Basque employer, said "the radicality that we live with ETA is still seen in some labor conflicts." Here it is, the young people behind the botellons practice the kale borroka and the workers in struggle are from ETA. This is the scheme you want to come to, not to solve anything, but to apply recipes already known in this country, which go through repression, which goes through the exception, which goes through bringing more suffering. And this is dangerous and perverse, because the PP is also campaigning, gentlemen of the PSOE and gentlemen of the PNV, and it is campaigning against the public school, because it seems that there is the virus of hatred, or against the Basque Youth Council. And with this I'm going to finish. Euskadiko Gazteriaren Kontseilua's rejection protocol for all forms of violence says: "The writing of the communiqués must not be done from the language of hatred or fall into the concepts with pejorative or partisan connotations: condemn repentance, enemy, oppression, forgiveness. For this purpose, linguistic formulas will be sought that affect the reasons for the problem, try to humanize it and look towards a present and a shared future, lived together, with responsibility focused on non-repetition." I don't know if due to the pressures received, in the end, they'll change this protocol. I just have to say, once again, young people teach us a lesson. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u98	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. End of discussion, we'll vote for the popularCans of Euscala, Socialists, and the middle-term corrections signed by Euzarian patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 73; in favour of 48; in the contrary, 19; abstaining, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u99	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Number of points in theme list: "Provide the proposition of the law made by the parliamentary band, concerning the hiring of workers outside the European Union in Osacia. To discuss and to decide once and for all." The next round of the proposed team, Mrs. Ubera, representative of the EH Collect group, has the word to present and defend. Quiet, please. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u100	but if you have not the opportunity to read, I shall briefly remember the proposal to which to place it. The proposition has three points, and is the first point, in the hands which the fundamental Common-wealth of the Public Government confers upon the legislature, to enable the members of the Ossar to work on the people outside the European Union. The second point, as has been done in the pandemonium, is to guarantee these workers that they are inside the polls. And thirdly, by the Euscala treaty of Migration, to examine and correct the administration of the Public Administration, where there is any discrimination of that man. We place a proposition in the frame of the treaty for the migration, in the development of the frames and targets, our commitment to this and all the people. Remember, this country has from 2019, November 30, a Social Euskal treaty for migration from the President of the Urkullus. Almost all the agents who work in the Euscal institutions and migration phenomena, and are protected by most of the groups of the legislature, and signed. EHG is the sign of the Social Covenant for the Migration, and we signed the terms with conviction, even though they were critical. Because we really believe that our country should be reception people. Because we really believe in commitments made in this treaty: in plural life, in co-existence, in cohesion, in indirectness and firmness. For all this, and for several other reasons which appear in the treaty... [[End of tape 43.]] [[Begin of tape 44.]] ... in indirectness and firmness, is it not? For this reason, and for several other reasons which occur in the treaty, we proposed the proposal which we are now engaged to discuss. As we are the signs of the Covenant, because we are responsible, and because before all contingencies there are circumstances to remedy, according to the degree of our responsibility and responsibility. It's important to play coherence. Covenants cannot be made empty words. The treaties cannot be photographs of a day. Covenants ought to be engagements, which are developed by actions. So when we got to the complaint of the FSS union, we started getting in touch with the emigration manager, and we started doing what might be in our hands. In the year 2021, because it doesn't make any sense because of its origin, of preventing the access to the Public Administration, if the other duties are fulfilled, do it not? That's important. Prepared, formats to work in the Public Administration, not where you're from. And even in Osapartics, we should consider that. It is also a defect, that we should act according to our own interests, and consequently should not obey the law, upon general interest; and that when these interests are once changed, they should be rejected, by the mere use of men. As it is received in the treaty of migration, so it is taken literally, one of the essential wants of universal ethics, which we do not want others to do to ourselves. The legislation which is in force is already shown to be very disaffection, not only EAE, but also in the State, and in Europe. He sees that employment, and the internal and external action of the law, whether practical or practical, does not agree with political purposes. We see, then, the necessity of changing those laws, those forms of religion. But at the same time we see that we have tools and resources, in order to make changes in this direction, to put an end to every neglect. And in this case, this legislature can take a step. For, a text of the Law of the First Common-wealth of the Public Authority, is agreed on the 5/2015 Law of the Decree King. the article permits us to do so. In point of fact, the 5th point of this article is taken: "The duty of nationality, for reasons of general public interest, can only be exempted from the law of the law of the Common-wealths, or autonomys of the Common-wealths of the Common-wealths of Common-wealths." Well, as far as I can tell, Osatident workers are states. That would be another discussion, and probably legally there would be other gaps. So it's in the hands of the law to solve this matter, even though it's clear that what's after fun is fully conditioned by us. There may be different options to provide a solution to: one may be a single-reading billing and accepting here, between the legal teams, the other a one-read-reading bill, and the other a law of public employment just begun by the tramit. The question is, at least in our humble opinion, that the state of neglect should not be prolonged, and that there should be a long time, because there are people in it, their profession, their lives, their projects, and that every state of neglect must not be a second? We wouldn't have a problem solving this subject in the transmutation of the public law. But, you know, this law is very wide, very fat, it's very complex, and can take years. What about in the meantime? What is the solution we offer? What is the solution we give? I just want to remember that this law has been in this house for years. It has been years, and besides, in the pre-prejudication, the government itself paralysed the transition to this law. Besides, in the article which the government receives in the law mentioned, 72.5, only the specialists and the nurses, as far as they belong to the Osacombs. And besides, as a member, some very specific professionals: The systems and technology of information and communication, the specialist medical medical health service of Osalim, and the employees of nurses, and some of the bordering and municipal towns, which require a supply of the languages and cultures of the more special immigrational sectors in the country. We also encourage another discrimination because we don't all treat them the same. Once again, the integrated view we should have today is not being collected. The political ends which a people possesses are not moderated. The dimensions of democratic ethics are discarded. It follows the world and flow of the past without considering the plurality of society today. Apart from the outer mode, the inner tactical limits are restored and stabilized. It eliminates ethical, prevocative, and proctive projections. And the ethical, preventive, and productive projection is literally contained in the treaty itself. What we seek is, therefore, to give these people a short time's solution, with the long view of starting our society, as they have been working throughout the whole pandemia, to continue their work. We mustn't forget we're also short of professional health. Today, we've settled in Osar, but all this should be considered in the order of the future Public Administration, because we have to adapt the public function to new times... [[End of tape 44.]] [[Start of tape 45]] ... It should be considered in the order of the future Public Administration, because we have to adapt the public function to new times, which will look upon people who are ready and engaged than their originals. Remember, in public office, that in Public Administration, citizen, we need engaged workers who will be in the community's service. And to act in public is not a right. The duties must be fulfilled: At least, to dominate the official language of our country, to serve the people in different areas, etc., etc. But does it make us a better workman, or a worse workman, to be in a country? We could talk for a long time about the regularization of people. What a horrible word, isn't it? I don't know what we're going to be. I don't know what we're supposed to be. But as it is not the subject of the present day, and, moreover, it seems to be for another discussion, I shall not go further into it. Now, for the moment, because we're going to identify this area, because we're trying to solve the specific matter in Osata, and that's what we're proposing to do. And we're also asking you to examine the criteria of contract in departments and organizations that are responsible for fun and fun, and see if there's any other distractions in the situation, and if it's given, you can correct them. And in conclusion, I'd like to end up with a reflection. And for this purpose, I would like to bring to this meeting words made by the journalist Eva Domica for the length of La Magnifier. That's what everybody was saying a few days ago, including Euskana, when the Afghans came up with a plan in front of the situation that was happening to them, you know, and you're crazy to take the Afghans. Esaten zouen: "Are we really a host country?". In Euskadi there are 85 grouped into 18 families. The main institutions have offered help in honor of our self-perception of land of refuge. We welcome, yes, but once here we put a thousand obstacles to them. These same welcoming institutions deny them access to their jobs. Eta bukatzeko, egoerari buelta emango diot, éta afganiarren, edo haitiarren, edo Syrianren azalean euskaldunak jarriaz bukatuko dut hitz harze hau. Year 2030. Thousands of Basques and Basques are forced to flee, and are arriving in the Scottish lands, from the Sahara, after miles traveled by sea and land. But it's not fiction. It's not fiction, because already the Basques had to run away because they had the 36th rebellion. And because we know what this is supposed to mean, we have experience. But today, discussion, the situation we're having, the problem, is not so near. But it shows that all the obstacles of our internal level are to be a nation of reception. They're not just the outside limits. We have a lot of boundaries inside, even the mental ones, and they're terrible. It clearly discovers that the legislative of the past frame requires alterations. And even if we have a chance, we have a choice, even if we have a hand to begin with these changes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Chaus Group, Mr. Gordillo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u102	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The proposal that had been registered, the non-legislative proposal to ask the Government to submit a bill to this Parliament to exempt the requirement of nationality for access to public employment for persons from third countries, which would be technically what would be called the issue, has been introduced by the parliamentary group EH Bildu, what happens is that in the light of Mrs Ubera's intervention I have lost a little because I have seen her making considerations of interest on the subject of immigration, on, say, the competition framework also of the Basque Country and issues already a little more... cultural or a certain historical reading, etc., but what is the proposal itself is a proposal I believe of the Government's request to the Government precisely that (?)Lead a bill that exempts this limitation, which in principle provides for access to public employment in Spain. But ladies and gentlemen, first of all a shared reflection, which is a descriptive recognition of the Spanish legal system in the European states, and Spain in this is no exception, often being particularly restrictive above all those of the continent by historical tradition, in allowing people from third states to access public jobs. It is an exception or it has been an exception Europe, the case of the United Kingdom, for example, where a person almost irrespective of his or her nationality could gain access to public employment. It's true that public employment there has another mentality maybe and another nature, it's easy to get in and it's easy to get out or to get out, it's probably not like the rest of the countries. There are other states that make small exceptions. In Germany, for example, it is customary to allow the hiring of some foreigners in the foreign services and in the cabinets of the chancellors, etc. In Spain it is true that it is complicated. This could be explained as the theory of concentric circles, that is, you have to be Spanish, national, resident, etc. in order to be able to opt for all public employment, then there are European citizens, members of member states of the European Union, then they would be, that these have a small limitation, although little by little they are being equated have a small limitation, which is that relative to certain positions, positions in which the empire is, let's say, in some way. Progressively this is being limited, but it is a limitation. Thirdly, there are states of which... Spain, in this case, has an international agreement either directly or through the European Union, which is the most common thing... [[End of tape 45]] [[Start of tape 46.]] ... the limitation. Thirdly, there are States in which, in this case, Spain has an international agreement either directly or through the European Union, which is the most common thing for "free recruitment", etc. Don't you? It was very common for young people who had been spoken of before or at least who liked football to know this, because there were often footballers of certain nationalities who were not required to do so, who were not counted as foreigners for work purposes. Finally, this small excuse is simply, ladies and gentlemen, to contextualize the issue of access to public employment. Is the system restrictive? What happens is that the legislation of the EBEP, of the Basic Statute of the Public Employee, does contain an exception that effectively allows, through a rule with the rank of law, exceptional in certain sectors this issue and allow for the hiring of persons from third countries, which would be. The point is that this kind of law is unprecedented so far, it hasn't happened, come on, I've called some ministry, some expert, and the truth is no one has seen it so far. There is indeed the case of the pandemic, there has been a case recently, but the adoption of a law expressly in the courts or in autonomous parliaments has not been done so far. With this, I simply want to share with the House the contextualization of the issue. In my view, what is the real situation and what is the fundamental problem that exists in public employment, recruitment and so on. Here are two questions. The first is what model of public employment we want, and then it would also be what situation we also have but, above all, what we want public employment for, what we want to aspire to. Let's see, if for us public employment consists of a way of employing, reducing unemployment, through jobs that can be more or less specific, more or less complicated, that require more or less complex qualifications, in those models of public employment, that can be historical or specific to other states, in those systems, in those systems, in those systems, the truth is that public employment, come on, the state becomes the first employer and, moreover, there certainly the purpose is above all to eliminate the lists of unemployment. If we understand that public employment is something else, it must have a tendency towards greater specialization, greater added value and, above all, gradually reducing certain positions in the public administration that can be exercised through public procurement systems, tenders, by which private companies are hired to provide this service, then we have a completely different model, a much more specialized administration, whose officials, as it were, are dedicated to a specific group or type of work. This is what we will be discussing in the Public Employment Act that the Government has already sent. And it's important, I think, to know what kind of administration and what kind of civil servant we want to have. I think this is important, although sometimes it goes unnoticed. If we want a more flexible administration dedicated to the maximum added value that it can bring and, in case of doubt, do not opt for the public service, but if there are jobs that can be offered from the private sector through days of public procurement that are controlled, we should opt for them. At least that is what OECD studies and what is being established in advanced countries. We are going to have a very serious problem with European funds, because we may find that there are no experts or there are not sufficiently trained officials in number, etc., to manage this issue, and we have to resort to hiring experts to manage European funds. The real problem that we can have in the Spanish administration, which has much to do with the actual lack of mobility that exists in the Spanish public service, in general, is the issue of the requirements of the specific languages, the co-official languages that exist in some autonomous communities, which is our case, for example, ladies and gentlemen, it is the case, for example, that also happens in Osakidetza. That is why our amendment which, in principle, also makes it possible for the Government to send a bill with a basic principle that is the openness, in fact, so that the most qualified people can opt for these posts and, above all, not discriminating because of the lack of knowledge of their own language, in this case of the co-official language, which could be the Basque language, which is sufficient for you to have knowledge of the Spanish language. What happens in the autonomous communities? And I think it happens to us many times in Euskadi, look, ladies and gentlemen, in Euskadi, specifically in Osakidetza, it happens to us that certain kinds of highly specialized jobs, in these types of jobs sometimes do not choose those that could be the best. Why? Because the R4, who are in the specialization, as you know, the resident physicians of the 3rd and 4th year, on labor issues, instead of, perhaps, focusing on getting into a research team, on preparing the doctoral thesis, etc., focus on learning Basque because they know that it will be a requirement that will be demanded of them, or they will either be required as a requirement without more or the way to calculate the points makes it cost you the same, that it is worth the same to have a doctorate or to have a doctorate, three masters, etc., that you have the accredited knowledge of the language of the place. It is the real problem of public administration in general, and it is the real problem in this case of Osakidetza. What kind of proposal has the Bildu parliamentary group made? Well, in our opinion it's incomplete, it doesn't pick up the main problem that is this language. Because you can allow now, you could pass a law, the government will say that now it does not touch, in the proposal, the amendment to the entire government, look, it does not touch, when the Public Employment Act is passed, the government will approve, implement and implement the Public Employment Act. Well, of course, that's what always has to happen. But I also don't think there's a bottom-up contribution to what the final content is going to be. But, of course, what is the subject? If now the Government, either now, either within a time or Parliament, forgives, passes a law that allows and allows for precisely this, and allows foreign people to compete, the problem will be that normally foreign people will not know or will not have knowledge of the co-official language, in this case the Basque language. And we're going to find the same situation that's been going on here for a long time, which is kind of temporary, interim jobs, this, the other thing, it's not going to solve the problem. So why do we choose? We opt for an administration, an open public service, of quality and whose purpose is to recruit the most qualified people, better qualified for public employment and for the service that we have to... [[End of tape 46]] [[Start of tape 47]] ... whose purpose is to recruit the most qualified people, better qualified for public employment and for the service they have to provide to us. That, specifically, health, in an ageing society like ours, is becoming more and more important. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u103	Thank you, Mr Gordillo, Basque Socialists, Mr. rico.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u104	Thank you, Madam President. I am going to be quite brief, because I think it is well, the issue is very well placed, and I am not going to go into certain issues that I believe are being distorted in raising the debate. Access to public employment is reflected in the Basic Status of Public Employees Act, specifically in article 57, which refers to access by nationals of other states. And article 57.5 states, as Mr Gordillo has pointed out, that only by law of the State or of autonomous communities can one be exempted from the nationality requirement on the grounds of general interest. Mrs Ubera said, and it is true, that what temporary recruitment bags would be are also governed by this same system. It is true, and I believe that this must be admitted, that with the pandemic there have been a number of cases, minimal ones, but there have been, and that is so, in which, by the way of the facts, this action has been exempted. There have been specific cases, which have also not only been given in the Basque administration, but have been given in all the administrations because, clearly speaking, everything that could be counted on has been taken, and that is a real situation that we have to face. And, this, placed above the table, a situation, which I say again by placing it in its context, is a very minority situation but which is there and which makes us reflect. Good. What is the underlying proposal? I believe that the proposal for a fund at the end of the day we are all in agreement. Let's settle it, let's settle it. Mrs Rebeka Ubera suggested that there was an option to bring a specific bill for this or a single reading bill. Our proposal is another, our proposal is that we have the Public Employment Act here, we have it in this Parliament, it is in the process of appearances, and then there will be an amendment procedure. I also acknowledge, Mr Gordillo, that I have reread our amendment and that it is somewhat conundrumed. But what that amendment means if we read two or three times is that all of us, through the amendments, agree what has to come out of that law, and once in that law we have decided how we deal with that problem, the Government is not to dictate a new law or anything, no, no, the Government will apply what comes out of that article, which is 72.5 specifically, of the bill. And that's where we're at. I think it's very simple. There is a recognition that a very unusual fact has been made so far in our tradition, and we have to deal with it. Well, from the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group we share that if we have the Public Employment Act in this house, it is logical that, on the basis of the amendments to that article 72.5 that each of the parliamentary groups wants to register, we value the situation. Because it is true, says Mrs Ubera that in this project there are three very specific mentions in the exception, but it is a starting point. A point of departure that is open to the amendments of all groups, including the groups that we support the Government. Therefore, I believe that in that there is indeed a basic point of coincidence that we have to deal with, and the only question is how. Well, we believe that the most logical way, and with this end, is in the Public Employment Act. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u105	Thank you, Mr. Rico. The word is yours, Madame Laruri.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, good noon to all. The incumbent who is brought to us today we understand that he is a malicious titular, and the titular would be this: "Osakidetza hired extra-Community personnel during the pandemic, and now he is no longer hired because of his origin." They come to say that he was used and to see what insolidaries the Basque Government, questioning his and our morale. But nothing else, this isn't like that at all. There can be no doubt that Euskadi is indeed a country of solidarity, with its institutions at the head and the Basque Government in particular. Precisely in order to avoid xenophobic populisms and other demagogues, such as those we can also hear here today, the Basque Government promoted the fact that, in the pact you mention, the Basque Social Pact for Migration to respond to the current migration challenge from the point of view of pluralism, solidarity and necessity. The Government has demonstrated with numerous facts that it is, of course, sensitive and has a firm commitment to the integration of people arriving in Euskadi. But the question that we see today, the case study that we see today, is another one. And, first and foremost, that I believe there is no doubt, but, well, an express recognition on our part of the professionals who gave the best of themselves during the pandemic, in all sectors and in the public sector in particular, which is what we are dealing with today. And, of course, this issue has many nuances that you do not fully express and that are key to analysing the situation. On the one hand, it is the context, the moment at which these recruitments took place. They took place at a time of pandemic, at the most serious time of the pandemic, in which there was a personal need. And, of course, many exceptional and temporary measures were taken to address urgent and unreplaceable needs. On the other hand, there is the legal question, which, as has already been said, the requirements, a very specific legal question of a very specific area, which are the requirements for access to the public service. It is not just any employment relationship, it is access to the public service, either on a temporary or fixed basis, but it is access to the public service. And among other requirements, as can be titling... [[End of tape 47]] [[Start of tape 48]] ...work relationship, anyone. It is access to public service, either on a temporary or fixed basis, but it is access to public service. And among other requirements, such as titling, proper titling, homologation, or language profiles that, of course, unlike Mr Gordillo, we advocate maintaining, because of... well, it's a debate already overtaken, the linguistic rights of this society... Well, it's... another of the requirements is the requirement of nationality, in particular, to be of a Member State of the European Union, or having signed international treaties the EU, and ratified by the Spanish State, which also speaks of the free movement of persons, or other series of exceptions, of spouse and others. But that nationality requirement is there, and it applies to all public administrations, whether they want to hire staff, either on a temporary, insistent, or fixed basis. So, back to the moment. Moment: full pandemic, state of alarm, emergency health situation. Royal Decree 463/2020 of 14 March – the one we all know – which declared the state of alarm, enabled public administrations, and among them and thus used Osakidetza to take these exceptional measures, and also in the field of human resources, as they could be: to reduce certain licenses, permits, surpluses, daily reductions, and also to hire staff. So, to hire staff, for what? To be able to complete, to be able to serve the population, to complete the templates, so that on other occasions there were rules that limited these recruitments. However, for that period, the possibility of taking additional measures to complete the staffing table and be able to provide such services to the citizenry was given. First, for those hirings; and I am already speaking in the specific case of Osakidetza. First, she went to the work bags. Workbags that are regulated, and that also these workbags require requirements, such as that of nationality. When those bags... when there were no more staff available in those bags, i.e. when they were exhausted, other forms of recruitment were used, as it could be, there were no more bags: the resumes. And in that of resumes, there were many people, well, because it would have met the requirements to be in bags but it was not, and also in a very punctual and isolated way, because it is not possible to generalize this fact, also some extra-Community. But it was a point-by-point question, which dealt with a very specific moment. And then, there comes the legal issue. And it's that those people aren't kept in their bags now; they were never there. And those contracts didn't end with the origin of those people. These contracts ended because they were temporary, and because these work needs changed or ended, as did many other professionals. And, of course, it is not a reason of origin; it is a reason for the needs and possibilities of work that exist at every moment. And the legal issue, as I was saying. One of the requirements for access to public service on a fixed or temporary basis is that nationality status. Good. If we want to change it, the Basque Government has already collected that glove that gives it the basic rules of the state, which is EBEP as has been said. The Basque Government, in the draft law on public employment, which has already been adopted in July and which we now have in Parliament, takes this possibility of exempting that requirement, in some specific cases. Good, but as we said, it is a starting point, that in the parliamentary process these assumptions can be changed. I mean, don't focus now on the fact that this is discriminatory, because those cases that are named address specific requests, because it is understood that they are the sectors in which this case is given the most, but that, of course, our group is open to debate and to get a meeting point in what can be the most appropriate assumptions. So now it is no longer a question of Osakidetza, of the will of the Basque Government. No, no. Now we're... That law is in Parliament. Now it will be that of the parliamentary groups, that of all, therefore, one, times, speeding it up or hindering it. I mean, years... I don't think we can be late... We don't have to take years to pass a law, do we? I mean. I mean, that will depend on the will of all of us. And the content, what I am saying, well, because we are open to being able to expand those assumptions if appropriate, but, of course, to look for or analyze and to look for a meeting point. And I think there should be no demagogy in this matter. No one's been used. They have been employment contracts because there were needs at one time; of course, a labour relationship, with decent conditions. And there, that doesn't use anyone. And they end because they're temporary, not by origin. And, on the other hand, you can't put your feet up right now either, or try to question the whole system of hiring public administrations in general, and Osakidetza in particular. We cannot call into question all the trade union agreements that have been obtained, for example, the basis for temporary recruitment, for fixed recruitment of OPEs; all of a sudden we cannot put all that up. Another issue is that we change the rules, that we change the rules. And, for example, you named... you said, "Well, it's that in Osakidetza, just like it's statutory personal." No, no, See, you name the agreement of 21 July on your initiative, in the explanatory statement, "the agreement of 21 July of the Board of Directors of Osakidetza on temporary recruitment lists". Well, I agree, by the way, that it came from an administration agreement with two unions: Satse and Euskadi Medical Union. And in it it says: "Access. Access shall be governed by the principles of equality, merit, capacity and publicity, agility, objectivity, transparency and effectiveness." Good. We'll agree, won't we? And on the other hand: "The constitution of these exchanges", for the constitution, "the general requirements will be required". In other words, nationality, the general requirements that are required for an OPE, and specific requirements, which is titling. So, it's not that sometimes it's required... No, no. It's just that this is an agreement signed with two unions... in this case, huh? That these requirements are required by the norm. And it's always done this way, until it changes. Well, then, I understand, we understand, that here has been tried or that there is a risk of mixing things up. It is not a question of morality; it is a question of legality. It was the moment, but now it's a matter of legality. And let's not demagogue about this, because it's dangerous. It is dangerous to use these people, precisely to try to entangle or show that there has been discrimination. I think the way is... If we understand that this requirement does not conform to current times, modify it. And well, then we'll meet on that path. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Passing on the line of uncorrected teams, Mistya, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours. [[End of tape 48]] [[Start of tape 49]] Mrs. Larauri. Passing on the line of uncorrected teams, Mistya, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to you all again. To end discrimination based on nationality, that is the purpose of the initiative that Bildu puts us on the table today. It does not cease to be curious that a party that aims to build a Basque republic, that values and defends the autochthonous for the simple fact of being it and rejects everything that comes from outside for the same reason, today comes to us to talk about discrimination on grounds of origin. They request in their non-legislative proposal that the Basque Parliament urge the Basque Government to correct the alleged situations of discrimination in the recruitment of Osakidetza staff, but only on grounds of origin. The real underlying problem is left in the tinker. Gentlemen, the really discriminatory thing is that a Spaniard can't practice as a healthcare professional because he doesn't know Basque. That's discriminatory. And that's what's happening in the Basque Country. But that's not what they're talking about. The shortage of medical professionals is a ballast for the Basque Health System. In Primary Care there are no specialists in family and community medicine. A deficiency that has been further highlighted in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic and that has forced to hire contingent personnel so as not to further collapse health care. In this case of extreme urgency we understand that it has given priority to merit and excellence and not to the origin of professionals and their... nor their level of performance in Basque. But this apparent common sense that has prevailed in pandemic times because of the urgency of the situation I am very afraid it has been a mere mirage. The strangling rope of independence nationalism continues to drive away all professionals who want to oppose to get a place in Osakidetza. Because the reality, don't forget, is that doctors and nurses who certify an euskera PL2 get twice as many points as for an average doctorate, triple as for a master's degree or six times more than a bachelor's degree. That's discriminatory. Planting now that foreigners outside the European Union are hired on the basis of their worth and qualifications is very good. In Vox we have always defended merit and excellence. But can you explain to us why this same criterion of merit and excellence cannot be applied when selecting the best candidates for a public job offer from the Basque Government? I personally prefer the best surgeon to operate on me, not the one who has the best mastery of the Basqueldun. Once again they put forward their ideological interests and call for coexistence rooted in human rights and based on diversity to defend the recruitment of workers outside the European Union, but exclude linguistic diversity. What are we left with? Unfortunately, they again ignore the real problem faced by professionals who today want to access the Osakidetza stock exchange. Spanish professionals, from Cuenca, Seville or even from the Basque Country themselves who stay outside our health centers and hospitals, not because they are not excellent doctors, no, but because they are not Basque speakers. Currently this policy of euskaldunization imposed on Osakidetza, which leads to evaluate the euskera requirement above qualification and experience, is forcing many of our professionals to leave the Basque Country and is vetoing the entry of so many other doctors and nurses from all over Spain and of course from the rest of the world. The Basques deserve to have a quality health and in Vox we have the recipe, take note, and with this end: to have the best professionals, the most qualified, the best trained and experienced. The Basques need personnel competent in medicine, not to prove their competence in Basque, because that matter is of another discipline.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u109	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Hernandez, the word is wood.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u110	Thank you. Good afternoon. I think I have the advantage today, at least in this case, of Mrs Ubera, that I cannot be accused of trying to find a headline with adjectives that Mrs Larrauri has put on the table in front of the government. I didn't bring the initiative. Because my group, when it came to this situation, what we have done has been to ask for two appearances, both in the Committee on Health, with regard to Osakidetza, and in the Committee on Institutions, with regard to the part of the legal issue that you have spoken about and put on the table. I think I have that advantage over Mrs. Ubera. I hope so. We'll see what you think. Because, of course, my group is going to support the initiative brought about by a question. Beyond the legal debate, which I shall now speak of, we think it is a question of justice. And we believe it is at least a matter of justice to recognize what has happened and what has been done wrong. I am not looking for that headline, but it is true that there have been non-community people who have worked for our community, who have worked for the public when they have been needed and who do not have that chance to work for the public right now. And it's normal, because that affects these people's lives, it's normal, well, that voices are raised, that in this case because a union has denounced this happening. And therefore, we find it interesting that this union, which has been with these people directly, with these workers, can come to explain their vision. And this has been done wrong. Because I think the rule has been used for something that I think was positive, but when it was not necessary the same rule has been used, yes, so that those people do not continue. You can call it whatever you want. Of course there is no exact cause effect. No one's gonna say you... [[End of tape 49]] [[Initial of tape 50]] ... so that those people don't continue, you can call it whatever you want, of course there's no exact cause effect, no one's going to say you're not going to continue working because it's from where I don't know, of course my group doesn't say that's been done. But the practice, what has happened, is that it has also been understood during the pandemic that these people were valuable and that they could work in the public administration under certain conditions. And right now these people are on the street. And I believe that when it is at least fair to recognize that this has happened and now we would go to the legal, to the limits that agree, we do not live in the worlds of Yupi, we know that they exist. And I believe that the initiative that is being put forward also covers this issue and the government says: "Well, let's see it in the Public Employment Act", very well, we certainly do not object to it being seen in the Public Employment Act. We have not had a special urgency, but we would also have registered an initiative for it to be done in a certain way, but it is true that affecting how it affects people's lives, I think that also a principle is... that one should try to follow is... not the emergency one, but the sooner the better, the sooner the better. And it's true that we in the Public Employment Act have doubts, it's true, we're going to discuss it. I do not know what will last, there is an absolute majority that even if there are no agreements the Public Employment Act can go ahead and I understand that it will go ahead, but it is also a law that has a history of many years without going ahead. And so, if we talk about this concrete thing today, we are concerned. Of course, my group is going to make the effort to make sure that if... if it is going to be through the Public Employment Act, of course, make the effort so that in the future these situations that have consequences on the specific lives of people and that produce unjust situations cannot be given again. That the origin of the unjust situation is in a particular Government, that it is in a way of operating from a department, that it is within the legal limits, well, I am not going to enter into that debate now because I have heard all the interventions, but what I do think is important, that it should be recognized by the different groups that the situation of injustice has occurred without entering into the debate as to the origin or what ultimately produces that situation of injustice. That seems to me at this important moment because I missed it in this debate... It seems to me that the human side, which is to acknowledge that there are legal limits to certain things should not imply including that reflection from the point of view of what we can understand, and I am sure that not only the group that proposes it and the group that we are going to support, I am sure that they are not the only groups that can recognize that element of injustice that has occurred beyond, as I say, the debate of which is the origin and above all now what needs to be done so that it does not return..., so that it does not happen again. Mrs Ubera spoke of a possibility through a method for a single reading law proposal. It would also be an urgent reform, it is true that it would be an ad hoc legislature. Sometimes it is also a possibility to legislate ad hoc if we understand that the result is positive, even if the debate on the Public Employment Act is there. We are not going to oppose the debate in the Public Employment Act, we are going to support the initiative that is being presented and we are worried about the situation of these people, because I believe that everyone on the street understands, without going into that debate whether or not it was possible. I believe that everyone understands that during this pandemic, especially in the health sector, also in others, but in the health sector, there have been workers who have left their skins, including these non-Community people, and that now they do not have the opportunity to continue working when they have been leaving their skins in our public health. And that is a situation that is unfair beyond the debate on the legal limits and what needs to be done now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u111	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing on the turn of the answers, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u112	Look, today's proposal was just an attempt to face a situation of retirement. Because we are in a state of delocation, in a state of discrimination, and the opposition policy for the members of the Osagulus collides with the treaty for the migration signed by the Urkullu himself. And the terms and terms I have used have been those which are received in this treaty. I just don't know what moralistic rating. And this is not, as you have mentioned, a legal discussion, and this is not a legal discussion, that is a human discussion, a civil discussion, because they have worked in the pandemae, and it has been seen that there is no legal problem in the pandemae, because they have been used whenever they pleased. And therefore how it can be interpreted afterwards, when they say that they cannot make a contract by their original, by their origin. So it's exposed in there. It's normal to feel used to people. And this is not a great matter, this is not a great matter; but if we are the signs of a covenant, we ought to try to keep it beyond a picture, and beyond mere words. And as for us as Signers, we will act with exigence, we shall act with responsibility, because we understand that as a signer we must give an answer to all dissecrations, and to eliminate all discriminations. Because we want to be a village in the lobby, right? And that's the kind of difficulty, unfortunately, we're going to do the frequent contracts we're going to take to practice. And the question is: Is there really a will to carry out this emigration?... [[End of tape 50]] [[LI. THE beginning of the tape.]] ...the difficulties we have to lead to practice. And the question is: Is it really a will to fulfil this treaty of migration? I'd like to think that there's some will in the public business because it takes a step, but we're beginning to wonder that such situations should be solved as fast as possible, so we made a suggestion without waiting for it, and while the law is accepted for the Public World, we've tried to make a half-way here between us and ourselves, and then it might be useful for us to get an agreement in public business. It wasn't possible, and you'll understand that the proposition made when we see doubt is not a solution to that state of delocation at 100%. So we haven't been able to give a solution of this state of deviation, the question of the Osata, and it will continue to continue, and migration will remain intact, and the internal limits will remain there. It was not our intention to reflect upon the example of public employment; but it is certain that this proposition touches the model of public employment, and puts the law of public employment on the table, and the legal frame, beginning from Europe, through the State, and so forth, what are old, and how the times are not answered. For the end of public function ought to be to be the reflection of society, the end of the administration, we need a public administration, a public function to the service of society, to serve the people, to work with the people, the plural, ready, active, open. What a plural society is today, is prepared, is enabled, is flexible, yes? And, look, so far, EAAE, or Osata, or our official languages in the Public Administration have not been a problem, they have not been in any way difficult to get into the Administration. It is one of the characteristics of nations, and we are a people to receive it, at least we want it to be, that every language is respected and acknowledged, and that less than our natural language is respected and confessed. And I'm gonna ask you, do you know one person, the only person, the only one, who doesn't know the rest of Osac? One, one, one. And finally, as a signor of the Covenant, we feel ourselves responsible, and are to be Exercise; and in the presence of all the deputations which we identify, in the presence of all dissecration, to resist, and to search for solutions, as we have attempted this time. And they need to be done as fast as they can, because there are people's lives, people's projects. And that's no big deal. The treaty is very well received, very well received, and-"
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u113	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u114	I think it's very significant. One of the essential wants of universal ethics is not to do to others what we do not want others to do to ourselves.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u116	Thank you, Madam President. From the seat. The debate that we are having at the end is turning to the fundamental issue of this, because it serves little purpose for a law to empower the recruitment or access of both the public sector of foreign people, if then we all know that the main, I don't mean obstacle, but the main circumstance why these people won't be able to access a permanent position is because they don't know the language, in this case the Basque language. Maybe they speak the other language, maybe they speak the Spanish language, which by the way, it is hard to recognize it sometimes in this House, is that Spanish is a Basque language too, is that Spanish is a Basque language. This is something that seems to us difficult to recognize. I have lived, not in my own flesh, but at the university, for example, a few years ago, when the European Union treaties for the free movement of workers had not yet entered into force, I have seen how many highly qualified people could not access public universities, could not access a public post, had to stay in private universities at that time those who could, in foundations, and so on, I have lived. And then, man, tell me if I know a single person who hasn't worked in Osakidetza for not knowing Basque, man, I know, as he would say, hundreds. All the people who go directly, all the people who go to London, those who go to Madrid, my classmates who were studying medicine. But, come on, just ask me that question. It's just that I think it's a bit of a lack of knowledge of the authentic reality that of Euskadi. And this is a debate that we are going to have, the subject of language. It seems very good to me that a French-speaking French-speaking and Basque-speaking man can choose a permanent position, for example, in Basque public health because he speaks one of the two languages we have here, the Basque-speaking man. Why can't one Mr de Malaga choose a permanent position in Osakidetza, as long as he has the title, etc., and who doesn't know, in this case, the Basque? Why can't you do that? That, ladies and gentlemen, is the big question, and it is a debate that is there, and another thing is that you do not want to have it, but we will, of course, have it and it will be in the Public Employment Act. That, by the way, is not a law that will modernise the administration, because it already comes from old writings, but, well, we, as we usually do, will introduce amendments to improve the text, introduce criteria for improvement and, above all, put this on the table, because this is the situation. And, ladies and gentlemen, we are a tremendously ageing society, and the issue of health is very important. And if we don't take this seriously, this is going to be a long-term bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u117	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u118	Thank you, Madam President. I'm going out here, although I'm going to be brief again, to give you solemnity, a recognition, and it's that you've lost a bet with Mrs. Larrauri. Because I thought he was going to focus on what... [[51. End of tape]] [[Beginning of tape 52.]] ... to give them solemnity to a recognition, and it is that I have lost a bet with Mrs Larrauri, because I thought that the topic was going to focus on what it was and I have really seen that a certain cynicism has been distilled with which I did not count, and I have to give the reason to Mrs Larrauri, who saw it coming before me. And I say cynicism because in this second intervention we have been told about universal ethics, we have been told about human rights, saying that these people, who at a very specific time in the pandemic were doing a specific job and who have stopped doing so, because that job has ceased to exist, not from any source, no, it is not true, because this was an attack on fundamental and elementary rights. We've been drawn the pact for migration, etc., etc. And we are told that not wanting to keep them in the bags when they have never been in those bags, as you have been told, because they did not meet the requirements, is an attack on all those human rights and universal ethics. Kinism, because I read your initiative, in your initiative you tell me, in the exhibition section, "it makes no sense to restrict access to employment to citizens by its origin when they are prepared, have qualifications and linguistic profiles". Therefore, Mrs Ubera, these people who have been covering those posts whose origin is neither national nor European but do not have linguistic profiles do you also save them? You save them, too? Because that's not what he puts on his initiative, eh. That's not what he puts on his initiative. Therefore, I do not admit that at this point we are being criticized for any point against our attitude towards human rights, the pact against discrimination or the pact for immigration, let alone in universal ethics. If we had placed this in what it really is, I wouldn't have to be that hard right now. No, no, Here we have given ourselves a very punctual, very punctual fact, but it is true that it is a fact that has made us all reflect. We have a law in this House, which is casually the Basque Public Employment Act, where we have to discuss this. It is that there is an article in the bill, section 72.5 that speaks of this. And they say to me: "The government and the groups that support the government do not want to find a solution." But what do you mean, no? But what do you mean, no? If we are telling you, introduce amendments, introduce amendments and in this Parliament, which is where we pass the laws, debate and establish a solution. Well, that's what happened, that's what the two groups that we signed, the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, are proposing in the amendment that is going to be adopted today, and that's what is going to happen. I cannot admit that I come here in this second round to speculate that we are almost trampling on human rights because it is not true, it is not true and, moreover, it is very unfair because what you are defending in this initiative has very little to do with human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u119	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mrs. Laruri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u120	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Mrs Ubera, you say it's not a legal debate, it's a humanitarian debate, and I'm here all the time saying it was a matter of a moment and, of course, it's a legal issue now. Gipuzkoako Aldizkari Ofiziala. January 22, 2021, not so long ago. Azpeitiko Udala. Call for the selective process for the creation of a labour market. Administration for the City of Azpeitia, requirements, conditions of the candidates: to have Spanish nationality, nationality of the member states of the European Union and others. Bizkaia official newsletter. May 25, 2021, this year too. Ondarroa City Hall. Provision as a career officer, staffing positions, City Council of Ondarroa, requirements of applicants: have Spanish nationality or membership of the European Union and others. Let's see, do you believe that these municipalities are not solidarity?, that they do not agree with the Social Pact for Migration that you are saying?, that they are not plural?, ez say malguak? Eta ez dakit zer gehiago esan duzula. That the government... All those qualifications attributed to the government and the lehendakari, do you believe that these municipalities are not?, do they not have them?, are they not solidarity?, are they not humanitarian?, are they against the migration challenge?, are they not host peoples?, are they not sensitive? I don't think so, do I? I mean, they're complying with a law, like everyone else, like all the administrations, and until it changes, that in this it seems that we are, we have to apply it. And here it does not apply for an equal subject of conviction, it applies for a subject of legal obligation. So please do not think of us, do not try to mix with the Social Pact on Migration that the Basque Government did indeed push, but that this is another issue, which is that it is a very specific issue: conditions of access to public employment, and that there is a requirement that we all know. And now we have it, we have an amendment in the law that we have here, if it is not that we are going to include it now because you have brought the initiative, it is that the bill has included it long ago, and the bill has already been approved by the Governing Council. And now the times will actually depend on us, on the extensions we ask to submit amendments, on what we delay in meeting, on many issues, but we will try to be agile. I understand that we will all be willing and that I understand that we will all be trying to get this bill to come forward at last, because in addition to these issues, there are many other things that affect people, public employees, people. And it is not true that at a time when they were used, not, not, not, not, that when there were no more staff, when there were no staff in bags that met the requirements, there were other forms of recruitment, via resumes and, among them, on time, as I said before, there were non-Community staff who did not meet the requirements, but were not in bags either before or now. And it's not that "what an injustice they're at home now," that there are also people in the bags... [[End of tape 52]] [[Start of tape 53]] ... And among them, on time, as I said before, there were non-Community staff who did not meet the requirements, but who were not in stock exchanges either before or now. And it's not that unfair that they're home now. That there are also people in the bags who are at home. They were temporary contracts for a very timely time. And those needs ended, changed, ended. Job opportunities are what they are. And those people are at home, just like many others who either meet or do not meet requirements. The last one in the bag will say that what unfair thing I am at home, that there is discrimination? Well, man, I understand you're gonna want to work. But there is no discrimination here, there is a change of job possibility. And well, used, besides, it's said. Well, no, that's perfectly explained. Elkarrekin Podemos says, "Well, since it's a reason for people and it's so... it could legislate ad hoc." Man, is the Government of Spain in which you are legislated ad hoc on this matter? Man. I mean, please, let's not be... Let's be sensible, no. Good. You can (...?) Things... We can start to take out every section of the Public Employment Act and legislate it through the one-stop procedure, but, man, it doesn't look like it's right, no. In any case, if an assessment was made that was deemed appropriate, it could be done. But man, don't ask here what you don't ask there. That basic legislation can do that too. You can also push that through the ministries or government to which your party is a party. And, on the other hand, lastly, the subject of linguistic profiles. Well, we certainly don't get in there. We understand that this is not the debate. It's one more requirement. But, well, it does seem... In this debate we understand, of course, that he is over who is the best doctor. Well, here's a matter of respecting linguistic rights. But, yes, there is some inconsistency in Bildu, the same consistency in the usual speech of the People's Party, but, of course, EH Bildu, which are sometimes demanding and exquisite with this question, here it seems to be forgotten and of course everything else is missing... We all lack humanity. We are in a position to modify that requirement. And well, on the way we'll meet. We'll see what the result is. A lot of thieves.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Mist must not speak. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u122	Yeah. Just to answer Mrs. Larrauri to one of her... Well, his... of his final intervention on our presence in the Government of Spain. Firstly, I am a member of this Parliament, of the Basque Parliament. We are talking about a debate that has brought a group, not mine, on an issue that has occurred in Euskadi. I do not know, surely there will be, I do not know if in other administrations, if in other autonomous communities, if in other territories the same has happened or not, if non-community people have been hired during the pandemic. I don't know. But I am in this Parliament. And this debate is here. And if I have to say something to the groups that support the Government and the Government, I have to say it on the basis of what's going on here. In addition, the basic legislation has been discussed in the debate, the EBEP, already takes the possibility. It's just a debate here. Beyond the differences that we may have in the assessment, as I have told you before, of whether there is responsibility or no responsibility on the part of Osakidetza, on the part of the Basque Government, etc., or whether it responds only to the legal situation with the legal limits, beyond that, in this debate I believe that the autonomous community has the capacity, because it is covered by the basic legislation, that in the future these situations cannot be given back. You say, "This is already covered in the Basque Public Employment Bill." Okay. And I said, "We're willing to do that." But what's going on? That behind there are people. So, if anyone proposes, that wasn't my group, ad hoc legislation... When I say ad hoc, I mean to legislate... It's a very concrete thing. Of course I do. Why not? It was not on the table, because no one has proposed the urgent procedure, it has been spoken, but they have proposed a law. Yes, it would be a possibility. Because just as it could have been done before, before the Public Employment Act, it is true that in the Government it has not, but neither has my group at any time asked it, it is true, but it is possible. It wouldn't be bad if the target were shared. Because it can be through a legal amendment of a law, it can be through a concrete law. Therefore, it could be done. And I do not share, as I say, because you say to me, "Do in Spain what you are asking us to do here." Because what we are proposing here is for the Basque Government to do so, because the Basque Government can do it or the Basque Parliament can do it through the Public Employment Act, which I have never discussed at any time. But also the possibility for the Basque Government to push it, which was called for, is also a possibility. So, I don't think it's a question of throwing balloons out, especially for those of us who haven't gotten into what you've defined as the search for a headline to say that you've used people and left them on the street.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u123	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. After discussion, we'll vote the original text of the other proposal as the EH Collector. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given at table, 72; votes given, 74; supporters 26; contraries, 48; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u124	So it's not accepted. Next up we vote for the whole of the Basque Groups of Popular-Ciudadans. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters 7; the contrary, 61; abstaining, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u125	So it's not accepted. And finally, the Basque Socialists, we vote for the full correction of the Eucabertists. We can vote... [[End of tape 53.]] [[LIV. Start of tape]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given at table, 72; votes given, 74; supporters, 41; contrarys; 1, 32; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-30.u126	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at three thirty-four in the afternoon.
