ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, we will call the People of Aina, the People of Law. Good morning. I remember that 33 lords have already adopted the vote. First point in theme list: "A full correction to the law project of the young man. The discussion and the vote. Mrs. Artolallun has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u1	Madame President, President, head of the department, members of the legislature, good days to all. Allow me a few minutes to present to you the kindnesses that, in our opinion, has the youth bill that the Basque Government has introduced in this House. This text is the result of the work of the technical team of the Youth Directorate and a contrast made in the last legislatures. I regret that EH Bildu opts for the whole amendment. I'm sorry they haven't shown much interest from the beginning. I encourage the parliamentary groups, also EH Bildu, to continue to work on the search for agreements. And I will tell you a secret: when this preliminary draft was sent by the Governing Council to Parliament, it received a warm message from an ex-parliamentarian of the opposition. In that wasap, he was very pleased with his constructive contribution, which, in his view, would have made it possible to improve the text prepared by the Government team. I encourage the current opposition groups to also work together to improve our text with their contributions. I encourage you to continue to negotiate to achieve greater consensus on what will be the first youth law of the Basque Autonomous Community. I reiterate to you from this rostrum, as I have assured you privately, our willingness to reach new agreements. And for this government, youth is our social capital, and we are committed to promoting a common and coordinated policy that offers Basque youth a cross-cutting action that facilitates their emancipation and the development of their own project of life and, if they so wish, of family. We are going to deal with this through the youth law that I have already tabled in parliamentary committee. In this debate, it is necessary to remember that Euskadi lacks a youth law, and so far all the projects submitted have failed. The aim of this law is to establish a regulatory and competitive framework for the development of our youth policies within the Euskadi Autonomous Community. This law establishes the regulatory and competence framework in this area, and incorporates the youth perspective into all Basque public policies in a cross-cutting manner. We believe that we are faced with an opportunity to initial a law that will consolidate the work of Basque institutions. This law will be the instrument that will give greater strength to the commitment of Basque political actors to comprehensive youth policies. The law will give stability to a form of work validated by time and assumed and driven by institutions. Berriz diot: gazteriaren euskal legeak gazteriarengan eragin zuzena duten politica sektorialen koordinazioan urteetan zehar egindako ahalegin handia soytzea dakar, eta, hortaz, euskal erakunde guztiek baliozkotutako bilbidea burutzea. As I said – I insist – the Basque Youth Law involves the consolidation of a great effort of years of work in the coordination of sectoral policies that directly affect youth and, therefore, the completion of a path validated by all Basque institutions. This new Basque Youth Law will see in a stable and secure way the positive action measures in which the departments of the Basque Government, the three outlaws and Eudel, as well as youth entities and young people themselves are involved. Moreover, this law regulates general purposes, and regulates the handling of the hands of the treasury, of the forum, and of the municipal towns. As a general objective, it seeks to set policies that favour the autonomy and emancipation of Basque youth – this is something we have been reiterating as a country's objective –; also, to ensure minimum quality in the provision of services and equipment specifically intended for the promotion of youth status; and, thirdly, to extend the channels of participation and interaction of Basque youth with institutions. We already had extensive legislation on juvenile matters, but we still lacked a law that ordered and promoted it. In short, it must be remarked that accepting this project is a decisive step to achieve the first law of the Basque youth. He's trying to guarantee the quality of services and equipment directed to young men. The law spreads between 12 and 30 years of youth. This law strengthens the commitment of the institutions to the young, and stakes on the production of new instruments, in order to encourage the younger, and to make our young men turn their lives into reality. The profound social changes that have affected our entire society in recent decades, and young Basque people in particular, make it essential to have a Basque youth law, a Basque law that consolidates and strengthens a Basque youth system, or, if they prefer, a Basque youth service system. This law is defined in a context of transformation of the labour market and housing, which translates into high rates of unemployment or precarious youth employment, on the one hand, and, on the other, into high housing prices, both on property and on rent, far removed from the resources available to young people. This social reality also hinders the life projects of young people, and is causing a considerable delay in the average age of departure from the family home of origin, which does not meet the wishes of young people. The average age of emancipation of young people in Euskadi was 30.2 years in 2019, without having experienced any change in a decade. The impact of this reality on people's life projects and on Basque society is something we cannot afford. We have a responsibility to facilitate their life projects and equal opportunities, and we need the contribution of young people. On the other hand, the socialization processes of children, adolescents and young people are today more complex, with more diverse situations and socialization agents: parents, peers, schools, social networks..., new roles with different weights than they had in the past, and interacting in a different way. In drafting this law, we have reflected, for example, on the reality of children, adolescents, young migrants, on the diversification of family models and the transformation of social roles assigned to parents. In addressing this law, we have considered the relationship between families and schools, the most vulnerable groups of young people or the impact of social networks on socialization processes and on children's and children's access to information and certain content at very early ages. The processes of transition to adulthood are increasingly diverse, as a result of a growing diversity of situations, expectations, values, options and lifestyles of young people. Thus, a context of greater complexity of vital transitions is configured. We therefore believe that it is vital to consolidate a cross-cutting youth policy aimed at promoting the real equality of young people, ensuring the effective exercise of their rights and promoting their access to productive means, social inclusion and well-being. This momentum for equality must obviously incorporate a growing gender perspective. These cross-cutting policies should enable them to deploy their life projects and participate in society with real leadership and pay particular attention to those facing situations of special difficulty or multiple discrimination from an intersectoral approach. But we also consider it necessary to promote child and youth promotion through specific activities, services and equipment that accompany the increasingly diverse and complex socialization processes of girls, boys, adolescents and young people. These services should guide actions both to the enjoyment of each stage and to promote maturation, learning and increasing autonomy since childhood. With the development of this law, we will order and strengthen the resources available to us, setting up for the first time a Basque youth system, or, if you prefer, as I told you, a Basque youth service system. This system will enable the promotion of cross-cutting youth policy through instruments such as the Basque Youth Strategy or the interinstitutional and interdepartmental coordination bodies. This system will enable youth promotion to be promoted through a network of public responsibility, with a defined catalogue of specific services and equipment. As he put it, the new law focuses on three major objectives, and comes to structure and promote three major areas as means for their respective objectives. First, the emancipation and effective exercise of the rights of young people recognized by sectoral legislation. The law understands emancipation in a broad sense, as the development of one's own project of life with autonomy, and emancipation in a strict sense, as a way out of the family home. The law is committed to regulatory consolidation and the promotion of cross-cutting policies, with inter-departmental and inter-institutional coordination as means. The law proposes and implements two new instruments from the Basque Government: one, the Interinstitutional Coordination Body on Youth in Euskadi, and the second, the Interdepartmental Youth Commission. Secondly, the promotion of children and young people; the promotion of the development of girls, adolescents and young people and the enjoyment of these stages of life in their two dimensions, both as a vital stage, with value and meaning in itself, and as a stage in which the foundations of a future project of autonomous life are laid. Specific activities, services and equipment intended for the promotion of children or young people are set up as means for this purpose. Thirdly, the participation of young people, both partners and non-partners, as a fundamental objective to respond to a need for young people and also for society, which needs their contribution and talent. The law establishes the Euskadi Youth Council, EGK, as a fundamental means. The law enhances the development of new participatory dynamics with young people, with particular attention to governance and, in particular, the design, implementation and evaluation of cross-cutting policy and specific activities, services and equipment. The law prioritizes the promotion of youth initiatives to respond to their needs and promote their role. I would like to conclude by clarifying some of the main obligations arising from the adoption of this law, which are key elements for its deployment and effectiveness. In the area of cross-cutting policies, with the main objective of emancipation, the new law provides for the elaboration of the Basque Youth Strategy, establishing inter-institutional lines of intervention according to the context of each moment, but considering those provided for in article 18 of the law. The implementation of the new law will lead to the planning and evaluation of youth policy in the autonomous, foral and local administrations, on a strategic and annual basis, aligned with the Basque Youth Strategy, including an annual report whose results will be made public. Evaluation of the impact of all future regulations or plans on young people should also be initiated prior to their adoption. The impact on youth should also be taken into account in monitoring the implementation and evaluation of laws, regulations and plans, in order to provide guidance and allegations. The thrust of the support services established by this Act will be reflected in the following lines of work: youth policy promotion and coordination; studies and documentation; training of persons working, professionally or not, with young people, persons with political responsibilities related to youth and members of youth associations; counselling and consultancy, including senior volunteer counselling; and support resources such as the Basque Youth Observatory. With regard to the deployment of child and youth promotion through activities, services and equipment, following the adoption of the new law, we will undertake the development of the catalogue of services and equipment, direct offer services, and the promotion of educational leisure activities. In addition, the law will boost the dynamism of service networks, youth information, schools and facilities and shelters. In terms of participation, the adoption of the law will lead to the development of new models for the participation of young partners and non-partners and the strengthening of the youth dialogue with the Euskadi Autonomous Community Administration through the Euskadi Youth Council, as well as the training of actors involved in youth policies and services in participatory methodologies. And, with regard to interinstitutional and interdepartmental coordination, the organisation and operating regime of the Interdepartmental Youth Commission of the Euskadi Autonomous Community Administration and the Euskadi Interinstitutional Youth Coordination Body will be implemented. Coordination on youth issues should also be organised within each department of the Administration of the Autonomous Community and their representation in the Interdepartmental Commission should be appointed. Today, we are discussing an entire correction, but I intend to continue to publish my will to the agreement, in order to obtain extensive agreements in the final revelation of this law. In the appearance which I introduced the law of the young man, I pointed out it also in my meetings with all the members of the Chamber of Parliament. I am prepared to share my opinions, and to cultivate what we might encounter in the middle. I hope these agreements can be possible, and thank you very much for that su compromiso. Today we are discussing, as I said, an amendment to the whole, but I want to continue to move my hand out to reach broad agreements. I moved him at the time of the appearance at which I introduced the Youth Law, and I moved him to all the parliamentary groups in this House at the bilateral meetings we held, with the aim of sharing impressions and seeing if we could find ourselves on the way. I trust that these agreements will be possible, because the matter to which they relate is very important for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The Representative of the EH Group, holds the word in order to defend its full correction. Ms. Saez de Egilaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u3	Congressman, thank you, and good day. I think we can't start another way today. What happened last Saturday in the Wild Forest Park has no place in our country or in our society. The violent homophobic attack that young Ekain Perrino of 23 years endured is not a coincidence, and I'd like to charge him from here. What happened to Ekaini is not a particular problem, violence against LGTB+ is not a point. Vice is that our body and sexuality have no freedom to live. We must go to the root of hatred and neglect, not wishing to destroy every gesture, word, and speech, if we wish to have the rights of all, and the worthy lives of all. We're trying to tell the cowards who attacked Ekain Perrino that they're not going to pass, and that they don't have a nest in our crowd, we're not going to give a single step back. We want to tell Ekaini, and all the people who are constantly attacked by LGTB+, that we are with you and that we will not despair. In the same way, we also call for the mutations in the Wildland town at seven o'clock this afternoon. We wish to proclaim the freedom of pride, because there is also a right, a necessity to live in freedom, because a just, equal, and free society is possible. I'm a phobias who quits. A big hug from Ekaini (I hope) from all of us. It is time that the necessity of the law of the young was declared in this legislature. And many of you who have sat down in your armchairs, or have just sat down, with Arba, Bizkai, and Gipu, without the law of youth, have spoken excitedly from these microphones. The young of our lands are of the least part of those who have not a law of their own, in comparison with the rest of the Spanish state's communities. In this case, however, you have avoided comparing Scalcal Autonomia with the rest of the community in this matter. This law is not an historical hicto, but it has been stated in this legislature, a great remark, which some of you have abscesssion that put the government of some of you in a very bad situation. Even then the newspapers were talking about the law of youth, the headlines opened up on this subject, but the divisional interests triumphed over it, and private interests once more rose up to the general interest. I have seen, by curiosity, the discussion of that day, which you said of this offence, or those who said it, and I believe that the Socialist Party, in this case, was the last resort to the defence of the interests of the young. I don't know exactly what this law had on its nerves and badness, but from this microphone you stopped talking about the young ones for the next time. And the next few days are here, the future of the past has come. And in this parliament where you've worked on the pre-historical motex that seems to us, the chronicles of the future we've been robbed want to occupy the centre too. I entered the July with you two, and many things have happened since then. I've been saving in a folder news about young people and the Basque People. And I'll tell you how fat that folder has been. And I want to tell you, too, as I have told you so often, that we young people have marked the political book for a long time. You know, I'm gonna fix some structural issues and you're gonna have to do with this GIBP and the Eu-D-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-Y-E-E-P-E. And we have many reasons: The economic crisis that has lasted from 2008, which condemned us to the crumbs of savage capitalism; the chOVID-19 coronerus, or the system of public policies, which will enable us to stop and survive our lives; the sysmmetic crisis which has increased and accelerated and accelerated us, the violent capitalism of savage capitalism, the crisis or crisis of experiments, the terrible explosion of the bubble of what has been said and sworn to us, the survival of our vital conditions, and which will assist us in the final course of public conditions, as the last generation has been reads us, and the politicals of those who have no prospects, and who have not been able to collect for the last ten years of our unfavourless, those who have not been able to collect, and to collect the ten hundred and ten hundred and ten times of our unreachable, which have not been able to collect, and which are not paid for our unpaid, those who have been able to collect the stocks of our unpaid, and which have been employed by the ten and which are not paid for our unpaid, and which have been employed in our new and which are not paid for our unpaid by the ten and which are not paid for our unpaid, and which are not paid for our unpaid, and which are not paid for the ten and which are not paid for our unpaid, and which are not paid for the ten and which are not paid for the ten years, and which are not paid for our unpaid, and which are not paid for our unpaid, and which are not paid for our unpaid, and which are not paid for our unpaid, the ten years, and which are not paid for our unpaid, and which are either by the ten and which are not paid for our unpaid, and which are not paid for the ten years of our unpaid, and which are not paid for the ten years of our unpaid, and which are not paid, and which are not paid for the ten and which are not paid, and which are not paid for our new-timely, and which are not paid for our new-timely-timely-timely, and which are not paid for the ten and which are not paid for our unpaid, by the stockable politicians, and which are not paid for our new-timely, the stockable politicians or so many years of our new What we want and need has gone too far from reality for years and years. It's costing us a lot of progress. And our daily demands specific readings. What are we kids? The motor of this town, the present and the future? And then how is it possible that we should decide against ourselves and against ourselves instead of deciding for ourselves? Where are our interests? Where are our desires? Where is the right to build, invent, and do our life projects? Where are we young people in the politics of this country? Youth, future and frustration are words of the same equation. From small we learned that mathematics has a lot or everything of logic, but we do not get into our heads that the equations are solved without clearing all the equis, without taking into account all the variables, which is in fact a harmful result for us. We do not understand resignation, in general, but less in institutional policy. To resign ourselves to living worse than our mothers? Resign ourselves to the vital precariousness, that life is worth nothing, that you tell us that everything is going well, as life sinks and crumbles around us and takes our friends ahead? Do you really think that in front of this you will have a quiet, modest youth? We raised the alarm a long time ago, and we won't stop until our lives are taken. It's completely over fiction. We've all had the sense of living in a nightmare or a Hollywood film quartet for the past year: a mundane pandemia, and every moment's out of the streets, the borderings in the streets, the mastilla in class 25; the schools are piled up in industry, the schools are shut, the classes are shut, the students are shut up, the university windows open, the winter freeze; the bars close, open, go out, go into the house, no feasting, and no space to support each other. We've lived the distopia of being alone and alone, the installation of non-directional wanderings. But how did we get here? It's worse, too; it's hard for us to remember the days before the pandemia. But, even if it costs us, we know that the present situation is not a coincidence, and that public policies which preceded pandemia brought us into capital before life, and that we are brought here today by slipping for it. The right of housing isn't guaranteed. The real age of going home from the original is rhin and what we'd like to do is narha, 24-year-old, non-matched. We pay rents over $750 for coppers, dark, small, and older weights. The market of private rents exploded in front of our noses. And no one here puts boundaries on them. With the student's letters, he speculates in our capitals, especially here, and no one says anything. The clerks are pretors. The young majority has partial labor contracts. We have the greatest rate of temporary jobs in Europe. And young people are cheap business hands. We say more: The young man's hands had been tested for years, thanks to the beauty of the Basque Munch. As the Prefect is of structure, life cannot be carried forward by projects, to imagine the future. That is to say, it is impossible for the younger to act. And we need to talk about the donation, but with grave letters, let's have the full ability to decide our lives. The present state requires us to be led from a particular choice to a general right, and even from our society. It seems that the misery of young women are only morbid headlines. It gives us the feeling that, in the face of the cries of despair of the youth, in this law of the jungle where the one who has the most is saved and whom his mothers and fathers defend, the Government of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa makes deaf ears again; not because they do not hear it or do not care, simply because a barbarity has been normalized that youth is precarious, another stage of life, that you tell your grandchildren next to the chimney. But it's just that we, neither granddaughters nor chimneys nor anything. The world you promised us no longer exists. We've called that a crisis of spectrum. So far, the collective imagery has fallen. Imagine, imagine, and live is not possible. We have done our duty. Now what? Now it's taking a lot of trouble to move forward. Four of the young men have had a feeling of depression. Now, many young men and many have committed suicide. Do we know what that means? Where are the tools we need to lead our lives to? Will no one listen to this impression of mistake in the conditions of life of these young men? And in this state there is nothing else: we must go forward or backward, and to stand still is to retreat. This law has the power to subvert the present situation, to place the young in the centre, and to create the means of transforming our lives. We believe that it is possible, because the law we young men deserve is possible, and the public policies we deserve may be put into action. Do you believe that the Basque legislature can do effective politics for young people? Well, to believe it, one must see it, for words must necessarily be accompanied by actions. It is time, the time to change course, to plant and mark a road map, which will be based on a youth law. For what? For, simply, not to abandon an entire generation; so that we see that institutional politics is worth something, that those of the green armchairs that go out in the Teleberri with long faces every week are with us; that this institution takes care of what happens in our streets, in our neighborhoods and in our homes; that people's lives be changed, but for the better. But today we saw the opposite. You read this important moment carefully, and instead of marking a law which has been very short of us, we've got a law which has not been able to put the ceremony into the center of all public policies. You threw it into the Banner: "The purpose of the law of youth is to descend to 28 years of civilization." Well, first of all, we must say that if the object of this government is to descend from thirty-eight years of fertility, it seems to us that ambition is lacking in this object, especially in the twenty-four years of interest. And secondly, we would like to know how this is done by this law. And I'm serious, and I'd like to know if somebody could explain it to me in this Chamber after reading this law. I said, too, in the play of the chief physician; the chief physician, I told you that day, and I repeat: 'it's no use for us to say 'it's going to get bigger', 'it's gonna get fucked up.' For us, for once, verbs must be declared in the present, and it cannot be left to-morrow that can be done. The law of youth has always been important, but it seems to us at this moment that it is indispensable. Everything could not be brought here to-day; a general law about the younger could not be brought without a present reading. You've made us a very obvious law. Well, you've marked a way of following up with young friends and similar programs, or at least you've given him the chance to do that. This law may have been introduced ten years ago, or may be introduced ten years ago, because, as far as it determines nothing, it offers nothing to change. We have learned that as the conditions vary, the laws ought to be adapted to such conditions, have we not? In the middle of a Pandemia, you want to discuss a pandemy law a few days hence in this legislature, right? Now, in a generation marked by the present state of affairs, prerogatives, uncertaintys, and unaccompromising rights, we think they were actually real opportunities of offering something better. "O seca, en estos momentos, seguimos seedo lo mismo, para lo mismo, y dicendo que haemos algo, sine hacer abuloutante nada." Well, we don't think it's fair, it's just that our public needs a law on the axis. And of course it's not a whim. The answers to public institutions must be given which will give issue to affairs, and which will give certainty, as the solutions which we give to-day do not repeat the same questions to-morrow. To do this we must anticipate the hinges; they must be able to foresee the future possible. Today, we're talking about young people, or some people might think so, but it's not. To build a stout young manly law, an effective one, who is able to anticipate the hinges, opens the possibility of an integral response to us as a people. We young men are not a sector, we are not a collective. Under such circumstances ours will be one of the most vulnerable generations of all time, forced to endure the feeble conditions of life. We need tools to open what is possible to young men, for they may improve the lives of future young men, but in general it is possible to build and create a law which will cause them all over the world. There are a lot of people who are saying that the cracks between generation and generation are getting bigger. And yes, there is an abism between our generation and the generations before, but we believe that giving them an answer would lead to a minimum normal leap. We young people don't fight only because we're young, we fight for commitment to this country. We wish our ancestors to have worthy pensions, which we have also opened to us the means of being worthy pensions. Our predecessors have made the feminist populace a reality. And that's what we've got. We'll continue to break through the way to the Basque People, because we can't stop, work in the Basque Country, learn and live any person who wants to live will have a decent life. The road is a union between generation and generation, and to-day we need certain attentions to our young men, to deserve life. We're all very wrong if we think we're talking about a simple law. No, we speak of the projects of life which we offer to this people of the next decades, and above all of which, in a popular project which we have not invented, and which we have not been able to build, our generations and the interests which our successors have represented. This government has made us an immense escilator with this law, and has even given us the imaginary headline: "He's ready to accept the law of youth without youth. And I don't understand how such abism could be between this government and our young people. What we read in the paper, which we every day see on the news, what we see in the street, what we feel, what friends tell us about, does not agree with what you have said in this law. And we would really like to know if you've decided who or who you've talked to in order to complete this law. Tell me, please, who have told you that, of course, the situation we live in is momentary and what, and that with a supersimple law we are sufficient. We seem to forget that our job is to legislate, but we know for whom: for the people. And now it is up to us to legislate for young women, with us, asking, talking, debating, collecting all the existential doubts of youth, elbow by elbow. No, you can't make laws for youth in an office and make it look like something's done. Between worrying and busy there's a big leap. It was not the time to take care of making a sinsorga law, but it was the time to worry about youth and talk to us and design a law with and for young women. You know, it's not enough for us to face the present situation, it's short. And if you think this is something, and if you're content with what you've done, then, in our opinion, you don't know the young men's needs and interests, and you have no ambition to stand for them. What are proposals in this law above 50 articles? How is it possible that this law should not say anything? In this law there are no certainties, handles, for the law itself is uncertain. We do not know what is proposed in order to overcome the Prefect, and to ensure worthy conditions of labour. The Prefect is missing the commitment to not funding for money. In many companies, fraud practices are made. What's Red Beetle gonna do against them? Our young people make miserable wages. That's a structure problem. I wonder if he's ready to change the Red Beetle. You want me to give you decent wages? If we read the law, we cannot know, for it says nothing of light. As far as I'm concerned, you want to get out of the original house for 28 years. Well, there's something, but that's a little bit ambitious. How can that be done? In point of fact, it is said in the law: "Youngs will develop an active policy for getting easier of a decent apartment." How is it possible, in fact, that one of the most important factors which cannot be given, should not be able to limit the immense high prices of rent? Why don't you talk about the right of giving judgment? We believe that the giving is not much more to leave our parents' houses; that we ought to discuss the right of making and carrying up projects according to our own lives and decisions; and that the public policies which they will give us certainty must be designed in this respect. Our proposals have been clear: that it should be granted a right, and that it should be placed in that way all the politics of youth. The goal, the execution, and the means, the guarantees of the right of execution by public policies. In the presence of a traffic-prefect and a life-prefect, a function of quality, that all contracts financed by the public administration should be unlimited, complete labor, and always a minimum salary, 1,200 euros. Let the HUD do something too. If the high rents choke us, and the absence of the housing does not permit us to live, let us increase the decent housing for the young, raise the people's rentals, remove empty houses to the rent, encourage the attorney-interest, and make the private rent fast. We need time to live and enjoy. To love and to protect each other, we need time to look after each other. We need alternatives to young people's leisure, so that we can create our own space, and that public help is guaranteed, and the real chances of continuing to study are endless. You've brought us a law full of inspection here in this year. "It will be cleared up, it will be pushed, the measures will be taken, it will be settled." We want to know what those operations will become. And we can only accept the law by which our lives are assured of modification, by which we are engaged to this people. You have shown us what we feared, but I also have to admit that I, with whom I was falling, expected something a little better. I was expecting a moderately dignified law that would give us room for improvement. But it gives no room, because it is ineffective; it seems to us to be ineffective. You have shown us that you do not make laws for young men, that we have nothing to say to young men, and that, though the situation we now live in is characteristic of prerogative and impeachment, yet this is not the prerogative of the Government of Arcaba, Bizkai, and Gipuzicus; that, instead of a stout strategy, you will continue to place patches; The future isn't a remote matter, it's tomorrow's. And these challenges must already be reached, for they must be anticipated. It seems to us that we must leap, in front of a grey, sad, exhausted pattern, a little color. The public must trust to the projects where life is to be placed in the centre. Porlan for money? No, thank you. Money for the people to have real lives worth living. And we will not refuse, because we wish to live more worthy to-morrow than to-day, a greater certainty than to-day. And you must listen to this and answer to it by institutions, which is enough. What's going on? You don't see us? Or rather you don't want to see us? Don't we protest enough? Well, in the papers we are trending topic. And the theme, at this point, is singing alone. Looks like it's gonna be the summer hit. 2020ko urriak 12, Diario Vasco ko titulara: "The generation of broken dreams"; 2020ko azararen 22, El Correo ko titulara: "The pandemic undresses the drama of youth unemployment in Euskadi"; igande Honetako El País eko portada: "Life is late for me". And we want to be on the headlines, but we're giving them other headlines. We're not going to refuse the protagonism we're owed to as a generation, and we deserve it. And we want other headlines, e.g. "Ratester fight has forced the private rent in the Basque Country," "The struggles and labors of the students have managed to lower public rates of college," "the youth and pensioners, the laborers who have worked together for generations have opened the way to receive decent pensions," "but in the first place, it has been agreed that they have a right to be decent pensions." According to the investigations, the mental health of young people has improved and new worries. What do we do with the free time? You have tried, at all costs, to say and imagine that among these four walls we do not hold them; that our generation has been worse than yours; we do not know what we want. But you took what we wanted without asking what we expected. And, yes, we're already asking for accounts, and in the future we're asking for accounts. This law must be built for the millennals of today, for the Z generation today, and for the others tomorrow. They say each one sings his own time. We sing to life. Common experience makes us generation, collective identity. We build the truth together. We sing to ourselves. And every historic moment has specialized soundstripes. I've always felt that we don't understand each other, as if we talked different languages. And music is said to be universal. And to understand each other, and to listen to our concerns, I wanted to bring you here today a piece of the band of sound from our generation. "Me reporto tu zone," and I'm going to start singing. "I want to shout until my soul is torn. As soon as the world makes a evacuation formation, someone asked where the emergency exit might be. And it wasn't spring this year. The ground dogs are asking for it. He denies what is meant by the teenager inflection, and he denies the choice for the breach of the road. Young men are good for later. Maybe one day, but for what day? "I don't know. "Much fun says there's no money, but what a coincidence they're missing." "Too bad for money, full of work. Five days at the factory, two days off, all the same way, we're all capable. Our life is always for sale." "Liars, smiles and poppies. Speeches, newspapers, bankers and trilers. They steal you and yell at you. They steal you and yell at you, and what you don't have they take away from you too. Because it's indecent, it's indecent people without homes and houses without people." "And I feel a need for something lately. I'm not as usual, because I've wasted a lot of time." "Retales de una vid, unsystemibilundo." "This is our dear generation." And we're not asking for a little bit. "Now is our time, take all our plans forward." "I can't sing tomorrow, I'm singing today." "To each other, over and over." "A heart burning, truth in hand, it will never be unless we are to-day." And you know what? We'll figure something out. And in the future we'll have a thousand and a thousand motives happy to sing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egilaz. Does anyone want to participate in the opposite round? Explicacion de voto or the opposite round? [[Pause]] On the other side. Well, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u5	Good morning, everyone. We are going to vote against the amendment to the whole of Bildu, and we are going to do so not because we fully agree with the Youth Act of the Basque Government, but because we believe that we are voting for something related to youth that, in addition, comes from Bildu is absolutely negative. We cannot do anything other than denounce the corrupt idea that you have of young people, who only use as a mere instrument to exercise political violence, without giving them the slightest interest in matters such as dignified life, because, according to the behaviors that you yourselves defend, dignified life is that which is lived under your own precepts, something inadmissible in a modern democracy, where concepts such as freedom, reflection and critical thinking are the fundamental pillar. Having said that, the truth is that since Vox we believe that this is a law that will not be overly useful for young Basques. Rather we understand it as one more attempt to manipulate, to manipulate what? Minds from public authorities, limiting, directing and conforming to those who begin to think for themselves, to those who begin to be critical with parts of the nationalist regime. I am referring, of course, to the widespread indoctrination by the great Basque politicians, the great political parties, Bildu and PNV. And it is that, with this amendment, the dispute is precisely how to indoctrinate our young people. The rest of the issues present in the law, such as the housing issue, are merely tools to justify the set of ideological postulates they intend to instill in their brains. And, look, I say tool because it is enough to read the project to see that nothing is specified or given concrete measures on how to alleviate the problems that young people are experiencing. Undoubtedly, they have the diagnosis and they have done very well: promoting emancipation, entering the labour market for young people... But they have chosen not to do anything about one of the most important diseases in society: youth precariousness. In conclusion, we will have more time to talk about the matter, but, of course, we say no to the Bildu amendment. In Vox we say yes to freedom, we say yes to free young people, without ideological entanglements of any kind. With what authority does Bildu go to tell young people what to do or think? One thing is for sure: the least they need is for politicians to come and tell them how to live, the same ones who have also condemned them to precariousness.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u6	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Wants to be part of the response shift... ? When the discussion's over, we'll vote for the bill to come back or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 41; the votes given, 74; the supporters 21; the contrary, 47; abstaining, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u7	So he won't be back with the Law Project. Next, we'll go to the vote. Together, Podemos-IU... No, I'm sorry. Representative of PP-Ciudados. Yes, the word is yours, Mrs Garrido.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u8	Okay. Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chiefs of departments, Mr. Erkorek, Mrs Artola generous, members of the legislature. We've voted the opposite vote for the general proposed correction. We believe that at the present moment a law of this kind is necessary, especially from the effects of the pandemia. This bill contains some privations. And that's why the Popular Party and the Ciudadans have introduced so many corrections. We're gonna... Well, we have, in fact, opposed the amendment to the whole proposed by the EH Bildu group to the Youth Bill, and more in the current context. We understand that this bill, a law on youth, a future law on youth is necessary, and more so in the current context, in which the pandemic or the consequences, rather, of the pandemic have particularly affected youth, and Basque youth, with a high unemployment rate, with problems of access to housing and with difficulties in emancipation. Without a doubt, the situation of young Basques is extremely delicate. I was talking about youth unemployment rates. And it should be remembered that, if we are a few tenths below the average in Spain – in the first quarter, according to EPA data, 39.53 %; here, 39.01 % – we are far behind or behind other autonomous communities, such as the Autonomous Community of Madrid, where this figure stands at 31.75 %, as I say, in the first quarter. We also want to put on the table the lack of opportunities for many of our young people, who have to go elsewhere, and then many of them also decide not to come after completing their training periods. Our support for this law or, rather, our vote against the amendment in its entirety does not mean that we agree with the proposed text. We consider it to be an overly declaratory text. Principles and objectives are announced that must be achieved, but no specific content is regulated, which is undoubtedly left for a later time. In this regard, there are numerous regulatory referrals. For a later time, regulation is left by decree on many issues that should appear in the legal text. At the same time, it is a question of setting up a Basque youth system similar to the Basque system of social services, in which subjective rights are recognized, when in the youth system and in this law no subjective rights are recognized at all exercisable and enforceable in the public administration. We therefore understand that we cannot talk about a Basque youth system similar to the Basque social service system established by the Social Services Act. On the other hand, the distribution and competition between the different Basque public administrations involved in youth matters is not, in our view, sufficiently clarified, and there is even some interference in some areas of competition in this field which outside parliaments are developing. We certainly believe that one of the issues that must also be emphasized is to eradicate the traces of hatred in some young people who still, unfortunately, persist: not respecting other young people for ideological reasons, sexual status, racism..., as we have seen recently. Of course, we condemn all of them and regret that some groups represented in this House today do not do the same. Therefore, by considering this legal text to be clearly better, we have put forward a package of proposals, amendments, in order to remedy many of the aspects that we consider to be deficient in shaping real, real and effective policies aimed at our young people. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u9	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Podemos-IU. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u10	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Together we abstained from the whole correction of Podemos Wealerda Unida. It is true that this bill of laws is worth while, but in order to do it, it must be modified with the rights. So at least that's what we're going to insist on for the next few months. Many of the individuals and groups who have gone through the apparitions have repeated over and over that there is a need for a youth law in Euskadi, but a law with guarantees, a law with content and a law with rights for the youth, public policies and budget, and with real youth participation. This project published by the government has been late, very late. It's trivial, and it's not enough. Since it has been established as a community, it has its jurisdictions in the field of youth, and has hitherto proved no law, and has not yet developed any laws. Y es una de las pocas comunidas autónomas del Estado que no la tiene. It is not enough for this law, which is subject to subjects, and to a general manner. It is but little ambition, for it is not a new right to the youth of euphora, and still less to the bond of society and democratic pursuit. The context has been explained: it is of vital precariousness, job precariousness, inability to access decent housing and truncated expectations of the future; emancipation as a dream or, rather, as a nightmare. And this state is of structure, so that it requires spontaneous answers. The crisis of the Covida has increased in the last few months the fear and uncertainty of youth, as some reports have been stated. We have given a lot of figures in recent weeks, but there is a recent report that says that 50% of young people in Euskadi think that their employment situation in five years will be even worse than the current one, and that is an absolute drama, and I do not see alarms on the government about this issue. Youth unemployment in the State, but also here in Euskadi, is a structural problem; this must be acknowledged, be aware of the size of that problem and measure up to the circumstances. And so Elkarrekin Podemos-IU, where he is, as in the Ministry of Labour, with ambition is addressing them, such as, for example, with the new labour reform or with the new youth employment plan. But for that to happen, we must give ambition to a problem that is structural and that affects the vast majority of young people in Euskadi. This is why we believe that the eyes of the young must be included in the law. But rights must also be secured. With our corrections, we give a profound amount of modification to the bill of law, in the path of an integral law, and make it a law which recognizes the rights of the young. We have introduced a new chapter on rights for young people: the right to guarantee income, allowing the development of a dignified life; the right to participate but, above all, to influence youth policies; and the right, of course, to youth emancipation, an emancipation that, as has already been said here, is very late – over 30 years. Baina eskubideak inolako bermerik gabe ezartzeak ez of the ezertarako balio. Horrexegatik, recognition, security, mechanisms and tools to make them possible. And some of those measures, mandates and obligations that we have introduced in our amendments are the reduction of access to GIR at the age of 18 and the easing of access; guarantees against fraud and job insecurity; comprehensive attention to sexuality, feminist policies and a gender perspective and recognition of diversity; the guarantee of non-discrimination and equal opportunities; and recognizing that Basque youth are not a homogeneous collective, but rather a diverse collective and that we must make policies that address that diversity, with particular attention to the vulnerable population. And, of course, what we think is the great challenge, which is the great challenge of emancipation: the creation of the Basque network for youth emancipation, which is not a headline, which is not a new name to call it the Basque youth system, but has and is inserted mechanisms to promote youth emancipation. But the whole preceding thing is impossible if we don't have a stable budget, and if we don't have professionals capable of it, and that's why we've even made our contribution. "Maybe someday they'll let young people invent their own youth," Mafalda said. The deepening of participation is fundamental to the amendments that we have tabled by our parliamentary group, Mrs Artolazabal. That the EGK can participate and that it can't even vote, and that the EGK is just an entity, that's not youth participation. Where are the youth movements of all kinds, some that have been cited today? Today we have given abstration in this full correction or reversal, but we do not at all protect this project of the laws of the young. If deep changes are not accepted, we will not be able to protect this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u11	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u12	Madame President, Mr. President, mistress of the department, members of the legislature, all good days. I'd like to start with a little reflex. After all, in politics, the easiest thing is to make a diagnosis, and the hardest part is to put politics in motion and make laws out of this diagnosis. This is why some parties have a violation of government, and others always feel comfortable in opposition. Guk's Guk's Gauza Batzuekin beat Egyptian Dugula. We agree on one thing that says the amendment to the whole that has brought us here today EH Bildu, and that is that this law is very necessary, but that is that we do not say it now; the Basque socialists have been saying that a youth law was very necessary for a long time. And look: three legislatures ago, with a government led by the socialists, a text was brought to your debate in this House, which was rejected by most groups. Everyone will know where he was at that time. But that is not the case: it has also been committed by the socialists who, within the agreement of the coalition government of the Basque Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, both parties agreed to incorporate the momentum into a youth bill within our government agreement. And that is the real commitment and commitment that we show both parties, which we support this Government, to Basque youth. The amendment to the Youth Act in its entirety pointed to the need to respond to the challenges we face, and especially to the challenges facing today's youth. And I am very clear that the answer to these challenges of the future is not an amendment to the whole of a law which, precisely, seeks to collaborate, to help and to meet those challenges of the future that Basque youth have in order to have a project of the future that guarantees it, a law that seeks, precisely, to consolidate the rights of Basque youth. The answer is not to give up the submission of partial amendments that could improve that law. The answer is not to give up that dialogue, which can undoubtedly lead to an improvement in the text presented. The answer to the challenges of the future faced by Basque youth is precisely the law itself, which can certainly be improved, something which EH Bildu has renounced from the outset, because they have preferred to criticize the Government rather than make improvements to it. You have given up dialogue, because in that you feel much more comfortable; you feel more comfortable in confrontation than in collaboration. They prefer the confrontation to the proposal, to the contrast of ideas in order to try to improve a text that, as I said, is essential for Basque youth to be able to meet with guarantees the challenges they face in the future. Because that's the answer. The answer is the law, it's the consolidation of rights for young people in Euskadi. The answers are the policies that drive this government and, look!, the policies that can also be proposed through the political impulse initiatives that the opposition can bring to this House. It is the consolidation of rights, as I said, through this law. And you have somehow given up that dialogue, and good evidence of that is this amendment as a whole. The truth is that you have had two legislatures to bring to this House something that you see as essential, but that, for the time being, we only have one amendment to the whole as a recipe to solve problems that are already between us. And, in some way, in the future, when you come out and criticize us for having adopted this text, you will be giving us the opportunity to tell you that you have given up improving it. In legislative action, in political action, it is as important to oppose as to have a proposed attitude, and, of course, in you, and in this particular matter, we have not found it since the first minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u13	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, ladies and gentlemen, members of the legislature, good days to all. Well, I'll try not to protect this whole correction, if I may, because here it seems as if we should ask permission to talk about the young people, and it's not so. As it is said of Erdar, "stamos ante la crionica de una muerte anunciada." It was clear from the beginning that EH Collect did not like this project of the young men, because they did not believe that they did not solve the daily problems of the young men, and that they did not, in some measure, conform to their present context. In our group, we have since maintained that this young man's bill of law from the government must be an umbrella to every part that affects young men. Only with a young man's law, of course all our problems will not be solved. But with the law that is to be introduced, we turn the mechanism of working in transversal in elements affecting young men. When we have had occasion to speak of it in the occurrences and assemblies, as we have always said, all these trifling questions or states may be of several respects, we cannot imagine that in a single law all ought to be regulated or regulated accurately. We are face to face with a law that must be long-term. We believe that a law can only reflect on the actual reality of the moment when the party who has applied the full correction of the whole is in its explanation. We are now living in a state which is quite extraordinary, but which cannot blind us, and we cannot paint the law-work we have in our hands with the brush or brush of COVID-19; as I have said, because this law, and we believe, must enable all laws to live for a long period of time, will give us that sense of perfection towards that law, as we believe. It's true that I think we may all agree in this, young people, some more than others, living a particularly vulnerable situation. We can talk about a work interpreter and trouble getting into the housing as you discussed it. You know that even at the time of this legal project, and when we begin to begin, there is a constant communication and conjunction between all the departments of the Youngery and the M.M., and that it must be so; as I have said at first, this law must be an umbrella of all this, as it is a law between the divisions and the institutions. Therefore, in our opinion, it is not proper to affirm that the giving of young men is not, for instance, incomprehensible. As we have always maintained, this is a subject to be made in the proper collection, and, as we all know, there are contrivances for it. As the chief physician has remarked, it is the first of the three ends of the law to give. We have also heard that the public policy, which is to give way to mutual solidarity, ought to be given to the construction of rules which have the ability to establish powerful commitments and political alliances. I don't know if it's the best way for strong political alliances to run a full correction. But, well, I may be mistaken, for with this whole correction there are also partial corrections. After today's speech, I don't know if you're going to think of partial corrections that make the world difficult. But I must also say that we can often agree about these corrections. and though I have endeavoured not to think amiss, yet it is hard for me to see those strong alliances, which I have already mentioned, in the EHGRAIND. That's why we didn't protect this full-check correction. Finally, and wishing to find a positive side for this discussion, I must say that we all see everywhere, and that even those who have spoken before me have mentioned the necessity of a law of youth. Another thing is, what are the means of every man's own interest, or action. What, klaro, how did he explain to the neighbor that we are showing up in a picture with us? What a problem! On the other side, at least, we felt the desire to build an interesting law of youth. And that's what I'm going to do. By the way, I want to thank the chief physician of the field of Artolarians, and I insist upon his words. And I'd like to take advantage of the rest of the teams too, although there are many respects where there are differences in the process of making them, we'll soon begin the argument by their attitude towards this project. I think that among all of us, or at least, we who at this moment are still standing, have a pretty chance before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. Second point on the subject list: "The Moment, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Maddalen Irina EH Collector, in response to our strange challenges as a people, in order to activate the national science, and to exercise a collective exercise. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Okiñena, your word is in order to present and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u16	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. It's because of experience that we learn people through experience that we learn nothing. Bernard Shaw's famous phrase of cynicism. And the motive which we bring to this parliament today seeks to escape from cynicism, the tacticism, to put aside the moves of a short term, to reject parties, and to place focus in the future of this people. The sanitary problem, the economic, the social, the political, which the Coronabirus has caused us, and which, in our opinion, we had already had an argument to answer terrible challenges. This serious crisis puts our people in front of the mirror. The current deficiency and the impossibility have been exposed to him, and he has also the means of resisting the impossibility. And this also may be remarked. I recognize that the management of this crisis is being especially difficult, that day by day is capable of burying even the best intentions. But if we simply go over the page and not find out why it fell into a broken bag, for example, the WHO warning of 23 January 2020 to all the governments of the world to prepare for it; or what failed in the repeated recommendation to test, isolate and help all those affected; or why it did not count on the opinion and collaboration of the social fabric in our country, starting, in this case, by the scientific community, but also following with the unions, entrepreneurs, with the social protection network; why it did not even count on this Parliament... Well, if we're not able to do a critical exercise, not to blame anyone or throw our shit at us, but to repair and learn from what we didn't do so well, if we're not able to do that, then we won't be able to miss out on citizen disaffection or that populist, trumpist or directly fascist political theses. For a moment, we ought to reflect on what has been done and what has not been done, for to face the future in a strong manner, we must find a new road, as wide as possible, as possible, but as comfortable as possible, but new. We have to get to a new diary. And this necessarily demands that the collective care of this people should be placed in the centre, as we believe, if we do not take a collective responsibility for ourselves, we shall not be a people. It's not a day's discussion. And today would only be a starting-point. This is not about passing the page of a book and continuing with the next one. But if you continue to do the same, the results will be eternal. And now, although we are currently happy news, the situation has not been exceeded. And our responsibility is, as a people, the responsibility of politics, that we should be prepared as a people from public services and legal marks as far as possible as the people. It is therefore to proclaim the value of politics. That seems necessary to me. And, on the basis of a serious political system of form, our responsibility is also to give the rank corresponding to the political debate. The citizens have gone far from politics, where public structures often have been reduced to mere management. And as the citizens are necessarily part of the political community, they must be drawn to politics. And they have gone far from politics, as I believe, because they find nothing under the influence of the reality, the disorder of the data, the policy of the gills; because it is not the way the Basque People are concerned with the deep discussions and tools which the people require to face the future: modern tools, agreed, efficient tools; creating new ways to do, creating whole communities, whole communities, forming agreements made by all the citizens by taking the word and agreement, not all set down, not just simple calculatives conditioned. I have been repeating this since the beginning of the current crisis. Our country must rise to the great challenge ahead, and the moment I believe is now. I was listening last Tuesday to Mr Azpiazu, the Economic and Finance Adviser, that the budgets of 2022 will face the crisis situation arising from COVID-19 and its economic and social consequences, in addition to meeting the main objectives of government action. That's what we're planning, but together in a wide neighbourhood. For the challenges in the years to come are the challenges of which we speak, and are so great and so many challenges to ourselves, that we think we ought to do so. These challenges exceed this law, and, to answer these great transitions which cannot wait for, with efficacy and assurance, we believe that the collective intelligence of this people, the collective capacity, and the participation of all, are necessary, for these challenges will be an extraordinary influence upon the succeeding generations, and we must take care of all this also. We believe that it is necessary to make steps in social rights: To approach the security model, education, and the average investment made in Europe... It is essential to accelerate a ecological transition, by examining and pushing the transformation of our productive system, so that it may be compatible with this transition. On this subject, for instance, we can't stop arguing as a country, how we are going to make the planning of the Myrgetic transition; and if we have to make any discussion, I don't care if we have to discuss the hydrogeum, for example, the interests of this people, in order that the intervention of the public sector should be in the economy, so that the intervention of the multinations which have gained a great profit throughout the pandemae. Build a circular economy development strategy, a rectangular view of the country... We've got a lot of challenges and a lot of size as a town. And I think it would be a mistake to simply recover the previous economic growth model, an intensive, globalised economic growth that incorporates many components that explain the origins of this pandemic and others that can haunt us in the future; a model in which we have seen how young people should work with salaries that do not reach 1,000 euros and pay rents of 800, precarious, with pensioners living in distress, with an industry that deteriorates while still not investing enough in research. At the moment, it's a nice thing to bring people, health, care, conditions that will lead to development, marriage with the permanentness of nature, to our production, consumption, and life in the middle of a strategy. But with this alone it is not enough, and we must make many decisions; we must lay down the debt; we must encourage the cultivation of the particular savings; we must influence the capacity for the investment of corporations, that the public sector is the head, and confirming the social return. And we'll have to talk about a new prosecution. This is a necessary discussion, which we must begin with need, for it will be necessary to give an answer to the historical context with the other measures I have mentioned. What I think is that this discussion is inevitable, and now we must do it. And if we wish to make an alternative to the future as strong and as possible, these discussions cannot be left for tomorrow, but, on the other hand, it seems to me that we must bring the principal actors I have just mentioned into the midst of this discussion. And I believe that the participation of the principal actors and of the people will be indispensable if we act upon the regeneration. When I define the principal actors, I mentioned several of them in the full-control of 15 days, with all the risks of listings, but I shall repeat some of the important ones which I think are, and which bring necessary variables into the discussion. And I mentioned the scientific community, the science academy of this country, the corporations and corporations of this country, the autonomous workers, the social economy institutions, health, education, care systems, representatives of the first sector, the financial sector, the feminist movement, the media... I spoke of them all, and I repeat, with all the dangers that are to be enumerated. The ways of understanding leadership and leadership must be able to create confidence, to place the communal force of this people in value, to resist the future, to share responsibility. You can share the responsibility so the responsibilities are shared. And this ought to lead us to a legislative government, by surmounting the difficulties of changing the modes which tend to our democratic function; which, in our opinion, is not sufficient. He read a few days ago a reflection of the international consultant for local economic development and associate researcher of the Basque Institute of Competitiveness Orkestra, Francisco Alburquerque: that simply to inform is not to participate. To inform the actors of this country, to inform the citizenry is not enough when talking about participation. It is about creating spaces of trust to generate collective effort and illusion, and without that participation it is not possible to advance in an action plan of the economic, social, environmental, health and institutional reconstruction agenda that this country needs. I speak of thinking, drawing, and sharing the future of this part of this people; of spreading debates, of doing this work with the object of disturbing the consent; of the modification of this people, from this very moment, xxi. about replying to the status of the century. In short, what I propose to you is a profound change; a new way of thinking and doing things so that the results are also different; a way of doing and thinking based on cooperation and not on imposition, in accepting that we have our reasons but that others also have theirs. And I think we can do it. And, learning the lesson, we can face the future with better prospects, do it as a nation that believes in its own capabilities and in its future. We can do this or we can continue with the old model that has brought us here, with a youth that has already been explained previously in what unemployment rates and in what rates of non-emancipation you find, with generations of people who fear for their pensions. We can change models and try. And, in any case, of course, it's in our hands. Eta, horrekin will beat, hausnartu beharko dugu gure gaitasunez, gure errinez, erabakigarria izango baga etorkizuna marrazteko. We have seen throughout the pandemic that we cannot develop the capabilities that we do have, that we do have this country, that we do have this part of the country. We have heard terms such as "single command", "delegated command", "state of alarm", "co-governance", which they have done is to make clear not only certain competitive chaos, which is obvious, but that the political and legal model by which we are governed is not the one we need, nor by far. Because the State to which we still belong acts as a brake, and we will have to reflect deeply on it, beyond preparing some laws quickly to get out of the way. The Basque Country has a competence in this part of the Basque Country, and above all it has a right to develop its faculties, to decide its future for whatever purpose it may be; And, in spite of the obstacle, the necessity of running along with the current solutions, also eats a great deal of energy in order to repair the affairs which the citizens require, and knowing that these solutions also must be permitted once more. If we have the ability to make our decisions, without application, we need the right to take those decisions, and the guarantee of the execution of the decisions made. We cannot depend on the will of one or the other of a government, as it may happen, that in Spain there is a government which has no will. And we'll have to be ready for that, too. Our proclamation, of the United States of Basques, has always been stated: ours being an independent state of euscal, what we proposed in this way was that we needed a mutual relation to the same, which is the end of providing the citizens, and improving the lives of the people, without leaving any one behind us. And it has come to us, in order to determine for once for all who we want to be, what we want to be, how we want to be, and how we want to break that road. With all that I have said, I think we all have much to gain, that we have a country to win, and that the citizens have many to win. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together Podemos-IU. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u18	Good morning, everyone. Mrs. Iriarte tells us: "Learn from the pandemic to build the future". We do agree on that, although it seemed to me that, at the end of her speech, and unlike what I find in the text – in the operative part, of course – of the initiative presented to us, because somehow it seems to us that this learning of the pandemic to build the future can only be carried out with the project of independence, which, in this case, we do not share, although we do share much of what Mrs Iriarte has said before reaching that point. We understand – and we understand this when we saw the initiative – that we are facing a debate that goes beyond concrete measures to respond to the pandemic, both in the health and socio-economic fields; a debate that goes beyond the questionable management of the pandemic by the Government. We, in this sense, do not want to settle for saying, as we sometimes hear some voices, that the pandemic has been a terrible thing and that its impact on people's living conditions was inevitable. Of course, it's happened. And, of course, we weren't prepared and prepared for her, but that has to do with the model we had. And, of course, we do not agree with the amendment tabled by the groups supporting the Government, where, basically, they come to say that the system's response has been wonderful. The response of governments during the pandemic is one thing. Of course, we are satisfied with the response of the Government of the State to which we are a party, because we believe that it has gone in the right direction. But the response of governments during the pandemic is one thing, and the model we have and how that model has responded to the pandemic, both here and in the State as a whole, is something else. We therefore understand that we are in the midst of a substantive debate. And we do pick up the glove, because we do think it is necessary to have that debate. And we say, let's put it – we do it in our amendment as a whole, and I do it now with our intervention – we put our view on that substantive debate, on that debate around the phrase "the country challenges" so used. And that debate, of course, cannot be valued at this time without observing what the pandemic has meant, without assessing how and why it has impacted how it has impacted people's living conditions. In our view, the system had already shown its inability to guarantee a life worthy of social majority and had shown its enormous fragility prior to the pandemic. For Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, it has not been strictly the covid that has caused many of the harmful consequences in the form of a certain economic and social crisis resulting from the health emergency. The capitalist system in which we live, in its current phase of deregulation and reduction of the state, in implementation of neoliberal policies, which have also characterized the policies of Euskadi in recent decades, is what has caused us a serious problem of security and an insufficient capacity of response to guarantee the vital and material security of all people. The current pandemic crisis has put our country, Euskadi, and above all its economic and productive model and its public services in front of a mirror. Decades of a model of outsourcing, privatization, a certain dismantling of public services, a transfer of public capital to the private sector, a lack of public leadership in the country's industrial and economic policy, and years of fiscal policies at the service of those who most have had and are having significant consequences for a large part of the Basque population. Avoiding the repetition of global pandemics is something that can only be achieved with determined international cooperation, with a stake in research, for firm development and innovation but driven by public health interests and not by business and business interests. It is another of the great things we think is teaching us this crisis or this pandemic. But preparing our country, its institutions and its economy not to repeat crises like the one we are experiencing as a result of this pandemic is our responsibility and it is the responsibility of the Basque administrations, and it requires the same leadership and leadership of the common, that is, of the public. Because our model, so far, was that – we have said it many times before, during and after the pandemic –: thinning of the public, economy and production in the hands of markets exclusively, unfair taxation... The model has proved, in our opinion, to have mud feet and not be able to withstand a serious and unforeseen crisis, not be able to solve the real material problems of people's living conditions. That is why we believe that this picture now makes it more essential to address that debate on the model that we have, to address it now; a debate that should be articulated on strengthening the public, generalizing social rights and their mandatory guarantee of compliance and respect by public administrations, the recovery of the leadership capacity of the economy and the strengthening of the preferably public industrial sector that guarantees the economic sovereignty of the country. The conclusion reached by our group is clear: a change of model is needed. With the arrival of the covid, the model has suffered a severe blow and places us at a crossroads in which, for the first time – and this is good – for the first time in a long time, the majority idea in society is a determined will to bet on the commons in the face of the individual. Because it has been demonstrated in this pandemic that it is the common – and therefore the public – which undoubtedly gives guarantees and confidence to most people in the face of the individual, which, on the contrary, has manifested itself insufficient and insecure to guarantee decent life to people. In this regard, we believe that today it is more possible than ever to eliminate neoliberal policies, to increase public intervention in the planning and direction of the economy, to strengthen the primary sector, to implement a powerful public industrial and financial sector and to implement an expansive fiscal policy and a progressive fiscal policy that effectively graves capital incomes, and not to give them public money. But it is true that these substantive debates cannot be left exclusively at the institutional level and at the dawn of governments. That is why we, in our amendment, urge the Government, in this case, to promote a collective debate among the main political, social, trade union and economic actors in the country, but not for an abstract debate, but for a debate on the necessary change of model, a debate for the strengthening of public services, for the guarantee and extension of social and labour rights, for the transformation of the socio-economic and productive model and for the implementation of a progressive taxation that is comparable to the European context, in order to turn, then, this unprecedented crisis into an opportunity for the transformation of the country from public leadership. We have publicly argued – and will continue to do so – that bold industrial, economic and fiscal measures are needed to ensure wealth creation and fair redistribution, so that we move forward in changing the foundations of our economic model. Broad public investment is essential today, and in order to achieve it, we need structural fiscal measures; we cannot be content with waiting for European funds to arrive. A tax reform that recovers the progressive nature of taxes, especially from taxes on capital, taking advantage of the serious questioning that currently exists throughout the country among people about the policies of cuts and privatizations that took place in the past. Therefore, we also propose in our amendment to urge the Basque Government to work in favour of the general and collective interest, putting the public before the particular interest on specific principles, five principles that we have listed in our amendment: strengthening the public sector so that no one will be left behind, using mechanisms for reversion to the public of privatized and outsourced elements; a powerful public sector for powerful public services; subordination of all wealth to the general interest, something that exists in our legal system but which we all know is not real because it needs determined policies to make it happen, one of them, fundamental, fiscal policy; public initiative in economic activity, guaranteeing all civil, political and also economic rights for all people, which we know is not being fulfilled; and, finally, transformation and new social organization of the care system, their recognition as law, their professionalization and with the horizon of a public caresystem , because another of the great things that the pandemic has taught us is that without care there is noeconomy , there is no sustainability oflife , and these continue to fall into thewomen , they continue to fall into the private sphere of themodel , and that Eudiska has absolutely publicservices. All these questions, all these questions...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u19	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u20	I'm done, Madam President. In all these matters, the Basque institutions have full competence, and we can therefore address this model change, and that is what we propose in the light of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u21	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u22	Thank you, ma'am. Mme. Irriart, you have mentioned the necessity of a profound reflection, of drawing a strategy as a people, of agreeing to the end of the short term or future. And all this is very well, we see it very well, and besides, we socialists agree. It's the same exercise we took on elections in 2020. Our program wasn't a contest of ideas, but we took the goal the United Nations had established for 2030 and made an honest effort to bring it to the Basques. We fixed a long-term goal, and defined the path to it. But then, alas, the virus came, and we said: "Listen, this reflection is still valid, but we are faced with a pandemy, and now we must respond to the wants of society at 2020." And for this purpose we made a plan of collision, with three principal aims: to secure the health of the people, to restore economy and employment, and to leave no one behind them. Well, that's all that plan. This long, moody gaze moves the government today. Watch pattern, industry, new employment policies, country planning, fighting climate change, all this is in the commitment and daily action of this government, and that collective exercise you require with the intervention of experts. It's already written in the government program. I've spoken to him in a few words: "In the process of re-making measures, it must be a share of social organisation, union, corporation organisation, and all political parties." That is why when you talk about a clear road map to leave no one behind, to fight against insecurity, to defend public services, a new model of care, to combat the climate emergency, I say to you: yes, very well, it seems very good and I share it, but that is also called a government programme, it is called a legislative initiative that is debated every Thursday in this Parliament and with which you, well, do not usually be very responsible, logically, because your opposition role somehow prevents it, or your opposition strategy prevents it. There, then, there is no country strategy or there is no need for plural agreements on many of the issues that we bring or are bringing to debate in this House. Because look, you see, it seems to me very interesting about independent experts and the collective exercise to define long-term proposals. I sincerely share it, because I believe that it is a necessary contribution, which also enriches, to some extent, the work of the Government itself; and, as I said, it is something that we see very positively from the Socialist Party and that we also implement it in our day-to-day in those departments that we lead. It is, among other things, a maximum that has been used by the Socialist Party in the different governments, and it should be remembered that it is what President Pedro Sánchez has done with the national strategy Spain 2050, without much acceptance by the opposition, let alone by the way. And it is that we also did so by the Basque socialists in the previous crisis with the advisory council of the lehendakari Patxi López for socio-economic matters, from which, by the way, very valuable documents and debates came out on the demographic challenge, on the doubles and inefficiencies in the Basque institutional framework, on the strategic sectors for the Basque economy, on the tax reform... Reflections that, by the way, were also disregarded at the time and that each passing year are more relevant and refined; seeing them from the perspective of time, those reflections were undoubtedly very accurate. So when you talk about raising the political debate, looking beyond it, having experts to define a country strategy, then I say welcome, because that is what we have been doing, and I think it is very good that you also join that vision, that reflection; a practice which, on the other hand, as I said, has been carried out by the Socialists. The problem with his initiative is that all those good intentions, when they develop them on paper, end with the usual epilogue, which is the new status, which appears reflected in the fourth point of his motion. And I understand that it is your recipe for any problem: that there is an economic problem, more sovereignty; how we defend labour rights, more sovereignty; how we strengthen public services, more sovereignty; and, of course, we understand that with such a tight framework it is difficult for the rest or that at least some parties find meeting points. The other day he quoted in the plenary session the initiative that gave rise, precisely, to this motion: the white paper against the covid, the document promoted by a number of experts from different branches to analyse the policies carried out in the face of the pandemic, and made a number of recommendations. I, in particular, know the work and recognize that it has very interesting and very valid things. But it is true that no mention is made in that document at any time of the new status, none. On the contrary, all proposals relating to the regulatory framework are based on the recognition of existing legality and are limited to recommending possible reforms. He even makes an emergency assessment, because he caught them, because he caught them by closing the document of the pandemic management bill that is currently under discussion. But, of course, that part probably does not interest you so much, because you may want to be discussing other things too, which comes at the fourth point of your proposal, precisely. And there, as you know, they're not going to meet us. And there they won't find us because he's not our model and because they know we have deep differences about it. But they will not find us, moreover, because it has nothing to do with the problems that you yourself have raised here today. And, look, since you pulled it out in full control, I am going to go back to that white paper and its first footnote, the first, when you explain that for some articles you have used the Basque Autonomous Community and for others the Navarra Foral Community as reference, and you point out that most of the detailed sectoral analyses, conclusions and proposals are of similar applicability to any part of the territory. In short, this is no less or more sovereignism; we are facing a global problem, and instead of taking advantage of the journey to question the current framework, what we have to do is to express as much as possible its potential, to seek collaboration with other autonomous communities, with Spain, with Europe, in order to try to be more effective in our responses. The principal teaching of this Pandemia is what we have so often said: that virus knows no limits, and that we have to work together to make them stronger. And that is, by the way, what thy motion saith at the third point, word: To improve the character of a multi-commodian government, by dividing the habits of power, and by encouraging the governors and decisions. This is the direction we have been leading for many years. This is what we have been practicing all these months through the sectoral conferences, the Interterritorial Health Council, the conferences of presidents... I dare say that a similar co-responsibility exercise had never been put into practice before, to share experiences and to discuss together among all the institutions; logically, with their conflicts, with their corrections, of course, but I believe that with a demonstration of federal vocation that also responds to the plurality of this country and that closely resembles the model that we particularly want for this country. And European co-governance too, which is allowing us to make strides in the vaccination strategy towards the desired goal: 70% in the summer, and the launching of unprecedented funds that will mark the path of European recovery. And from there, yes, of course, deep debates, forward-looking work, expert advice, coordinated government action with other institutions and agreed with the largest number of political, economic and social actors in this country. If a challenge has in recent years required the definition of a country strategy, it has certainly been this pandemic. But if what you're coming here is to talk again about the consultation that breaks the law, that divides us to the Basques and astounds us to the abyss through which Catalonia has already fallen, don't count on us. For the rest, here they have the extended hand of the Basque socialists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u23	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u24	In the health world, in social and economic areas, before COVID-19, this unprecedented challenge, this people, the euscal institutions, the euscal societies in general, we wish to emphasize the ability to adapt and to respond. With regard to the integrated answer and answer, we positively appreciate all this, because we are the majority of the two parties, but not the majority of this legislature, I believe that society sees in this manner the power and ability to adapt and answer what has been made and shown. That's what I meant first. And second thing, good morning to all. During these fourteen long months, the Basque institutions have been able to insert their public policies and scientific communities and the suggestions, consequences, or commands made by the international institutions. In other words, these institutions have been able to penetrate into public politics, and at the same time to co-operate with the institutions which have different jurisdictions. So I think it's worth the mention of this parliament in front of these changes-Ming, forums, scientific communities, and euskal councils. I didn't go on directly, but by televisium, and then I read it. An Interpelration, and then the motion came. The President seems not to have been satisfied; he has not or has not convinced you. However, in your first interference I have not seen any answer to what the President has said, but it is the scheme which you plan: The World Organization of Health, the independent panels of COVID-19, is considered as an excuse, and you read the entire document developed by this independent panel, and generally says that we must inquire and reflect. But without any interval of time, you enter a diagnosis, your own, in which, of course, we're leaving people behind, we're going to increase the preventives, the public services are getting weaker, the vigilance of women is increasing, our social life is increasing, the climate is increasing. Then a diagnosis into which everything is wrong. And at a time of crisis, clairvoyance, all handles are required to correct. And you're saying, "to turn the moments we've experienced into an opportunity for transformation." And where is the solution? And it is said, "Well, let us make a forum, space, grouping, where the principal agents are to be found, experts, and political groups, in order to establish new habits of government." Well, at the same time, we see that you don't like LABI, because you've submitted a correction to the transfer of the law to remove political LABI, but you're not political anymore. And now, if I am not, the rest must be abolished. That's the conclusion. Because there are organizations in the LABI, the LABI institutional, and then you have to disappear for the sake of the technical LABI. A remarkable contradiction. And the President, in his interpelation, in his attempt to answer, said, "Bo, the collective exercise is in progress, fourteen months trying to take the most effective measures." We're not perfect, but we're trying to take the most effective. He says, "The fight is not over; we are not free from another wave." There might be something else, but as you talked to the past, she says... And, well, that's where the LABI meeting makes technical, political, or advice committees. And he also tells us that on the 13th of March he had placed in our hands and in the hands of all the world a memory of the pandemary, where he is examined in all those months. The consequence is: "One must go to work in complete self-consistentness." The Medical Department mentions his behavior within that group of people (the investigations, the advice... ), and mentions the University of Esscal, and the plan now planned for six months, how many meetings have been made, and the consequences also will be seen. But the trial is in a constant process of analysis and innovation. And it's mentioned that New Year's Plan is the real route page. The New World Plan is a site where it unites or unites all the institutions. The law which gathers the measures against the Covida is in progress. We'll see what you're doing, and the law of public health will appear this year, and it will arrive before the end of the year. So we have the handles, at least to make interviews, and to make the agreements in this legislature. Well, what's the matter? Your project. Because there's always a word about "something else to be done." And these measurements of 123, the President also examined. Of these 123, 24 are directed to the health world. It doesn't arrive at 20% of all proposals and initiatives, it doesn't arrive at 20 percent. Fifteen of them are running, and there are of them that are not concerned with five other powers, and two are not seen to be right. There are no alternative projects, even if it's a 123 measure, there are no alternative projects. 123, 24; and of these some are in motion. What's going on? I think you've got a problem. And this is not mine; it is just out of the oven that your political power is found. Just out of the oven. And, klaro, the thesis here established, on the basis, is a planetary chaos, chaos, the Basque People in the midst of a whirlwind. "The failure of capitalization, and the fall of essential neoliberal dogmas, have revealed the need of a deep transformation. The opening is an opening, but more is the case with this chivalrous intersection, which raises the needs of social, economic, and political changes from the roots." That's the chance of the left. And it follows: "This is the time when he multiplys the chances of sysitical Christianity." The review to apply the systems. "Vvimos una época, la pandemia, que multimplica las posciades de la crítica sistemica." There's the key: you put a theory, you bring it here, and, like strategy, you want to apply it in forms, but you don't have an alternative. There's more to say. In your explanation, in the proposal, it is said that it is urgent to change the course, and in this the agreement must be sought. I mean, if you change course, you'll have a deal with us. But you don't believe in the system we've built for decades. That needs a change. He needs a change. Because we're not saying, "All right, we're going to make our course, we're going to get it, we're accelerated speed... "I don't know. No, no. We have to change course. And it's the thesis... The question is to be read. "Neoliberalism has created anthropology by a successful struggle for 40 years." We've created anthropology for 40 years. And you say: "Let's adjust this properly when you apply the screen," that's what you're saying. O sera, please adjust...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u25	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u26	I'm going to end with "Ajustemos." "We're not in a preinctional situation." They say it wordfully. "People have a lot to lose. Fear will lead the conduct of society." Within this strategy, the initiatives you present may be real or hypocrisy and hypocrisy, and sometimes I dare say that which covers or hides the double game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u27	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing the teams that don't run, Mistto's gone... Euscala Popularo-Ciudadnos's representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u28	Good morning, Madam President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Iriarte, it is clear that many lessons must be learned and taken advantage of: problems, dysfunctions, mistakes and what has happened. But we understand that this is not the true key to your motion. For our group, the initiative presented by Mrs Iriarte is that it continues to work in the traditional keys of nationalism, in this case. It adheres to a need for reflection or high-level political debate and collective exercise, but what it seeks is to press with the continuum keys that, so far, have not worked, have not made progress in the relationship with the structures that we already have. And that is what this initiative seeks, in some way – we understand –. I believe that the collective exercise you claim is done by society every day, each on its own site and with its responsibility. We, the People's and Citizens' Group, from our opposition role, are of course contributing to this. We understand... and I suppose you too will think that you do, just as institutions, collectives, people do... But his initiative goes a little further. Mrs Iriarte, as there has been a pandemic, as it is a disruptive moment, a new status; that is, the new status as a permanent wild. If we are at a time of development, new status; if we are at a time of crisis, new status; if we are in stability, new status; if we are in weakness, new status. That is, the nationalist solution for everything. And the key to re-dividing society and, if possible, the Government, in this case. I do not know whether to marry very well, Mrs Iriarte, to ask for a collective exercise, a creation of a forum of analysis and transformation, and, at the same time, to try to support the past experiences of seeking political division. I don't think that's a good marriage. It is not right to build a forum for strategic analysis, challenges, and, at the same time, to continue to promote political division, parliamentary division, including that of the Government itself. It is not well known what this initiative calls for as a complete objective, in relation to the challenges of the future, but it is well known that it calls for a reform of the political instrument that has brought us closer to the Basques, which is the Statute of Gernika. The most consistent of his initiative is that we must overcome it. And that is, Mrs Iriarte, generating problems, not fixing them; that is, the opposite of what you supposedly intended with the object of your initiative. Therefore, for my group, opposing this initiative leaves us quite calm; first, because we understand that there is no need for a new status that replaces the current one, and, secondly, because we also understand that there are elements of reflection, of security, of reform that are already working, in some way – they can do better – and that will have to be supported and that must be supported among all. We too have a key role to play in that regard. These are the instruments that we have to continue to rely on. There are important elements of political and democratic security. And there is the European Union, in the midst of aid to the states with its recovery and resilience plans. Those will indeed be genuine elements of reflection and analysis and projection in the future, or the process opened up with the Convention on the Future of Europe. There, in those frameworks are the keys necessary for our future. And these are elements of political and democratic security sufficient to frame the conclusions of what has happened and to proceed, of course, to improve the keys to consolidating what we have, to perfect it. Those are the fundamental elements. Here are the real strategic challenges of the future, from our point of view. That which calls for the motion as an opportunity for transformation is already part of that unprecedented effort of the European Union, and we understand that of its States, if linked to it – we understand that ours will do so – and also in other areas of intervention and decision-making. The actions of governments, parliaments, political parties, universities, scientific societies, economic and social actors, WHO, the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, with its mistakes, but here are the elements on which we have to play; no more things need to be invented. That is, some of these issues have not worked well; they will have to. But, well, there are the elements for that analysis and for addressing those challenges of the future. Throughout this framework, experts are today also – you have spoken about them – who will certainly be drawing conclusions from what has happened and the alternatives for which we must choose. So what we have to do is demand from governments responsibility, a vision of the future, that is, a high level of focus on these issues, where there are already a lot of people working without having to be part of a supposed forum or core of work, based on an initiative like yours. You, with this initiative, are proposing to us the creation of a kind of new body, of council, of senate ad hoc, but we have, Mrs Iriarte, already what is necessary to work and to do it strategically, that we must do well, moreover, with what we have, but we have it. You have set some examples in relation to policies that need to be improved, that need to be assumed, in which those strategic projects need to be put forward. It must be done, yes, urgently, yes, but also with the normality of the work that the institutions and areas of decision can carry out, and with the mechanisms that we also have in this Parliament. That is why we do have a vocation to continue to reflect, work and act in the control of the Government or in the impulse of its work or in the criticism or in the provision of ideas and proposals, which, of course, is our responsibility, listening also to society, listening to experts, to scientific societies, to those keys that we also have to bring here as a voice to this Parliament. His initiative has four points: the first points to the disruptive moment that we have lived and lived, and that is true; and we understand, therefore, that there are already elements and tools to plan or look away and do so strategically, facing the challenges. We understand that it can be done and that it must be done; another thing is that it is failed, but it must be done, and there are elements and instruments to do so. The second is the establishment of the forum. And here we understand that in this institution – or in others – we work every day, in this one we are, in the Basque Parliament. We understand and continue to regard this as a central element in life around the Government, around society. And we understand that from here you can go working on the keys you think of challenges and strategic planning. Common proposals, consensus-building measures are the same as those of the institutions. That's what we have to do here, with the help of experts, of course, and agents. But, Mrs Iriarte, the mechanisms we understand that already exist and we must use them, and the administrations must use them. In the third point, you talk about identifying governance models. It is clear that governance measures, if we are to respond to what has happened in recent months, have been somewhat disconcerting many of them, questionable also in recent months. And I believe that the Administration for what it is for is to give confidence, to give security, to give certainty to the citizens, and this has sometimes failed. It's clear we've identified him. We have talked a lot about those things, and of course that must be overcome too, but we also have the mechanisms for that. Too many improvisations, misunderstandings... That has been identified in what models of governance are, but these already identified situations – I say again – must be key to agreement and political collaboration, those that overcome these problems of governance. And in that, this Government and the Government of Spain must correct many anomalies; they must do so, because that has reached society. And, at the fourth point of his motion, the new status is the key to the initiative. We all know that. It's the key to the initiative. It is point four of that initiative. I think the rest was some sort of ornament around that purpose. Look, I don't think the new status is part of overcoming our current problems. And, yes, it is a challenge; it is also a challenge, but it is for you nationalists, not for all, not for the whole. It is clear – I conclude – that what is needed today is a framework of loyal and constructive collaboration between all the agents appointed – institutional, social, economic, scientific – each in their place, in order to respond to the problems that we have in this Parliament, without creating problems for the citizens and controlling the action of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u29	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing on the answers, Madam Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u30	Thanks again. First, I'd like to thank all the speakers you've been talking to me for today, Mr. Sorrowbar, Mr. Barrio and Mr. Hernández, who are always the builders, and I'd like to thank you. As for the government teams, well, I've found some kind of ritualization that can lead us to sleep. And I don't want to get in the mud because if we get in the mud we're in danger of falling and standing. And when I set this down, it seems to me that this people ought to take steps. It's a completely self-centered rectification that you've introduced. You've done everything very well so far. And apart from this, it is the smell of this correction that is underlying the proclamation of the whole majority. And no one doubts about this whole majority. We have no doubt about this absolute majority. What I meant to say is that this people, as a people, have some challenges, some Colasal challenges, and that we must face them, and I think we ought to do other ways and other considerations. Mr. Bigez used to say to me, I don't know where... "They're written in the concommies." In writing, it is even necessary to proceed from words to actions, Mr. Amezez. I understand, therefore, that they are well-informed, and that at his time you, for instance, have been introduced into the election program, but I believe that we ought to take steps, and that you also are convinced to take these steps. If, indeed, we read this last entry of the European funds, I believe that you, too, are sufficiently enlightened in the forms of government, and that in the romances we have, we ought to take steps, and that they are not at all challenges. That's what, Mr. Egibar, the challenges that put us on a disrobic moment, if we are to face the climate crisis clearly, I have no doubt. And at other times we have agreed, Mr. Adezza; for instance, in our relationship with the work-monographic, etc., but I still feel that there are many steps to pass, at the time of this change. And I don't mean to say that, and I don't want to bring a native consent to the table. I know what we think in the morning when we get up in our house, and what our model is. But I suppose that by this means we shall find more opportunity for consent, and that, though we have no consent, we shall learn much in the way, and make it easier for them to make several decisions. I have no doubt about it. And the disfavour of the people I mentioned before seems to me to be an important object of politics at the present day, and that we must look at it also, and that we must pay attention to it also. Mr. Hernandez, I find you very interesting about your contribution. Maybe you took her to a few details. I wanted to leave the motion open, because it seemed to me as if I were showing my will in doing this way when I saw it open, and that conversation I would have liked to encourage, and that I would have liked to have it packed, but it seemed interesting to me to have your contribution. Our project is indeed independence, but I do not possess it, and I am bringing it here to be the right to decide them all. And it seems to me that there is a subject to be brought here to-day, for this people lack instruments in pandemise and without pandemia, in order to provide for the welfare of their people. And that's how it is. If you'd like to say yes, but we're having an affair with IMV, we're trying to figure out how the state of Gunika is going to heal, and a thousand other things. And when it is completed, we shall still see that it is not the state which first arose. And yes, Mr. Ariza, it's not your type. And I know you don't want to discuss this, but if we're in favor of the majority, we should consider that a minority can't veto the majority's will. I think it's important because it's going to happen in agreement and our agreements. And, Mr. Egibar, at last, I think it's important to you. The President of your party has remarked that perhaps in the fall we may reopen the discussion of the new state, and that lawyers may be allowed to discuss this subject. I think that the work is done, and, as you have said yourself, there is an arrangement about it, and that it is time for us to take steps about it. And I am also fond of spreading compacts and agreements; but, in the course of what I have just said to Mr. Alegeza, I think that extensive agreements cannot bear the obstacle of others. It seems to me that this matter is indispensable to the people in order to give them all their assurances. I don't know if it's autumn, but we have two options: Go ahead or go back...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u31	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u32	... and I do the choice to carry on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Irart. We represent the Podemos-IU team together. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u34	Yeah. Mrs Iriarte, well, I am grateful, of course, for the tone and consideration that it makes of the speeches, in our case, of the spokesman of our group. If I refer to independence, it is simply because you referred to it in your first speech. But also, as I told you before, in your specific written initiative, in what is going to be voted on, because they do not really refer to it. But, in your speech, it does turn out that, in some way, that model change – which we do share, that you yourself have said that you also share a good part of what we have shown here – that that model change, in some way, does not seem to occur without progress in that direction. That's why I meant that. Because we are convinced, beyond the fact that we have always respected the legitimate right to defend any political position on political tracks, for many years, for almost 100 years in the case of my party, we think that the model changes that we need in Euskadi – and that we think that the pandemic has put more clearly on the table that we need them – at least from the perspective of our group, can be made perfectly with the tools and skills that we have. Yes, we want more tools and some more powers, but the issues that I have mentioned and which we have included in our amendment can be perfectly done, and so I have also said: the Basque institutions are perfectly competent. The limitations we have are not so much about the level of competition between institutions in this sense, but about the very model and system in which we are immersed: the capitalist system, the system they call free market. Many of the problems of sovereignty – sovereignty is a different thing from independence or the creation or not of a state of its own – many of the problems of sovereignty have much more to do with that economic-social model of capitalism than with the state structure and competence-sharing that we have. That is why we believe that the interesting part of your initiative, which we did find interesting, is the collective discussion of the future of the country at this time that you call disruptive, and I believe that this is legitimate, and I would like to address Mr Egibar here. You have not referred to us in that sense, but it would not, of course, be my coalition, to take advantage of a crisis to defend theses that are known – in our case, we do not agree with the model – but to think about how the crisis has affected the future that we have to build, because it is clear that this crisis has had an impact on the model that we have. This is an exercise that, in some way, for example, in the Congress of Deputies has been carried out or attempted with what a year ago was called the Reconstruction Commission, which will have reached its destination, but in which there was a collective debate and a pooling of different economic, social and so on. And we do think that this is an interesting debate, and in that sense we do pick up the glove, and it would be interesting to have an exercise in that regard here in Euskadi too. Of course, then each group, logically, will defend what their positions are with a view to building that future, which are also no secret to anyone that we all defend. Ours, therefore, is very clear in that amendment; that is why we have come to that degree of concreteness to which Mrs Iriarte also referred, because, if it had been to make an agreement on a space to make that debate, because, of course, we there left out all those political positions, which we will already take them to that space, but it was obvious that there would not be, and we must put it on the table. It would be very interesting if, after a pandemic crisis like the one we have experienced, there was that collective debate exercise about the country's future, and everyone would call it whatever they want, reconstruction or whatever they want – I don't care what the term is. It does seem interesting to me, and to my group that part if it seems interesting to you. And yes, we recognize that, for us, it would be to change the model, which has deep weaknesses, and to defend also those things of the model that we do believe are good and that they have responded well, that they also exist, and there is the core of public services in the part that has responded well.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u35	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u36	Thank you, ma'am. Madame Irriere, first of all, would like to thank you for the tone; it is a pleasure to discuss such a tune in these matters, and with perfect tranquillity. He said that the amendment tabled by the two groups supporting the Government was a self-congratulation amendment. I think it is an amendment that reflects the reality of what has been experienced, and it is the reflection of governments that have collaborated, that have implemented co-governance, inter-institutional collaboration, and that, through dialogue, well, they have managed to cope with a tremendously delicate situation, and I think they have been able to adapt to a reality that, of course, we did not know. And he was talking about some of the things that we had said in our speeches, but that we had to move from words to deeds. And I believe that precisely the Socialists, if we have done anything, have been applying those principles of dialogue, collaboration, the search for agreements in all areas, and between governments in particular, at inter-territorial meetings, at conferences of presidents, collaborating between institutions to get the most out of the European funds, and also in the search for agreement with other social and political actors in this country, and also talking with experts at all times to implement the measures that at every moment we understood were the most appropriate to deal with such a complicated situation. Of course, we, in a situation like this, will not find ourselves in a debate that I believe Basque society, according to what the Basque Sociometer said yesterday, dare say that it almost refuses. He said: "The percentage of people who would disagree with independence has the highest rise since there are records; it is 41%." But it is exactly the same thing, in that question about the Basque-Spanish axis that they so much like to put on the table, with the percentage of people who define themselves as Basque as Spanish, and something will have to do with this also with the year and a half of pandemic that we carry and with the evidence that, when our health and the things that really matter to citizens, such as employment, housing, etc., etc., citizenship does not want to get involved in any other kind of adventure. After all, what that Sociometer tells us is that four out of ten Basques, almost half, at this time when they have seen more clearly the need for strong and coordinated governments to deal with the pandemic, are telling us to get out of trouble, consultations and the search for other models, which of course the only thing they are going to look for is the confrontation. And when you put on the table debates like the right to decide or the need for a new status for Euskadi, I tell you that of course the Basque Socialists will never avoid any debate. We will be in every debate, because it is our commitment to this society and to the citizenship that has placed us in this House. But, of course, if you ask me about the reform of the Statute, I will say to you: yes, of course, certainly, but based on two pillars: firstly, respect for legality, that is, the Basque Socialists will never participate in any project that violates the existing legal framework; and, secondly, respect for plurality, the diversity that coexists in Euskadi, which I believe is also a sign of our country's identity. We do not want debates that are exclusively within the framework of nationalist conception. We want debates that are also removed from that right to decide, from the exclusion of part of Basque society. We want these debates to give rise to broad, plural agreements, but above all, to be integrative, to be representative of what is Euskadi, which is a plural, diverse land, in which we live people whom we think very differently. It is a debate that will make us all achieve a framework of coexistence that is solid, and that Basque citizens do not see it as an agreement between parties, but that, beyond that, they feel it their own, they feel it is representative of what is the way of being and the way of living that the Basques have. And that debate must also, of course, serve to shield our competences, and it must, of course, serve to strengthen our public services in the face of any attempt to bring about cuts in social rights and cuts in those services. I say to you more: what has to be claimed by this new Statute must be the recognition and incorporation into that Statute of all the social rights that we have been conquering over the last few years, such as that of the RGI, such as the subjective right to housing, as so many and so many rights that have been debated in this House, which are social achievements, which are achievements that have had the approval of the vast majority of this House, and which I believe are also a very important and representative part of what we are as a society, of what we represent as a society and, above all, a framework of coexistence that must guarantee our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u37	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u38	I don't think I've mudted the debat. At least I have that impression. When I spoke to you, I'll give you only two facts, as the president used to say, a double act and a double game. You told the president that you wanted to balance last week, not to put your finger on any injuries. Just the question: Is it not to attempt to do a wound and to put your finger in it? Or is it peting? Maybe peting's for you. Number two. Even in the last week, in the distance of Mine, in that debate which he had, there is an initiative, from an independent judge-of-the-years' quarters, to arrange a special examination. I was listening, and I heard him not once, but twice, three times, instead of saying... In a way, he wanted to work out the investigating committee, but it came out of him-no, no, a committee of inquiry-a committee, not a examination committee. And I say, also, that the leading man, in his answer, said to you, I will not bring in the words of Joseba Zalain, about social services, but also mentions, "La Assición de Directoras, Gerentes de Servicios Socias, quinity DEC20, and others." And, by the way, the four South Euskata lands first, the Navarrena, the Biscay, the Gipure, and Navarre, and with the note, are almost 8. And the rest see where they are. Do you think a committee of research and this data can be merged? Do you have to make a hearing when you've got these data? Well, gorea da, aipatu bezala, emandako hitza betetzea eta hartutako actdua ere betetzea. Aurreko debate batan ere azaltzen genuine gure helburua of the pandemiari aurre Egypt, pandemiari aurre Egypt eraginkortasunez, deal with the pandemic effectively and efficiently. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Elkarlanean and they weretzukidetasunetik. From collaboration and co-responsibility. Zertarako? Personen eskubideak zaintzeko. Preserving the rights of individuals, all the rights of individuals, and, first and foremost, economic and social rights. No, no, no, no, Zerbitzu publikoak indartuz, strengthening public services. And, already, going on to what is this debate between the new status and others, it also has to do with our competition fund and also with preserving our exclusive competences. The refocusing of the state is impressive. And since we were talking about the status, the new status, I would like to remind you that, among the points approved by this Parliament's post of self-government for the new status, there is one – "Identification and delimitation of competences" – which says, in reference to this debate that we have had – the state of alarm, to what extent fundamental rights can be regulated by other bodies other than the powers of the State – it says: "The Basque citizenship will hold the fundamental rights established in the new Basque political status, the Spanish Constitution, the European Convention on Human Rights, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU, as well as those derived from the international human rights treaties that have been signed and ratified by the Spanish State. And the Basque institutions will have the normative and executive capacity to regulate, to develop the fundamental rights recognized in the aforementioned legal systems, limiting for this purpose the capacity of impact of the state organic regulations, which must be bound to legislate a content of common minimum normative agreed without preventing or conditioning more complete and guaranteed developments by the Basque institutions". This would have freed us from a thousand battles that we have had, among other things, with a new status. That we are not talking about evanescent things, but we are also talking about material order, about the politics of things. Eta azkenekoa, denbora lovedzen ari zaidanez, gonbite egin duzunez, ba, well –eskura neukan–, zuek bigarrengo kongresua egin berri duzue, bigarrengoa, hirugarrengoa, éta gonbite jaso genuen, Andoni Ortuzarrek jaso zuen gonbite bertara joateko, eta gutun batez weretzun zion. Orduan, you must have had gutun sekretua denik, age, beast, barkatuk said. Baina esaten zion Arnaldo Otegi Euskal Herria Bilduko koordinatzaile nagusiari: "Let us send you an abertzale greeting and your desire that your meeting serve to mark a political path that will contribute to the achievement of a freer, fairer and more prosperous Euskadi. We live in complex times as a country, and the responsibility we have before the Basque people demands a special effort from all of us to achieve a promising future. It's time for Christmas to build our country socially. With these words we give you the hand of EAJ-PNV to share this purpose."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u39	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Basque Popular. Mr. Barrio, from there, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u40	Yeah. Thank you very much, Madam President. Soon, from the seat. Two questions to establish the position also in relation to the two amendments that have been tabled. We'll vote against both of them. The one presented by Mr Hernández, then, well, is part of the obsession that everything that surrounds us is neoliberal and destructive of the public. Quite the reverse: every budget that passes, every legislature that passes, what we see in most institutions and governments is that the public is strengthened. And always with that trick of privatization and the private, and the mistrust towards public-private collaboration, which is very healthy and which, moreover, is enriching of society. Well, well, those areas of mistrust and obsession in which Elkarrekin moves We can in these matters, because, of course, we cannot share. And, well, what are we gonna say about the... The other day we were talking about some amendment being a cheap one; for, well, the full amendments that the Government supports in relation to what has happened remain the same. It is an amendment to the motion that is absolutely self-congratulating; the absence of criticism is permanent, not only in a compromise amendment, where it may not be so appropriate, but in any speech. That is why it is clear that there have been many failures, many mistakes, and that you cannot be so complacent and say that everything has been positive. It is clear that, Mrs Iriarte, to conclude, we agree that we have challenges in the future, that we must work hard, but new status is to create more problems for the citizens; to make it clear, to bring it here, to be again an area of confrontation, of debate, is to create more problems for the citizens. Yesterday the Basque Sociometer made it very clear about what the Basques thought about independence, and there had never been such low quotas. That is to say, in that sense, at a time when you are talking about strategic challenges, bringing the debate on the new status here would be a step backwards, it would be more trouble; and, of course, we – I am also replying to you and to Mr Egibar, who has claimed it now – will be against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u41	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. End of discussion, we'll put the original text of Mrs. Iriart Okiñena's motion to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; 75; the supporters 21; the contrary, 48; the Absences, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u42	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote together for the full correction of the Podemos-IU. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; 75; the supporters, 6; the contrary, 48; the abstainations 21; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u43	So it's not accepted. And finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the Eucalists in full-governance set up by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; 75; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 34; the abstations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u44	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "To discuss these following undertakings at once, and to take up the final resolution: The other proposition, as made by Pedemus-IU parlamentary teams together, of the Euskal Commandes of competition having observed public lititations, and of the irregularities which the Central Committee of trades and contests has violated; and the Moment, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, a member of the Eusgilio Popular, a member of the Ciudadans, was introduced by the members of the National Committee of the EMLBN trades, and of the National competition, near the newly convicted council of the Euskalides. Team proposers turn. Mr. Soto. Together, the Podemos-IU team... ... Mr. Gordillo, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u45	All right. Thank you very much, Madam President. Government members, remaining member. Ladies and gentlemen. Why are we here today? Today we are here to vote on a motion following an inquiry into a situation, a very worrying case that has affected us all of society economically in our community, in Euskadi, which is what the press has given in calling the famous "consultancy case". We are not here for a sanction from an administrative body to some companies. That is an issue that has been sanctioned, and then, eventually, you will have the judicial process that the parties consider appropriate. We are not here to clarify criminal responsibility or administrative responsibility; we are here to analyse, to discuss what role the Government has to play in dealing with such a situation. The most serious of the facts, which sows many doubts, and, above all, sows many doubts about what the public procurement system is in Euskadi, makes the credibility of the contracting system itself very compromised, very compromised. Public procurement, ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, is very important. Public procurement accounts for approximately 10% of GDP in the state and approximately 25% of public expenditure. In the case of the Basque Autonomous Community, no data has been published, but it will be slightly higher; it is almost a third of public expenditure. Public procurement is essential. Public procurement depends on public services, on services that are also provided complementaryly in health care, in education..., in everything. That is why we believe it is extremely important that this issue be dealt with in this Parliament. Because what we are coming here today is simply to ask the Government, we are here to ask the Government to exercise its institutional role, to exercise the institutional role of Government. It is not here to ask for criminal, administrative, civil, non-contractual liability from anyone; it is to ask the Government to exercise its political responsibility – which is different from the legal responsibility, from the responsibility that could be civil – and to assume, in this case, its role, which is precisely to assume that it has an ethical, political and, in this case, partly also legal obligation towards all citizens. What are we asking, in addition to the recognition of some very serious facts? But what is being asked in this motion? Look, this motion is basically asking for two things. Basically, they ask for two things. One. The Government is asked to establish a commission, an independent external commission; not a commission chaired by a counselor, with a vice-advisor, with a director, no; an independent external commission that clarifies the facts. Because I insist: it is that Euskadi's public procurement system, its credibility, its impartiality are seriously compromised by this case, by this sanction. What have been the arguments that the Government has so far given us? I imagine that we will hear them again, perhaps enlarged, in this debate today. Well, look, the government's arguments have been: First of all, "this isn't going with me." The counselor said the other day something like "you don't understand the reason for the questioning to this counselor," etc. Hey, hey, hey, hey, And then, and "in fact, the government is a victim." Let's see, in part. This "this does not go with me", man, for, of course, is that the government has the obligation. Of course. In addition, the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, according to Article 10 of the Statute, has competence in internal trade, it has developed competence for this in the field of defence of competition. Even though there was no struggle before the Constitutional Court to establish the decentralized application of the competition law of the autonomous communities! A very famous case, that of the Catalan Generalitat and the case of the Basque Government. Well, of course you have competence in this! And, in this case, it is the Department of Economics, by the way, which is responsible for internal trade and, above all, for the defence of competition. "The government is a victim." Well, here we can partially agree. More than the government, the administration as such. And that's why all of us, all of us citizens are victims. We're victims, of course. And, as a victim – and here it is part of the legal responsibility that I spoke of before – you have to take letters in the matter and demand what is yours, and demand damages, demand liability from companies. Secondly, the government's second argument: "No, look, this has not happened only in Euskadi; it has happened throughout Spain." Man, yeah, but it's the epicenter... This is an earthquake, but the epicenter has been here in Euskadi. Man, the argument this is what is it, evil of many? Well, look, no. It is that there is a very serious situation that affects our land in a very serious way, and this must be corrected. Thirdly, the Government's third argument: "Irregular contracts – those contracts you're telling me about – happen to affect... There are only 30, there are only 30 contracts, 27 contracts that affect the Autonomous Administration." Yeah. Look, but they're companies that usually hire the Administration; they're contractors, they're regular contractors with the Administration. Hence the gravity. What do we therefore ask of the Government? We ask you, in addition to establishing an investigation, to assume your institutional responsibility and to ask these companies, to ask the companies. What are the arguments put forward here by the Government and, well, high-ranking officials related in this case to the Public Administration, to this Government? First of all, he says, "No, it's that this was a usual and assumed practice." It is that this very much reminds us of that phrase of "No, it is that this has always been done this way". Well, listen, this is wrong. It is a practice prohibited by competition rules, by common sense, by ethics. And this can't be. "No, it's just that this has always been done this way." Well, it's gone bad. This must be pursued. Such conduct must be punished. It's just, if not, we're sending the message that it looks like there's a free bar here for this kind of behavior. That can't be. The Government's second argument in this regard: "No, look, you have not read the Public Contracts Act properly, the new amendment that has been made, and it turns out that these types of contracts are no longer permitted. So, since these types of contracts are no longer allowed, this is no longer going to happen." Man, companies always adapt their behavior to reality. Bid rigging cases, which is what you can technically call concerting to get a public procurement in a seemingly competitive procedure, is that there are a lot of them. I am not going to get involved with this, but, listen, I insist again: it is that they are companies that usually contract with the Administration, and continue to contract with the Administration. It's just that they're still hiring with the administration. That's the situation. And then the third argument. This seems more like the argument of an advocate for the companies themselves, but the Government says so, the Government says so. He says, "Man, no, Mr. Gordillo. It's just that this sanction you're talking about isn't firm, because now companies are going to resort and so on..." Hey, but it's a business issue! The companies will now resort! It seems that you, the Basque Government, take on the role of a defence body, a defence lawyer for companies! Hey, the facts... Companies will, in fact, have to worry about a number of things. And companies have the right to exercise, in effect, their procedural rights and to appeal. But the proven facts are the proven facts. That's not gonna change. The proven facts are there, and that's not going to change. And besides, the government can already activate the machinery. You can start suing now. You can start suing now. You can start demanding now. You can start sending burofaxes now. You can already start to prevent them from prescribing the deadlines, because then we're going... "Oh, it's just that this had to have been resorted to at the time." It is necessary to prevent them from prescribing the time limits. So let's go, what should be done is to activate the legal service, to activate the legal services of the Basque Government, and, above all, to analyse also the legal cost of doing nothing, because, perhaps, doing nothing and being cross-armed has a legal cost as well, it has a liability cost. Why do we ask the Basque Government to intervene? Why do we ask the Basque Government to intervene? Man, we ask the Basque Government to intervene – I insist – because these behaviors we understand are extremely serious, and we must send a clear message, we must send a clear message to the markets, to the economic sector and to the whole society that these behaviors are not going to be allowed here. Well, you read the e-mails, we all read the resolution of the CNMC, we read the e-mails..., and I don't know about you, ladies; sometimes I get my hair like scarves, I get my hair at the top of my head seeing – I know – the nature with which prices were made, the nature with which these contracts were made. Man, this is what's technically called a connivance. Here the Government says: "No, man, Mr. Gordillo, the CNMC has not appreciated connivance. He didn't appreciate connivance." Man, I couldn't do it because the facts were already prescribed, for starters. But if you start to read, if you start to read – time seems to be running out for me; I have seen that I have changed the time, but, well – if you start to read, I will only give you, ladies and gentlemen, three examples. Example of a public contest. The papers, the technical bases are published on 15 May. The resolution to invite companies is dated 7 June. And the email where the contract is already being distributed is May 10th, it's May 10th! Man... There are more examples. I have the examples here. I can distribute them later. Man, this is connivance. This is what's called connivance. This is what's called connivance. It is not an express covenant, but, of course, this is connivance. And this is admitted by sanctioning systems. Evidence test is perfectly assumed. This is why, from a dialectical point of view, the Government is playing a little bit with legal and political responsibility. Look, this is on its own, so... the courts will say. Yes, but here there is a political responsibility to intervene. Therefore, the victim, the victims of these behaviors are all of us; it is not a government of a political party, of a particular coalition; it is the whole of society. We therefore ask the Government not to stand idly by, to intervene; we really ask it to intervene, that this does not become a case of "School comers, Part Two". And for all this, ladies and gentlemen, today we ask this House for confidence that this motion will be approved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u46	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together, as a party proposer, Mr. Soso has the word as a representative of the Podemos-IU team, to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u47	Good morning. Today we discuss, for the first time in full ordinary, an absolutely relevant and extremely serious issue for all Basque institutions and the whole of citizenship, a topic that the Basque Executive has intended to let run, sweep under the carpet or even throw balloons out, enumerating other affected autonomous communities, as if that would make it less serious. As we were able to see on 28 May before the questions that we put to the groups that today sign this transactional, in view of this attitude, it will be, once again, the groups in this House to which they are responsible to answer some proven facts, whose administrative involvement is firm and which the National Commission on Markets and Competition has described as a very serious infringement in a sanctioning file against several companies providing consultancy services. The investigation, as you know, was based on a complaint lodged with the Basque Competition Agency for a possible distribution of consultancy services contracts tendered by the Autonomous Authority. CNMC has investigated contracts tendered and awarded by public administrations to these firms through negotiated procedures without advertising or minor contracts. National legislation seeks to ensure competition by requiring a minimum number of tenders to be submitted. The procedure used by the firms was to request the collaboration of other firms to submit spurious tenders, which ensured the concession to the firm that was to win the competition. This body believes that these cartels handled public tenders for at least 10 years. As the plot was found to extend beyond Euskadi, the investigation was raised to the CNMC. However, the volume of events affecting the Basque Country is so high that the CNMC considered it advisable to separate the plot into a national collaboration network and another North collaboration network. I'm going to repeat it so it's clear. These consultants manipulated public tenders for at least 10 years, a long decade in which the belt had to be tightened, while a group of friends with very specific political affiliations have been distributing contracts and public funds. Many emails collected by the CNMC believe that requests for "coverage" – and this is what I ate –, as euphemistically called this practice, were very common and that participants had privileged information about calls that had not yet been published. As Mr Gordillo has well explained here today, I will stop to present also a concrete case of exchange of messages, in one of the examples of special gravity, which, moreover, refers to him as the CNMC, which is the case of the Port of Bilbao. And I quote literally what the CNMC says about this case: "One of the most serious cases occurs in an exchange of mail in 2016 between the officials of the Port of Bilbao and those of Deloitte, referring to a study of the impact of the port". The responsible of purchases of the Harbour Authority asks the responsible of Deloitte, Ana Andueza, data to configure the contract of consultancy. The port manager says to Deloitte's manager: "Thank you, Anna. I'm organizing the study. I need you to send me all three companies to ask for offers." That is, a company of the companies that were going to offer the service is the one that will suggest the other two bidders in order to make an offer in worse conditions, and it is this one, Deloitte, who receives the project of impact study of the Port. A real shame. And this is where we can ask ourselves how it is possible that in all these bidding processes over a long decade there has been no appreciation by any contracting board, by any regulatory body, by any intervenor, by any public administration control mechanism; how it is possible that there has been nothing, some indication enough to allow this to go out to the conference and the administration to establish the necessary control mechanisms. And this, in the end, ends in a lack of respect and capacity on the part of the Basque Competition Authority, the Court of Auditors and also of the regulatory mechanisms that the public administration has, a contempt of citizenship regarding these public administrations. But gravity goes beyond the distortion that occurs on the market, which is what Mr Gordillo basically referred to, and the exclusion of other firms that could have participated in these tenders, probably, by the way, offering better prices or higher quality services. It is difficult, in this sense, to assess the amount of the overcost over this 10-year period investigated, but assuming that the final price for a genuinely competitive process was at least 5% higher, we would already be talking about tens of millions of euros lost in this type of procedure. It has been sold to citizens for a long time that the thinning of public administrations responds to effective management. This deeply neoliberal doctrine that dismantles the public and that states that from the private it can be better managed, in this case, in particular, of course, remains deeply questioned. A skeletal administration is forced to subcontract jobs that would rather be the responsibility of the public service, but at a much higher cost, as is the case here. That is why we believe that the Basque Parliament must unequivocally show its deep concern about the events sanctioned by the CNMC and declare its firm will to clarify the possible implication or implications. That is why we have recorded a series of initiatives in this regard in order to listen to all the voices, in addition to appearances, and to study all the relevant documentation to clarify the political responsibilities in this matter. And, as was well said, with many of these companies, today it is still being hired. We cannot fail to point out in this regard that the CNMC has proposed the prohibition of hiring with several of the sanctioned companies; among them, there are signatures with which it usually continues to be hired. It is true that today we are awaiting the pronouncement of the Advisory Board on Public Procurement, which reports to the Ministry of Finance, as to whether or not to prohibit contracting with such companies. But already today, the Basque administration, in a preventive way, could stop formalizing minor contracts with these types of companies, but it is not. Let us remember who was asked to prepare the first draft of the European funds projects last summer, which went precisely to one of the consultants, to one of the big fours that are pointed out in this plot of the consultants. We also find it reasonable, as was raised in the original proposal, that is, in the motion of the People's Party, that it be an independent body that investigates and audits what has happened in relation to this issue. And, on the other hand – and I will refer to this at the turn of the reply – there are many more contracts that would have to be investigated after the 10 years of period of which it has been found that there have been irregular bidding processes, because, if we have all the contracts that, after those 10 years, have been conceived by the public administration, it is to be imagined that we could encounter similar situations past the years corresponding to this period that has given these sanctions of itself. We therefore consider it essential that the Basque Parliament should take a decision in this regard, that it should make a statement in relation to the gravity of this matter, the need for its investigation; and, in view of the fact that the initiative is not likely to come forward, in any case, in the context of the committee's appearances, we will ask all the questions necessary to continue to gather all the information, including those responsible who have promoted this scenario, whether actively or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u48	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Passing the teams that don't run, Mistto. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, again, everyone. At this point, few doubt what has really been happening for many years in the Basque Country. Who else, who knows less about the threat behind public procurement: minor negotiated contracts, rigged contracts, influence trafficking, and, of course, privileged information handling. A reality also of the Basque Country, of the Basque administrations, as evidenced by the CNMC's resolution on the consulting cartel, the subject of this parliamentary initiative. Who else, who least knows... Let's see if now that you're pulling a little bit, besides the thread, a very interesting thread, we can identify those fraudulent practices, where they are produced and who are responsible. We, in Vox, have it at least pretty clear. In addition, (sic) we doubt that the PNV has invested much of its time and its plumbing in creating a customer network, a tupid web of spider to do with everything that moves in our region, making, in addition, an ambition and a gluttony without limits. Hence, some names intimately linked to the Basque Nationalist Party appear in the consultants' cartel that is the subject of this parliamentary initiative. The case he brings us here today is symptomatic of something that has been happening for a long time in the Basque Country, as are the explanations given in this regard by both Lehendakari Urkullu and Councillor Azpiazu: connivance of the consultants in question with the Administration; complicity between them to make with juicy public contracts, with management of privileged information that could only come out of the Basque administrations and also from the Basque Government itself; fraudulent use of public funds, of the money of all, to benefit very specific companies, to generate servitudes, all although it would entail a considerable cost for the work to be carried out; after all, it is the people who pay. The resolution of the CNMC is very forceful. And, on this point, we must also acknowledge the work done by Mr Gordillo; an advance on everything that is yet to come, because the investigation is still taking place, because what we have known can also be pulled away, and a lot, so it is possible that, sooner than later, we will have more precise data than has happened for many years, despite the brake that the main government party and the government itself are going to tread hard. It is common to hear them say: "this does not go with us"; "the bad ones are the consultants and not the Basque administrations", "we must be careful because we are still investigating, because we still have the possibility to appeal the resolution", "this government is committed to transparency and compliance with the existing law on public procurement". All this, arguments of an executive whose citizens are already looking with some unbelief, on whom the shadow of suspicion grows, not that it is played with everyone's money, that we all already know that, but that at last it has remained in evidence and can, moreover, be tested. And even if you say otherwise, this matter does go with you. And it is not a problem of the whole of Spain. The epicenter of the cartel is in Euskadi. And it is in Euskadi where more public contracts are under suspicion and investigation. In any case, Vox is going to support the one who investigates everything that has happened, and that is done until the last consequences, whoever falls. And there is a lot at stake: nothing less than the confidence of the citizenry in the administrations that manage their money, that draw our present and our future. And of course it goes with you, because everything goes with you, with the PNV, which has handled the thread for decades. They're closing the door to the truth today, but it's good news what? That nothing is going to stop them from recanting themselves as they really are. Lehendakariak : Eskerrik asko, Martínez anderea. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u50	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Gordillo, Mr Soto, in fact, you have reported some of the facts concerning the investigation that the National Commission on Markets and Competition completed in May 2021 with a sanctioning file to a number of consulting companies, namely 22 companies, for presenting fictitious offers to bid in concert. But I will try to complete this analysis and explain why the Basque Socialists do not agree with the motion put forward by your group, Mr Gordillo, or with the non-law proposal of the Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita group. Firstly, I would like to point out that, as part of its investigation, the CNMC has made multiple requests for information to the various bidding authorities, and has analysed up to 200 public contracts. And, generally speaking, the actions of the various public administrations concerned have never been called into question by the NCMC. Therefore, there is no justification or justification for the opening of an investigation into tenders already made years ago, and even less so when there is no anomaly in the CNMC file in the administrative action in the processing of such tenders. The control systems of the administrations in general, and of the Basques in particular, operate very reasonably. The pre-control bodies, the Office of Economic Control in the Government, intervenors, city secretaries and other administrations, bodies and bureaux of recruitment do their job, issue the relevant reports and therefore validate the recruitment procedures. The Basque Court of Auditors, the rest of the external control bodies of other autonomous communities, the Central Court of Auditors have issued their ex post facto reports on the accounts and contracts for those financial years, highlighting all the caveats and deficiencies detected through generally accepted audit practices. Both prior and subsequent controls therefore serve to verify that the Administration complies with the laws; in this case, in addition to those of a budgetary nature, the Contracts Act. That is to say, all control systems ensure compliance with the law from the public sphere, so implying that the administrations could be the inductors of these anti-competitive actions that harm and harm the administrations themselves implies insinuating the commission of offences and/or offences by hundreds or thousands of officials and professionals working in these control bodies, knowing as we know that by the two cartels of companies a wide variety of administrations throughout Spain have been harmed. In other words, it means concluding that all the officials and managers who have worked and validated these recruitment procedures – control office, intervenors, secretaries, recruitment boards and bodies, audit tribunals and external control bodies – have committed crimes. No one can deny the existence of specific negligence or errors, but from that to slip the idea that this plot in a multitude of disparate administrations from all points of view was led by the administrations themselves has no basis. Moreover, if the CNMC had the slightest doubt about any data or evidence with respect to any administration, it would have brought it to the notice in ordinary justice. I repeat: these oversight bodies ensure compliance with the law in the public sphere. But if this is not enough for you, I will summarise the main sections of the CNMC resolution, which I am sure you will have read. It makes it clear that the CNMC does not hold the Administration in general responsible for any connivance with the cartel against the competition of the consulting companies. On pages 134 to 181, the grounds of law and the proposal for a resolution of the investigating body and the agreements of the Chamber are set out, and I think it is important to highlight two facts: one in relation to the concealment by companies, and the other in relation to legitimate confidence. Section B defines conduct, and within this section it is important point D, existence of cartel, pages 172 and 173. The CNMC literally says: "It is a faithful reflection of this spirit of concealment vis-à-vis the Administration and the rest of the market agents that companies created anonymous email accounts to manage the coverage. Contacts between the companies concerned with the request for coverage have been made with cover vis-à-vis the administrations." And section C speaks of anti-legality and legitimate trust, claimed precisely by the companies, pages 175 to 181, stating that "the participation of the Administration would have generated them sufficient confidence to understand that their actions were violating the rules of defence of competition". Well, the CNMC concludes that the requirements of legitimate trust are not met. All this with references to Supreme and Collateral judgments, such as that on page 180, which says: "It is not possible to consider that the Administration is generating external clues that direct companies to a certain conduct. They exclude the possibility of appreciating an external sign on the part of the Administration that would encourage them to interpret the practices they were committing as lawful." Therefore, even in the most extreme cases they mention, they could be based on negligence or ignorance of the Administration, terms coined by the jurisprudence, but they could never generate legitimate confidence for companies to act by interpreting that the practices they were committing were lawful. One thing is to detect errors, and another very different is to make the Administration think that it has led this matter. For this reason, pages 174 and 175 contain the conclusion on infringements, in which the Administration is not mentioned. There is no mention of any administration, and therefore no responsibility is attributed to any of them, even for possible specific negligence, if any. As for the PNL of the group Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, very brief. The Basque Competition Authority initiates a preliminary investigation, in fact, and, when it found that the scope of action of the companies investigated exceeded the Basque Autonomous Community, in 2017 it transferred the documentation to the National Commission on Markets and Competition, which continues with that investigation. Therefore, the hypothetical enlargement would have to be done by the CNMC, the holder of the administrative file, and it is clear that it will not, because, if it had considered it that way, it would have already extended the file, which, by the way, the maximum time to resolve and notify, if I am not mistaken, has already ended, since it is 18 months. And, as for the conduct of the companies sanctioned by the CNMC, a greater or lesser degree of knowledge or tolerance may have existed on the part of the administrations concerned, this is something that has already been analysed and investigated throughout the CNMC file, concluding with a resolution contained in pages 285 to 289 detailing two serious cartel violations, details of the companies and those responsible with their sanctions, and no mention of any administration, so I insist: no responsibility is attributed to the administrations. That is why we will also vote against the compromise amendment, because, in the end, it contains the text of the original GNP in more detail or in more detail, and, in our view, it is not well raised, as I have said before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u52	Yeah. Thank you, and good noon to everyone. I shall not repeat, since those who have received the first word have, in some measure, explained the nature of the procedure, and what is here in dispute. And I'm going to use time or other items for the desktop, and I'm going to focus on what's been, what I've been doing, what I've been doing, what I've been acting and acting, about connibence, but also about control organs as regards attitude. According to the New Testament, God was working and creating the world for six days and the seventh rested. And, in the case before us, since the CNMC resolution was known, the government was missing six days, in no silence, and on the seventh day it spoke. And one might think that, in the face of a case of this magnitude and scope, the Basque Government itself was applying the precautionary principle, and would be analysing the issue. But it is that, to questions after a Governing Council, the spokesman for the Basque Government answered on that seventh day, the first time the Government spoke on this issue, is that "we do not have a direct knowledge of that opinion, and what we know is through the media." 18 May, when the resolution had been published on 12 May. And, of course, if you are, as you are presenting yourself here, a victim of fraudulent practice, if our administrations are affected, the least you can do is to get interested, to gather information from official bodies, to do an analysis, and not that leaving or that kind of interest that the Basque Government has shown to date. A resolution that, by the way, was accessible to the public since May 12 in any Internet search engine. A decision which gives a single and continuous infringement, constituting a cartel. And so clear and compelling is the resolution of the CNMC. The numbers: 200 contracts analyzed for the period 2008-2018, of which 173 were found to be irregular; 173 of 200 analyzed. It doesn't mean there's no more. Of these 101 correspond to what has been called the Northern Cartel, a Cartel made in Euskadi. And, therefore, with regard to the attitude of the Basque Government, it also draws attention to the fact that the Lehendakari Urkullu, in the last full of control, made a sort of attempt to equalize, putting at the same level of affection all the autonomous communities and their administrations, enumerating them as carts. Something Mrs Pérez has also done in her speech or let slip. But the truth is, the data are that, of that hundred fraudulent contracts of the North Network, 85 correspond to Basque administrations and institutions; above all, focusing on departments of the Basque Government, public bodies and entities, Bilbao City Council and the Port of Bilbao and Bilbao Ekintza. Contracts analysed, therefore: 200. Fraud detected: 173. Of the so-called national cartel, 72, and of the Northern cartel, 101; of which, Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, 85; Cantabria, 8; unknown, 4; Castile and León, 2; La Rioja, 1; Nafarroa, 1. Let's talk about businesses quickly. Deloitte, 97 S&F, PwC, Idom, B+I Strategy, Managing XXI Consulting... They're some of the companies in the plot. Its directors: Azua, Ardanza, Andueza, Egia, Luzarraga, Manterola. Surely, from that bench many of you know them or are in their surroundings. And with that data it seems logical, therefore, that the CNMC has differentiated the northern area from the rest of the Spanish State, or that the written opinion coincides to place the epicenter of the plot here, because it is here, and that is the data. It is therefore remarkable, that the President should endeavour to compare them with all the commonwealths and administrations, or more significant than that which belongs to a defensive attitude. Why should the administration of Esscal be a mere victim of these corporations, as has been said? Why this defensive attitude? And, in the last session of control, in addition to his attitude in another attempt to minimize the case of the impact of the Basque public administrations, of the "don't go with me", of the situation as a victim of the case, a lapsus languee played a bad pass to Councilman Azpiazu when he spoke of "coexistence" rather than "connivence". Nor does it seem crazy, in response to the growing demand and outsourcing of the Government's own functions towards these consulting companies in recent years. Therefore, it does not seem crazy to talk about coexistence, nor a dislate, seen the revolving doors towards these members' consultants and party discharges. And there's the data, and there's the names, too. Whether there is complicity in the administration, it is not properly proved in the administration of the competency, but it does not even reject it. For it is one of the most important matters to explain, which justify future political and judicial actions. And that's why we're gonna support today's transaction. And it is that Mrs Pérez has done some sort of cherry picking, and she tells us about page 174 and 175 – yes, we have analyzed it, and we have analyzed it well – but it is that there too, Mrs Pérez, she says that "it cannot be obviated by this room that there are some facts starring some agents of some administrations that might not have protection in our order". And I could go on, but you've done a cherry picking book to justify the unjustifiable. During CNMC's report there are examples that suggest that the administration agrees with the recommendations: that everything should be ready before the offer was published, that the administration should be invited to know beforehand the corporations, or, incluso, the firm of Counsellours, concludes that the case itself makes plagues, and then the public Administration has its own plus, and that the contract is carried by companies designed. So the suspects, the omens are there. And that's why it's so necessary to start an investigation about it. And who's the researcher? Well, an independent investigation, no doubt. I have already mentioned the round doors between them and PNV, and there are. And these take place in several degrees, and in several directions, in this part of our people. And everyone has PNV's seal, or most of them. Multidirectional rotating doors, multilevel, almost all with Bilbao Ibañez serial number, 16. And that is why there is a need for an external investigation or audit, because the investigative, control and control bodies that could or should do so on this issue are completely disqualified. And I am talking, in the case before us, about the Office of Economic Control, the Basque Court of Public Accounts or the Basque Competition Authority itself. They're disabled, they're disqualified, and they're completely disabled. The Basque Government's Office of Economic Control is disabled because, among other things, it has detected nothing during these years of this fraudulent and continuous practice. And all these contracts have passed through their noses, taking that into account, that more than a third of their contracts have affected the Basque Government and its entities and companies. That for a whole decade these contracts have not even smelled them, and they always went to the same companies, and the same companies were always invited, something that has been very evident in the resolution of the CNMC. And the causes can be two: one, lack of office capacity – perhaps; or two, that has to see that it is directed by Mr. Javier Losa, which we have already talked about on some occasion and which, among other things, was even Burukide of Araba Buru Batzar directly, and be the person responsible for investigating or controlling these contracts. And the Basque Court of Public Accounts is disenfranchised, and not because of the mere misconception – because it is a real misconception, that in other latitudes these questions would not be given – not because of the misconception of being presided over by Mr. José Luis Bilbao. And I'm not going to repeat myself again. It has not been able to detect the Basque Court of Public Accounts nor a glimpse of bad practice all these years. It has not been able, by checking the accounts of all the administrations, of all the 100 contracts that are installed here. And the Basque Competition Authority is disqualified, and more, because it is important to point out that it is not the current Basque Competition Authority that initiated the investigation; that, however, just three weeks later, the current president of the Basque Competition Authority, Mrs Urresola, awarded a contract to Sabin Azua, the brother of exvicelehendakari, who himself is personally sanctioned – two contracts for 30,000 euros for a 16-page document; by the way, 2,000 euros the page; it goes well. But it is even more disturbing than on 12 May, when the CNMC resolution came out, Mrs Urresola was calling on the CNMC to collect in the communication which, please, had been the result of an anonymous complaint. Why? Because this, among other things, gives the consultants the opportunity to appeal to the CNMC resolution. And, of course, it's starting to smell a little bad. But let's talk about the composition of the Basque Competition Authority. Alba Urresola, appointed by Councillor Azpiazu himself, but who comes from Guggenheim, where he was put by Mr.Asier Atutxa, his trusted person in Guggenheim himself, partner and currently responsible for PwC, who is also sanctioned. Or Mrs Venturini, who, after starting currando in Viuda de Sainz, passes through Deloitte, the consultant who has had the most sanction, and who directly and without clipboards campaigns for the Basque Nationalist Party as well. And we finished the trio of the Basque Competition Council with Mr. Rafael Iturriaga Nieva, which is the Socialist Party's toll, right, Mr. Arriola? He has been an advisor to the Socialist Party historically in many institutions, and even vice-advisor of security, if I may recall, in the socialist era. But the guinda puts it who is the research director of the CNMC, Joseba Andoni Bikandi, Anton Bikandi, a person of the highest confidence of the PNV, on whose electoral lists he has appeared on numerous occasions. These are the organs, the control, control and audit bodies! This is, this is what's in this country! More shadows, therefore, of the stroke than you look. It is completely disabled for any action that has to do with the case of the consultants of the North Cartel. And I'm going to finish it, Mrs. President. There is therefore much to be explained; there is much to be told; The paper of the Government as yet, whether it has been a connivance or not. What's the problem? If you're so clear that there hasn't been any connivities and CNMC is doing it, let's find out. And things are coming out, porque, además, en status cupion, es tan cuspable quien toma como quien, porque todo esta porde casi nunca passa.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u53	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Eubertarians. Mrs. Bergeralbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chiefs, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, everyone. "Reality or fiction." It's the title of today's movie. Because, as usual, today too has been speculated and demagogic. The tone used by you encourages you to think that there are irregularities in public tenders. In fact, this is the title of the initiative presented by Elkarrekin Podemos. Today you are sliding towards the irregularities of the Administration, and that is a fallacy. And, as political parties in this Parliament, they should not be so irresponsible by speculating with lies and making their own assumptions and assumptions, which are far from reality, because the CNMC resolves that the bids of the departments of the Basque Government have not shown any signs of connivance or offered legitimate confidence to those claimed. Mrs Pérez has already justified this with the appointments of the CNMC; therefore, I will not repeat myself in quoting them. Beraz, there has been no evidence of connivance or cohabitation; none. They intentionally blur the matter, an absolute blur. They make a spurious use of the Basque Parliament. They mix irregular hirings with anticompetitive practices. Pure contractual opportunism. All the tenders promoted by the Basque Government were at the time monitored by the intervention control bodies and by the Basque Court of Public Accounts – independent bodies, Mr Estarrona. Shameful what he said about EAJ. It seems that if you're an EAJ, or if you're an EAJ, you can't do a good job or a donation. Too bad, society thinks it's against you. I hope you pay more attention to Mrs. Irrie, because the last thing she said was we're the ones who've come to sleep. Well, I don't know who's sleeping, Mr. Estarrona. You know very well, because we are in the process of amending the Basque Court of Auditors Act, which extends its control to the Basque public sector. But the competence or responsibility to monitor the correct compliance with competition rules lies with other bodies: the Basque Competition Authority and the NCMC. You well know that if you mediate any evidence, the Basque Competition Authority will analyze it and act. It has already been done with the start of this dossier, and it will be done in the face of any sign of overcosts in the hiring, overcosts in what concerns us, that Mrs Gorrotxategi already advanced us in the press conference, and today also Mr Soto, something that could not even quantify the CNMC, but does the Elkarrekin Podemos group. One more example of unfounded alarmism. We respect the competition authorities and support them in their work, but not everyone here can say the same; EH Bildu, for example. EH Bildu does not like these organisms; moreover, he calls for their suppression. But, of course, as this resolution is useful to you for your strategy against the Government, you keep quiet and hold your sardine. Well, that said: on the one hand, the competition authorities, and, on the other hand, the Basque Court of Auditors. The work carried out by the Basque Court of Auditors is contained in the audit reports of the General Administration of the CAV, of the outlaws, municipalities and other components of the Basque public sector, and they are all referred to the Basque Parliament, on which no political group has made any comments. He has not asked for any explanation, nor even tried to modify the work plan of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. In short, the tenders promoted by the Basque Government were monitored by the intervention control bodies and by the Basque Court of Public Accounts, but the alleged illegal actions that some private sector natural or legal persons may have carried out are, in any case, outside the legal scope of the Basque Court of Auditors' activities, as they are the functions of the competition authorities. Again, they confuse the plans. And, in this way of confusion, the People-Citizens Group urges the Basque Government in its initiative to carry out an investigation into negotiated contracts, when, one, the CNMC does not judge contracts, but collusive practices to be made with the market; and two, this work and control is already done by the Basque Court of Public Accounts. So the only additional way to resolve any such conflict is through the ordinary courts. CNMC has referred its resolution to the Public Procurement Advisory Board, and the above-mentioned companies may appeal to the National High Court. Therefore, as the Lehendakari and also Councillor Azpiazu said the other day, we must maintain a cautious attitude not to point out guilty when the procedure remains open. Therefore, there is not, Mr Gordillo – or the groups that have had sex – there is not enough legal title to initiate a lawsuit. There's no basis. A basis that there could be for all today's charges to go to court, because what is being disseminated here today is a court of custody. But, to their misfortune, they are unjustified accusations, as demonstrated in the resolution of the CNMC or in the ruling of the Basque Country's TSJ today cited, that the only sentence that is not of the claimants indicates that anticompetitive proceedings were unknown to the contracting administrations. We are not going to allow them to dirtyly link the Basque Nationalist Party with these anticompetitive operations between private companies. The Basque People-Citizens Group has already done so at its press conference, and today several political groups have done so again, because this resolution does not punish either the Basque Nationalist Party or the Basque Government by far; it punishes some companies. If we applied your sentences in this case, many of you would also be stained. EH Bildu, for example, in the proven fact 34, year 2012, municipal government in the hands of the abertzale coalition; Popular Party, in the proven facts 37 in Galicia, three in Murcia, nine in Madrid, or 48 in the Diputación de Cuenca, all governed by the PP. Does that mean there was connivance? Does that mean there was connivance? Or is it a smokescreen to distract and divert attention from your open court cases? And there's a fact that I found interesting and that was put on the table a few days ago by Álava's deputy general, Ramiro González. In all the legislatures analyzed, in the Álava Foral Diputation, from 2007 to 2021, all the outside governments have contacted the consultants now investigated. But do you know which executive was the one who awarded the most contracts to these companies? Well, it was precisely a People's Party government. Have you heard us ask your party for responsibilities, Mr. Gordillo? Have you heard us talk about plots, corrupting them and other jewels? No, no, And we will not, even if you continue along this path of falsehoods and grave accusations. The Basque Nationalist Party is not going to blame anyone, when, in the mouth of the president of the Basque Competition Authority, the administrations concerned were considered victims of the illegal behaviour of companies. But you are more to blame; above all, if it is the Basque Nationalist Party. If you believe that you are going to get political results embarrassing any matter, you are very confused; yes, we are getting used to your tactics of interested use. A recent example is the pandemic; more than the past, the school dining rooms, also mentioned today by Mr Gordillo. By the way, there are a number of issues relating to school dining, Mr Gordillo. One, there was no connivance; the Basque country's TSJ condemned companies, not the Basque Government. Two, the first objective of the Basque Government with the school dining rooms was to find the best food, the best quality; hence the system is the envy of other communities. Three, the Basque Government amended the tenders to prevent collusion. And four, in the committee of inquiry into this matter, the People's Party – I am sure Mr Barrio will remember it – disallowed its parliamentarian, Mrs Bengoechea, breaking the agreement with us. And you know why? Because it has given priority to the malicious use of this matter in the face of the vision of construction and improvement of the system. And I note that with the current matter of consultants, they are all on the same path today. He also said Elkarrekin's spokesman We can say that this is just the tip of the iceberg, and that this is only part of the problem, because they are contracts to the finger. That's what you want, but I'm very sorry to disappoint you. Euskadi is the second-largest community to use the route of minor contracts, with 73% contracting by open procedure. The transparency, publicity and competition used in the recruitment methodology of the Basque Government, far from their allegations of indiscriminate use of minor contracts, is therefore noteworthy. But even so, we could not miss the great phrase of Elkarrekin Podemos: they worry that it is a capitalism of the consultancy or a outsourcing of the work of the government. Well, at least this time it's not because it's neoliberal. Do you believe that the knowledge provided in the contracted services can work in the hands of the Administration? The level of specialization and deep knowledge of matter makes it impossible for the Administration to have all the knowledge. Don't you, may we, in the ministries of the state? How, for example, will the Administration in such a special matter as the Animal Protection Act? Well, by bidding for services with specialized companies, as I said before, as you do in the ministries of the State. But why? Because the goal, as I said, is to do the best possible work with the greatest knowledge, of which the Administration does not have, because it is impossible. You also say that the myth of the good manager of the Basque Nationalist Party is crumbling. The myth of the good broken manager makes rage in the ranks of the opposition, from Vox to EH Bildu, passing through the People's Party and Podemos. Every time I hear you say that "it's cracking," I can't help but think that you're recognizing that all your life you've believed in the good management of the Basque Nationalist Party, more than anyone else.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u55	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u56	And that, therefore, all their lives have lied by denying it, because all their lives have had no other purpose than to break the PNV, and in what way. Of course, let them look at their opposition strategies. But this group will continue to do so, working for a diligent and transparent Administration that has the right control mechanisms in recruitment. And that's not keeping your arms crossed. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Passing on the answers, Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u58	Thank you very much, Madam President. Look, Mrs. Berrojalbiz – I think in a friendly way – often accuses me of pythonism sometimes. And, of course, here, the pity is that, in the end, I'm going to end up being right in the forecast I've made. I have tried to go straight to the point with the argumentation, so that we do not all devote ourselves to reading texts that we had previously prepared, and get a little into the bottom of the matter. But I'm going to try to synthesize and develop some point that I've had a little bit left to do before. Man, I think here what stands out from the interventions – with all due respect – of the groups that support the government is that they seem to be more concerned with exercising corporate lawyers than with exercising corporate lawyers. It's just that I see Mrs. Pérez's arguments: "It's that the CNMC sent multiple information requirements." Man, of course he sent information requirements to the administrations in the course of his investigation. And I insist again: it was already prescribed, because the prescription of the responsibility of the administrations at this point in Spain is overwhelmingly low. In others... It is something that is said enough in Europe, to see if it goes up a little bit. The subject of prescribing certain recovery actions has already been raised to five years. But this is still pending. The audit reports. Once again, I believe that, as Mrs Berrojalbiz rightly says, although I will do so with a different conclusion, I believe that things overlap or get confused. One thing is the procedure for awarding a contract, and another is the audit that is then done. That is to say, an audit, of course, is going to come out, it can come out perfectly well from a contract that has been wrongly awarded, of course, because all it does is check that the expenditure line was correct, that has been made, etc. By the way, when the control bodies, perhaps, have done their audits, they are likely not to have had this resolution of the CNMC or these emails in front of them. But I insist: that's another issue. It's another topic. The issue is how the award procedure has been. So, man, Mrs. Pérez herself has said – she has had no other remedy – "Well, she may have – textual words – negligence or punctual errors." Well, look, either by connivance, or by negligence, or by punctual errors, or by ignorance – which can be by ignorance, listen – because I think it is necessary to do an investigation. The motion is also drafted in a language that tries to narrow it down considerably. And it refers, as Mrs Berrojalbiz has rightly said, only to those who have been the negotiated procedures for a time. Unlike what Mrs Pérez has said, it is not a criticism to everyone, it is not – how did she say? – a criticism or question the work of all officials in all contracts. It is limited to a very specific and significant issue. He has put a lot of emphasis – it's interesting – on legitimate trust. Of course, it is a very interesting question this, because, on the one hand, of course, it prescribes the subject, it prescribes the deadline... By the way, the limitation and interruption of the limitation of time limits in the times we have lived, which is also established there, must also be taken into account in the subject of limitation that you have commented on – another very interesting argument for the defence of companies. But, well, I insist: it gives very good arguments for the defense of the parties. He said that the issue of legitimate trust is an aspect that, of course, if, on top of it, there is legitimate trust, it is that, in the end, they all leave in rositas. If, above, there is legitimate confidence, it will happen – I say again citing a very interesting case, which Mrs Berrojalbiz reminded us: the case of school eaters – that, above, the fine was lowered to companies, because it was said that the Administration had created a situation similar to what is legitimate confidence. Look, it's just, then... it's tremendous. So, here, in the end, it's nobody's fault. There is a very clear damage to the taxpayer, to the citizen. But, hey, it's nobody's fault. Skins to the sea. And nothing else. Man, I think this deserves an investigation, an independent investigation – I insist – serious, limited to a very specific issue, and, moreover, in which the Basque Government then assumes a role in defending the interests of the citizenry. It has also been remembered – Mr Estarrona has done, I think – some very interesting phrase that also slides the CNMC, the Competition Chamber: conducts by some elements of the Administration that might not have protection in our order. Man, that is a way of saying, of course, that here we have not, perhaps, been able to prove certain things. I am not going to go in there, but I am simply saying that the way – I know – so forceful that they oppose an investigation seems very negative to me, and, above all, it is that the only thing that is going to do is to feed everyone's interest in continuing to the end with this issue. Here today they have the necessary votes to overthrow this initiative. They'll win, but they won't convince. That is, they are going to win, of course; they are going to win the vote. It's just arithmetic. But they have not convinced with any of the arguments. They haven't convinced us. And worst of all, they haven't convinced society either. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u59	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together, Podemos-IU. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u60	Man, Mrs Pérez has read us some of the sections of the report and has made a lot of mention, as Mr Gordillo said, of the question of the lack of responsibility on the part of the administrations, in view of the defence made by the companies, of the confidence generated or the confidence generated by the administrations vis-à-vis the companies to understand that the process in which they were presenting their projects or the tender in which they were presenting themselves did not involve any kind of illegality. And it is true that the CNMC does not exempt companies from liability in its report, but that does not mean that it makes references of the kind – and I read textually – "From the content and tone of electronic communications between the companies included in the accredited facts, a climate of collaboration or structural consent can be inferred, as well as certainty and comfort in terms of operation in practice". In other words, it does affirm that the CNMC had indications of structural consent in practice to advance information in bidding processes. Similarly, it was also recently published in the press – it is said in the resolution textually, and it has also been said here by Mr Estarrona – that "some facts made by agents of the Administration may not have protection in our order", and it is said in textually. And, also in that same article, it is referenced – and so did the CNMC – that the ruling issued are considering whether to refer it to the Prosecutor's Office. So, we do believe that there is clear evidence to investigate this issue. And it's also that, when I said that this could be the tip of the iceberg of a much wider network, basically what I meant was that, from what has been studied, if we pull forward, if we analyze the data from the Euskadi Contracting Platform, we will be able to observe that there are 765 contracts with 12 of the consultants linked to the Northern Cartel. As the public database shows, these contracts amount to 189 million. In 60% of the 459 contracts analysed, there is only one company that has been submitted to the tendering process. A similar figure, 425, is smaller contracts. For us and for us, the interpretation of sections 122 and 162 of the Procurement Act gives the point that many of these contracts where there has only been one bidder in the procurement process should be investigated, and that is where we talked about that from those ten years onwards, in the years that followed, an analysis should also be made. And we believe that obviating that the Basque Competition Authority of Euskadi has lost all credibility and that the outsourcing of government has been a usual practice, and this links it to issues of negotiated processes in very technical aspects... If you go to the list of what has been proposed to be subcontracted or outsourced by the Basque Government, we will find examples that, in the end, are not a purely technical issue where technical and concrete advice is needed. We are talking about strategic plans, which we believe should be based on an initiative by the Basque Government, not, in any case, on consultants; the same way we criticized – and EH Bildu also did at the time – that the first proposal for strategic projects for European funds was determined by a consultant – yes, in coordination with the Basque Government – but, finally, a consultant was clearly involved. And like those there are many examples. One that seems to us has been mentioned..., come on, and which, moreover, unites both sides. The strategic plan of the Basque Competition Authority, who did it? One of the consultants, precisely, who is in doubt because of the issue of illegal tenders. So, finally, we believe that, if the Basque Competition Authority's strategic plan does so by a consultant, if that is not to outsource issues that are essential to public administration, you will tell me. We are not talking, at last, about the gigafactory of electric batteries, as we discussed a few weeks ago and that is a rather technical question; we are talking about strategic issues, of silence for public administrations. And we believe that in the initiative that has been negotiated what is being said is that the administration needs more research, or, basically, that it needs to be investigated, because little has been done by the Basque Government in relation to this matter; that an investigation process be initiated. And, if there are flaws, that is, if there are problems in the bidding process, which are corrected, and, if the monitoring bodies have not acted as they should, which is corrected; we do not see where there is a problem for the parliamentary groups supporting the Government. We are not here doing a..., we are not pointing to officials in the performance of their role, under no circumstances, nor are we making general criticisms, but we believe that, if there have been structural problems in the bidding process, they should be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u61	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u62	Thank you, President. The full commitment of all institutions to good practices in public procurement and the strict application of existing law is essential. And of course a cautious attitude must be maintained, especially because the procedure remains open. There is now a contentious-administrative remedy in the National Court, and, well, that caution must be maintained, and, moreover, a collaborative attitude must be maintained to provide all the information required. Moreover, the Government is making available to Parliament all the information requested in relation to the procurements that have been carried out with the undertakings concerned, and the best way to prevent the occurrence of such restrictive practices of competition in public procurement is to strengthen transparency and improve the regulatory regulation of this important administrative aspect, such as the abolition of contracts negotiated without publicity on the basis of amounts, in fact; precisely, the procedure used in the vast majority of the tenders investigated by the CNMC. And, fortunately, it has created another new award procedure, which must be extended even further and work must be done, which is the simplified open procedure. It is designed precisely for this purpose for contracts, and so that their duration is very short and processing very simple; but, I see, without neglecting the necessary publicity and transparency in the tendering procedure of the contract. At the same time, it is essential that public administrations ensure the correct application of public procurement legislation and, in particular, respect for the principles of advertising and competition. And they can promote the follow-up of these good practices even with good practice manuals. These are the main tools that can lead to an improvement in recruitment, and not, in our view, the opening of new investigations, investigations that seem to be claimed simply in the spirit of co-responsibility of public administrations in general, and of the Basque Government in particular, for improper and restrictive conduct on the competition of certain bidders. That is why we have not understood the substance or the times that justify this motion, Mr Gordillo, because, in any case, the Basque Government, far from being part of this dossier, should be regarded, as has been said here, as one of the victims of the alleged cartel and of the alleged restrictive practices of competition. Parliament, through our initiatives, is carrying out an activity of impulse and control of the Government. But I think, humbly, that it is not appropriate to urge you to recall certain actions which are within your competence and which you will analyse in your case and at your time. On the other hand, they submit this motion when they have requested documented information regarding the recruitment of the Basque Government with the consulting companies sanctioned by the CNMC. And this information has not yet been provided, inter alia, because the deadline for referral has not been completed. It gives the impression that these initiatives of opposition groups or proponents, sincerely, respond to other interests, rather than show a real interest in such research and what improvements can be made in order to avoid such actions in the future. And finally, as far as EH Bildu, Mr. Estarrona, is concerned, I simply say that when he speaks – I did not see him – that when he talks about the control bodies being disabled, I think that is not a good statement, because it is a way of discrediting the institutions, and, moreover, it is that, indirectly or even if it is not desired, many officials and professionals who work in those control bodies are being questioned. I just wanted to leave that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u64	Yes, thank you. I do not wish to divert the dispute, but, Madam de Berrojalbbez, I will give you reason in one thing: I believe that the society of Araba, Bizkai, and Gipulia, has been deceived for many years with this sort of good management of yours. Yes, yes, yes. I believe, yes, that's what it was, and that it's getting more and more obvious, because all the sewings are breaking, and the other things are being caused by this crisis. So, in that case, I'll give you a reason. And I'll tell you what. I'll tell you what. I don't shut up, and I'll have many other privations and many bad things, but I'm not a hypocrite. And I, AVC and CNMC, support the disappearance of them. Yeah. I don't believe the theories of Milton Friedman in economics, of free market, which I don't believe. So I don't believe in any of these organs. And that is why we have insisted on the disappearance of these organs, which are to do well, to judge, to explore, to judge, or search things, other ways of putting other organs, both for the interest of all, and not for the interest or interest of some corporations. And one thing I didn't like at all: to say, in a sense, our responsibilities and their use. Look, EH Collect had the opportunity to bring the subject into the first check facility, and he didn't bring it. He had a chance to make PNLa, or then, by means of an interpelation, he did not. Why? Because we take these things seriously. And, first of all, we've been asking for information, written questions, matches. Yeah? And then we'll see. We don't have any prejudices. And all those here today are data. Hechos, datos y extraractos del informe. Y todos, constatables. Por lo tant, eso sí que no le permito, que cuescemente la responsabilidad de Euscala de res incora. It said the lehendakari Urkullu in the last full of control that it is not the public administrations that are the investigated, but the companies, clues and evidence. And I was right, because these have been the ones investigated. And public administrations have been made requirements, as has been said here, but have not been investigated, whether there was collusion or not. We have to look into it. We have to look into it. We need to clear up responsibilities. Because there may not have been, and then it will be good for all Basque society. And, if there has been, it will have to clear responsibilities, and it will also be good. And it is that I have read before the extract that I may not have protection in our order, which has also been repeated by other speakers of the House. But it is that, in the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country itself, in its jurisprudence, in its judgment, it is the companies, it is the appellant itself who points out the connivance of the contracting public entities with the contracting companies, stating that, "if the Basque Competition Authority had made requests for prior information, it would have been possible to observe how it was the contracting public entities themselves that requested the future contracting company the name of two companies to invite in order to comply with the conditions imposed by the law". Judgment of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Republic. They are not prejudices, they are not hypotheses made by Euskal Herria Bildu. They're not. Urkullu also said that he has believed that what the Basque Government has done in this first phase – we knew in the full control; it is fine – that all the tenders promoted by the Basque Government were at the time monitored by the interventional control bodies and by the Basque Court of Public Accounts itself. That is what the Basque Government has done. Well, then, what I said before: this only makes it clear that the model of the control and control bodies of the Basque public administrations is completely exhausted, completely exhausted, and it is independent of the officials, because the councils already know what they are called, and I have already said before what is the set and what is the team and alignment of these councils, and of the Office of Economic Control of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, as well as of the Basque Competition Authority. This only certifies that this model of the control bodies, audits, control of the Basque public administrations is completely exhausted, is disabled, is disabled, and I repeat, and is useful, but, above all, it is in credibility. Because the means at our disposal today in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa are not enough to prevent fraudulent practices. And that remains, for example, in the memory of the Prosecutor's Office every year, and so says the prosecutor of economic crimes, urged as a new, independent and objective body, not politicized, in favour of good practices and against corruption and clientelism so rooted in these latitudes, because this which we are debating here today is a very deep-rooted practice. And even President Alba Urresola herself says, which is a very deep-rooted practice in Euskadi, that customer networks in this country are very well-established. And in the face of this, balloons out, I'm talking about other communities, how many cases are there... "You, a contract in 2012 – oh! – with a consultant"; my mother!, against 84. In fact, I think that some of them don't mean that they're normal in our country, and we can't accept them as if they were. Cases that come out into the light are piled up, they're crowding, and we don't know how big this dark hole has. This was the last case... ,
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u65	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u66	...presence notice, but more will come. We'll reach the end, or at least we'll try. For in the worthy people we desire to build and to live, such as these, there is no room for them. Today, you've got a chance to vote for this motion, to accept a transfer on Thursday to the Setts and Security Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u67	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Eubertarians. Mrs. Bergeralbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Reality or fiction, I used to say. We have experienced this pandemic, but sometimes I imagine it; I am not invisible, but sometimes I also imagine it. I think and I fantasize. Letting your imagination go is a very cheap and simple exercise. We can transform any reality with the desire or not for it to be fulfilled. We can lie, manipulate, deceive, joke...; we can tell some half truth or credible lies, but, in the end, reality is imposed, and, whether we like it or not, it is what it is. This personal experience, that of dreaming or imagining that this pandemic has not shaken us, for example, we can take it to the field of politics, to debates like today, which have a lot of fantasy but little reality. And the truth is that doing politics from falsehoods or misrepresentations is much easier and better for objectives that seek to commit themselves to hoisting the shoulder and cooperating to, among all, make the Administration more transparent every day and have better practices. But you are more of a presumption of guilt than a presumption of innocence; you want to investigate something when we already have your sentence. What do we, then, want an investigation for? It is not very uplifting – and I am sure society is aware of this – that those who have no government responsibilities are dedicated to using lies as a political strategy, with the sole aim of soiling the image of those who, like this government, are leaving themselves behind for this country to move forward and be a good example in the administration. Mistakes? Of course, but no interested fallacies. They have been answered in Parliament to their questions and inquiries, provided by the Basque Government with the required information, and explained their course of action. But you guys, to yours. It's a good thing we live in a society in which we are very good at distinguishing fiction from reality. They have presented themselves here today with a whole series of statements that, with the facts in hand, do not stand up, and they do so without deceiving themselves. We are told – and not hypothetically – that there is connivance between some sanctioned companies and the Administration. We are told without the slightest blush that this is one more case of corruption and patronage of the Basque Nationalist Party, that the Basque Government has become the best defense of the consultants. It's just that they don't tell a single truth. It's just that nothing they say has anything to do with everyday practice. The unlawful conduct established by law is that of enterprises. So his fantasies go far, far away from reality. They dream of conversations with officials who talk about their superiors – loads, of course, of the PNV – who encourage bad practices; they fantasize about investigations into the Basque Government... But all of a sudden, the cantaro falls and returns them to the reality of a clean, transparent, rigorous and improved institution, an institution that does not look elsewhere and that monitors compliance with legality and control systems. They play artifice games, with very serious accusations, that come out for free. Because lying is easier than recognizing that in Euskadi your institutions are committed to rigour and good practices. And don't forget one thing: when they accuse the Government, in addition to putting their finger on their highest responsibility, they also put it on officials, whose work is fundamental to detect these behaviors. They question their course and their control tasks, complex control tasks. I don't know how you don't get the idea of the difficulty in identifying and proving the existence of this kind of behavior, given the size of the resolution and the length of time it takes to resolve it. And that is the raison d'être of the competition authorities: to set up themselves as specialized bodies with supervisory and sanctioning powers to ensure compliance with competition rules. Therefore, the administrations cannot assign this competence or have the powers. The responsibility for compliance with recruitment rules lies with the administrations, which promote the monitoring of good practices in order to detect irregularities. Mr Soto, who has said that it is not done when such activities and good practices are promoted? In these tasks of prevention, control and training in good practice, the Government is focused, because they are the main tools that can enable an improvement in public procurement. Do you believe that an unwarranted investigation can contribute to this? No; it can only help for one purpose: yours, that of co-responsabilizing the administrations of conduct other than them. Because, even if it bothers them, transparency and good governance is what this government defines. And the refusal of your enterprises does not mean that we have no bets for transparency; a co-worker, a transparent attitude to avoid any irregularity. RenkM and Mr. President have confirmed the commitment to a good practice in public contract and to fulfill the strict legislation that is already established. And in that he will be protected by the EAJ, when those who have voted have given him no guile at all. And I'll give you some examples of transparence and goodgestion.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u69	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u70	Bai, amaitzeko, andrea president. The European Quality of Government Index, where the Basque Government is the best in the state and the tenth best in Europe in institutional quality, impartiality in the provision of public services and at the level of corruption. In the last available index of transparency of the Autonomous Communities, Euskadi, in the first position. And, on the part of the political parties, last month's Sociometer, with results that reinforce the commitment of the government and the Basque Nationalist Party to society to continue working day by day on solving the problems we have. The policy is not based on surveys, but on work, involvement and the desire to improve. And that is precisely what this survey teaches us and what encourages us. Opposition groups should make their analysis and see whether the strategy of being absolutely against everything is correct or not. They may persist or rectify. We will always be committed to work in common. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. End of discussion, we'll vote together with the middle-direction signed by Podemos-IUk and Basque Populara-Ciudados. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 75; the supporters 34; the contraries, 41; the abstainments, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u72	So it's not accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Motion, introduced by the members of the Casanova Alonso EH Group, about the planning of the electric motion. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Casanova, your word is to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u73	Hello. Thank you, ma'am. Hello, good afternoon. I'm going to propose an imaginary discussion to begin with. Imagine I have a box here, and I've come to introduce a new discovery inside this box, a great inventory. This inventory will revolutionize communications. People will approach each other. It will open new options to leisure, multiply productivity, reduce distances... Sounds like a good idea, but I'll read you a little letter. This inventory will provoke the 20th. more dead than all the wars of the century, by accidents, and by so many diseases. Besides, war will provoke them, disasters, and even, like bonus track, the planet will lead to the limit of its survival. You'll figure out what that invention is. This invention is the carriage. And it proves that sometimes we accept things by degrees, and then, when we see the consequences, it is too late to take measures, or at least to control the forces we have freed. I said that the car has caused, for example, more deaths than the wars in the 20th century. And I can give data on this and other issues to which I referred in the introduction. According to the World Health Organization, the car causes 1.3 million deaths in traffic accidents each year, and between 20 and 50 million serious injuries. 51 deaths per year in the Basque Autonomous Community. Today we are going to talk about the advantages of the electric car with respect to the thermal car. And it is true that, in the field of accidents, an electric car would not exceed 100% the existence of accidents, but it would be inserted in two ways into a mobility paradigm that will help reduce such accidents: on the one hand, the introduction of new technologies and driving aids, which will make driving safer; and, on the other hand, a new technological paradigm, in which speed and power will lose their centrality in favour of other issues such as ease of use, connectivity or safety itself. But the first finding is that the car, the private car has caused tens of millions of victims in the last century. It has caused these victims in accidents, and it has also caused them as a result of pollution. It said the other day, in another intervention, that the impact of CO emissions 2 on climate change seems to have left in the background, except in some cities with very acute pollution problems, the other contaminating dimension of the thermal car, which is precisely urban emissions, emissions in towns and cities, and health conditions, which directly causes deaths. There are different studies. In the Spanish State, it is estimated that 9,500 deaths per year are caused by diseases caused by car emissions. And here there is a differential factor that electric cars are not going to do and thermal cars are doing: 9,500 deaths per year in the Spanish State; similar data for France. In Barcelona, only in the city, they talk about 1,000 deaths due to the pollution produced by the car. And I do not have a specific study, but, by a rule of three applied to the Basque Autonomous Community according to its population with regard to the deaths in the Spanish State, that would determine that more than 400 people die each year in the Basque Autonomous Community from car pollution. It is a tremendous, irreparable and incalculable cost in human lives. But the economic cost of cars with combustion engines and vans with the same system has also been calculated. The Basque Government itself has carried out a study on the external costs of air pollution, which determines that cars and electric vans, through their contribution to diseases and, therefore, to the economic cost of treating these diseases, and their contribution to climate change, generate an annual cost of EUR 350 million, an impact of EUR 350 million on these realities which affect, as I said, health and climate change. We also have a trade balance, in terms of costs, in which the energy deficit, the need to import energy products, mainly oil and gas, to feed this carocentric society, generates a deficit in this section of EUR 3 billion per year. It is true that it is compensated in the balance of payments with other exports, some of them also related to the motor world, but that energy deficit, that centrality of fossil fuels leads us to be deficient by the amount of 3 billion euros. Therefore, and to finish this presentation, as a summary: in the Basque Autonomous Community, 51 people died of traffic accidents in 2019 – we will take on average 50–; more than 400, for diseases. That is to say, almost 500 people die annually from accidents and diseases caused by the car; 350 million cost us externalities in the form of pollution and climate change, and 3 billion euros our energy bill comes out. Eta hori guztia, beat eraginkorra ez den system bat elikatzeko; ez da beat eraginkorra. If I asked you – almost as a joke – whether from a thermodynamic point of view it is humans or cats who use a car more efficiently, well, I suppose you would imagine that there is a cat locked up in the question; obviously, there is a cat locked up. The answer is it's the cat. Cats use cars more efficiently from a thermodynamic point of view. Why? Because a car, basically a thermal motor car, is a heat-making machine, and cats, as you know, look to get in the hood or get between the wheels to warm up. Cats use a car efficiently, thermodynamically, because they use it for their main function: 70% of the energy becomes heat. Only 30% goes to the function for which these machines are theoretically designed, which is the movement. Not to mention another series of inefficiencies in the whole process of processing the raw material, because, when calculations are made of what pollutes the electric car and the thermal car, well, the electric car is charged – rightly – the whole production process and the generation of electricity – it seems that gasoline some understand that it comes out of trees that are next to the gas stations, but no; there is a cost. There is a cost that involves a loss of energy throughout the process, from the extraction and pumping of oil, its transport, its refining, transporting it again, etc., etc. This also causes environmental catastrophes, provokes wars, provokes geopolitical conflicts, etc., etc. And this whole system so painful, harmful in environmental terms and in terms of health, so inefficient in energy terms, so expensive in economic costs has been maintained for a long time for two fundamental reasons: first, because of the incredible energy density of the original raw material on which this whole system is built, which is oil, and, second, because of the illusion of the inexhaustibility of this energy source. Energy density is maintained despite inefficiency, but exhaustion is evident. Moreover, the effects that are very close to being irreversible, if not irreversible, on the climate change of the use of this type of fuel are also noted. "Pero hay una saena noticia." No es para echar las campanas al vullo, pero las chaosas pueden crary, and changes, changes, happen. And we, in this proposal, proposed a challenge of a decade, concerning the mobile nature of making a change. I'll show you two pictures, maybe, some of you, who follow this discussion, will probably recognize them. This is the 5th part of the United States. A photo of the avenue on one day of parade, a 1910th century. Here, as you will see, are all carriages drawn on horseback, and here, red, there is only one car. This is the same spot ten years later. You'll see they're all thermal cars, and with a horse here, a single car. At a period of ten such a change occurred in the United States with regard to mobiles. Baina badauzkagu beast kasu batzuk gertuagokoak, gertuagokoak. Norwegian, horrelako aldaketa bat egin hamarkada batan, horrelako trantsizio bat hamarkada batan, hamarkada batar. In 2010, in Norway, 1% of electric cars were sold; in 2020, 54% were sold. Adding up the rest of the electrified cars, it reaches up to 83%, to complete 31% of the car fleet today composed of electric cars. It is true that Norway has some specificities that we do not have here. It has a number of economic resources, both in the population and in the Government; it has renewable energy sources in abundance; and it also has, paradoxically, oil money, which allows it to finance all these kinds of bets. But when Norway made this transition between 2010 and 2020, it had worse starting conditions than we have at the moment, that we do not have the oil money or the level of income or access to renewable energy in Norway. But today, the technological development of the electric car and the recognition of the irreversibility of its implementation give us much greater advantages than Norway had in 2010. We know that technology is viable, we know that technological changes and productive improvements are making the product cheaper and more accessible, and we know that it is the winning option. We therefore have to make our own transition over the course of this decade, similar or even superior to that of Norway. Because, in practice, despite the advantages of the electric car over the thermal car, we are staying behind, and we have already explained it on other occasions, but I think that the thread of argumentation is important to point out. We're falling behind. The Spanish State is lagging behind Europe, and the Basque Country, the Basque Autonomous Community, is lagging behind the Spanish State, both in recharging infrastructure and in the number of electrified vehicles out of the total. Again, we have the Spanish State at the tail, and the Basque Country, the Basque Autonomous Community, below the average. It is therefore imperative that this transition be carried out. But it is also essential for it to be carried out, for it to be given a strong political impulse, a political impulse which, today, has not been given and which, today, we have come to demand. And it is true: we have now made an agreement, a agreement with the sects that maintain the government, at least the first exercise of that impulse which is wanting. We cannot forget and do not want to overlook the fact that the electric car also pollutes. Contaminates in its production; contaminates in its load, if the energy mix that feeds it, despite being electrical, has emissions when generating that electricity; contaminates in its use from the emission of small particles, from the brakes, from the wheels. It takes up space. It can also cause accidents. And it is inefficient in terms of material use and energy, if used individually. Therefore, we are not talking about the panacea itself. What we are talking about is a new mobility model, based on a paradigm shift, in which the mobility reserved for the private car is exclusively linked to the electric car. Because it is true that, despite its objective disadvantages, compared to normal cars, the level of emissions is zero in terms of polluting gases, and, in terms of greenhouse gases, even with the worst energy mix in the European Union, it is 30% lower in terms of CO emissions. 2 , is 60% lower in CO emissions 2 with the average energy production of the European Union; that is, it produces one third of the emissions, and, in addition, with prospects of rapid evolution, so that it will produce even less. Therefore, the transition to a new mobility is not exclusively due to the deployment of the electric car, but it is due to the fact that all private car use is by electric car and the thermal car disappears. For that, there are problems, and we've often discussed them. And this is a good news, which means that the subject is continually working on this legislature, which has been advanced by the bold political resolutions which have been made, or at least I do not know how brave they have been, but at least political resolutions have been made to limit the flow of the vehicles, and, by a regulation, corporations have been forced to pursue such a course. For the time being, there are four main obstacles for generalization of the electric car: the first is price; the second is the boundary of autonomy, the third is the speed of loading, and the fourth is the breadth of the superchargement. As for autonomies and cargo speed, we believe companies and the world of research are doing a lot of work. And progress is being seen from one day to the next: the batteries are better and better; they become less and less polluted; they have more storage capacity, they are charging faster and faster, etc., etc. It's still missing, but hundreds of ways are working through the investigation. And surely the result will be that autonomy will be much better, as well as the speed of the cargo. As for the price, we have also to say that we discussed other discussions, and now I'll determine a little bit more about TRUE, which is cheaper than an electric car in the life of the car. The price of buying is bigger, but the maintenance and, of course, energy is a lot cheaper. OCU, (organizizion de Consumidores, y Usuaries of the Spanish State), has said that in 11 years an electric car is saved by an electric car with a termo of the same character. But it's true that there's a laugh at the moment because the price of buying is higher. And over there, we need to help. And there, you need help. And the second chief obstacle, to which we must answer from politics, is the net. There must be a load network to make the product truly available. A lot of people have a chance to load up in the garage, but still it will take long trips to get a stack of loads spread out. And others have no garages directly. Then they have all their dependence on the public charge. That's what you have to answer. And we believe in the agreement we have made to-day, though in general we do not exactly relate all the particulars, we put a very proper frame to answer the principal subjects. We shall try a proposition about the three axes: the first, to mark ambitious ends in the laws and plans that make the government, is to conciliate with at least the ends of Europe, that this is humble, but often we remain behind.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u74	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u75	Yeah, I'm about to finish it. And, moreover, to improve the helps, to install the cargo points, without forgetting to encourage them to share their movement, to push the use of other electric vehicles, and finally, even philosophically, to overcome carzentism. That's what we agreed on. And we think it's a starting-point. Now, we're gonna have to fill out the considents.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u76	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing over the teams that were running the corrections, representing the Basque Popular Group-Ciudados. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Electric cars are undoubtedly a future trend and it seems inevitable. So it seems very good to us, it seems appropriate to us, that we in this Parliament should devote a little time to thinking and planning, as far as possible, this reality, which is going to be our life soon. There will be many changes that we are going to experience in the coming years in terms of mobility. Replacing fossil fuels with other types of energy is just one of the changes that is going to happen. The autonomous vehicles are going to be another, the shared vehicles... Finally, a set of major changes that are going to take place in this area, and all of them are related to each other, so that we are close to a real paradigm shift in this issue, which will affect our lifestyles, but it will also affect our environment, our industry and our economy. With regard to the change in driving energy, we should differentiate, in order to be rigorous, that which will feed small cars from which it will surely feed industrial vehicles, because it does not have to be the same, but it does seem that, at least in the short term, electric energy is the one that is imposed on the mobility of non-industrial cars. And this will require an important effort to establish a recharge network in our homes, streets and roads, of which today we have nothing but in an incipient way. But, in a recent debate on the manufacture of electric car batteries right here, we have already highlighted an important issue, and it is not yet known what kind of batteries are going to drive our electric cars in the future. If we know clearly that the current lithium ion batteries are not going to be, because they are expensive, heavy and slow, slow in the charge, and we also know that new solid electrolyte technologies are being developed around the world, which are in different stages of R & D, but it is not yet clear what technology will eventually be made with the market. From here on, we know little about what the future is going to be, because it is actually an accelerated global change, with different levels of impact, with large doses of uncertainty, and that, given our small size, we will not be able to control at all, which will force us to be very careful to see where trends evolve and to be very flexible to adapt as quickly as possible to them. And how are we in Euskadi today on this subject? Well, we regret to have to point out that this too is getting out of hand. It is true that in recent years some efforts have been made to electrify mobility in Euskadi, but it is clear that they have been smaller than what we need, smaller than what is being done in other autonomous communities and smaller than what is being done in Europe, as this graph clearly shows. But let's go through the parts. In May 2019, ANFAC's electromobility report began with the following sentence: "Vasco, Catalonia and Madrid are positioned as the leading autonomous communities in electromobility." This, two years ago. Two years later, we have gone from being one of the leading autonomous communities to being the tenth and being below the average. In just two years, we've gone from being on the pointers to being below the average. The Electromobility Barometer shows that Euskadi is worse than other autonomous communities in terms of infrastructure and market, and, in fact, one is a consequence of the other, since if the user is not comfortable or has doubts as to how he will be able to load his vehicle, it is difficult for him to jump. Only 3%, 3.8% of Spain's charging infrastructure is located in the Basque Country. And 85% are less than 22 kilowatts, which makes the recharge too slow. With a power of less than 22, the full charging time of an electric vehicle can be up to 19 hours. For most common uses, that waiting time to have full load is too long, and, to date, throughout the territory we only have ten public access recharge points with a power greater than 250 kilowatts that ensure full recharge in less than 15 minutes. That is, we need to invest more in recharge infrastructure, because we are not doing it at the same rate and speed as the rest of the autonomous communities. We can say that the electromobility train has not yet left the station; it is true. And we are in time to go up to him; it is true. But everywhere are already ringing the alarms that announce the doors close, and we're late. As far as Europe is concerned, the difference is growing, and Euskadi is lagging behind in that race. There are countries in our environment, such as France, Germany or even Portugal, that take us more than two years to advance. This means that Euskadi's electromobility infrastructures in 2021 are equivalent to those they had in 2019, and this circumstance, which is already a problem, is not the worst, because, if we compare it with the rest of Europe, we see that a year ago we were 11.7 points from the European average in the ANFAC electromobility index and now we are 23.6 points. It's not that we don't grow up, we're doing it. The nuclear issue is that we grow much less than others, and the worst thing is that every day that passes the distance increases rather than narrows. It is true that we have different initiatives that can promote electromobility, such as the MOVES II programme; MOVES III; the Renovation Plan; the Transport and Efficient Mobility Aid Plan, with 2 million euros... But we need to articulate all these initiatives with a plan, because all these aids are trying to reinvigorate in favour of electromobility, but I have my doubts as to whether they are sufficient and, above all, whether they all remain in the same direction. Therefore, we consider it necessary to update the Integral Electric Mobility Plan that published the EVE in 2018 with a vision to 2030. This plan must take into account the rapid implementation of the electric car that we are having at this time, which goes beyond the most optimistic scenario that the previous one posed. We must have some lines of action, concrete initiatives and a proportionate budget. The idea is to align all efforts to stop being in line on this issue. In addition, we need to evaluate the initiatives contained in the plan for 2018-2020, and we need to understand how we have moved from being one of the main autonomous communities in electromobility in 2019 to being, as we are, below average. We need to understand what we have done wrong, what has failed, what has not worked as it should, and we need to correct it quickly. We would like this plan to be brought to Parliament and we could discuss it, because from our parliamentary group we are very keen to contribute to this issue, which we believe is vital and is going to affect this generation and the next generations. We would like to discuss it as we have done with the Basque Employment Strategy 2030. But, having said all this, we have to say that the proposal that Bildu brings here today does not seem to us to be well focused or that is what Euskadi needs. In its first point, it proposes reducing people's mobility needs and replacing them with public and shared transport. We believe that people have to be able to go wherever they want, whenever and as they want, and that the role of the institutions is not to impose public or shared transport on them, but to offer them alternatives for them to choose. That is, electric vehicles will succeed if they are an efficient means of transport that citizens decide to buy and use, but completely free. Citizens have to be able to go to Madrid by train, by car, by plane, by bus or by bicycle, but above all, let them decide how they go. And I don't think it should be the institutions that tell them how they have to go. In its second point, the proposal proposes the creation of an intergovernmental commission. And every time I hear these kinds of proposals, I can't help but remember that famous phrase attributed to Napoleon: "If you want something to be done, appoint a responsible person; and if you want something to take forever, appoint a commission." The third point called for the 75 % target for the sale of electric cars and vans on the total number of vehicles sold. The objective seems too ambitious and unrealistic. For example, ANFAC, on this topic, says: "The goal must be to place the average age of the Spanish car park in nine years on average. To do this, 19 million vehicles need to leave the park by 2030 and be replaced by 14 million vehicles, of which more than 3 million will be electrified, and about 4 million, conventional hybrids." This strategy, combined with changes in vehicle use models, will allow, according to the entity's calculations, a 50% reduction in CO emissions 2 , even above the objectives of the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan. ANFAC therefore considers that a reasonable target would be 50 %. In short, electric mobility is going to be a major challenge for our society in the coming years. And in Euskadi we're falling behind. We need to make strong investments to catch up, coordinated by a rigorous and ambitious plan to ensure their coherence and encourage the deployment of the charging network and the renovation of the car fleet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u78	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u79	Thank you, ma'am. Again, good morning to all. First of all, we must congratulate ourselves on the fact that we have had the opportunity to make a deal on this subject. And we give it a lot of importance, it's not a small matter. The agreement of a firm strategy in patience, in mobileness, and in so many things which will have so much influence in the future, is of great importance to us Socialist euscals. Between the hinges of this government, there is a law of tolerable motion through the law, a law which looks into the future. There is a project, and in the text about which, in accordance with it, there is also a place for reflection; as in a given instance, the tolerable and efficient activity of men and merchandise, for instance, about the various lives we have, about the telematic plan, which also affects motion and endurance. And the government is conscious. From this point of view the agreement has been concluded through the medium. The preliminary draft law on sustainable mobility has among its objectives the configuration of an integrated transport system, coordinated and without doubles and inefficiencies, so that transport in the Autonomous Community of Euskadi turns out to be a single system, encouraging, in turn, innovative, advanced transport systems, managed on the basis of criteria for internationalisation of costs. Its objectives are clear: to contribute to the improvement of the environment and the safety and health of citizens by reducing air and noise pollution; to implement measures to deter the use of private vehicles, promoting active mobility through the use of public transport; to prioritize public and collective transport, using renewable energy sources; to provide a public transport offer that ensures universal accessibility; to promote the territorial balance of the Basque Autonomous Community and the competitiveness of its economic fabric through a transport infrastructure network that enhances internal and external connectivity; to enhance intermodality in the transport of persons and goods from an integrated and coordinated public transport network and logistics centres; to introduce computer and telematic means, and new technologies in general, in the management of transport and sustainable mobility, both in terms of payment and information to travellers; to articulate an inter-administrative relationship system organized by a method of structural planning. Therefore, as can be seen, the text places particular emphasis on laying the groundwork for a change in the mobility model, based on the use of renewable energy, including, of course, electrical energy, but not confined exclusively to it, in order to promote all possible alternatives to reduce the consumption of fossil fuels for the protection of the environment and the decarbonisation of the transport sector as a whole. Although, of course, we are well aware that the use of electricity from renewable energy generation is essential to make a qualitative leap in the transport model and, above all, in the model of sustainable mobility. We see a need – among other things, certainly – to generate a reflection on the model of mobility of people and goods, to develop policies that drive a transport model based on a shared public alternative, as is being done through dialogue with agents and experts in relation to the preliminary draft law on sustainable mobility mentioned to them. Electric vehicles are certainly an essential part of this new mobility model. It's the future, and we can't be strangers to it. And the government is taking a stand for this, as with the new PIME plan, which must certainly aim to gradually increase the percentage of passenger cars and electric vans on the total sale of these vehicles, so that, if possible, in 2030 at least the targets set by the European Union will be equal. To this end, we agree that it is key to generate a road map of measures and objectives and a timetable with milestones of intermediate evaluation for the promotion of the sale of these types of vehicles and the deployment of the public cargo network at different levels of power. In order to achieve this, it is also essential that this plan includes the objectives set out in this compromise amendment, which will be signed by EH Bildu, Basque Nationalists and Basque Socialists. It is committed to sustainability; to the use of renewable energy in transport; to efficient and rational, balanced, efficient mobility, which is bet on public transport; to the use of renewable energy; and, therefore, to a model of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u80	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Your word is broad.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u81	Yeah. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good noon to all. It is clear that our planet requires change of the model of motion, as well as our society. And it is also evident that this change will not happen from one day to another, and will not happen since yesterday to-day. Mr. Casanova has brought us the Norwegian case. In this country, in 1990, the electric car began to push, with a stately help, helping hybrids and electric cars more than 30 years ago. It's not a one- decade job. And today, the electric cars market in that country is 33%. And when we speak of the pattern, we do not merely mean to start towards the electric, but to make a tolerable model, which must be our purpose as a people. And we agree that one of the foundations of patient motion will be electrical, but always understood within a more general frame. And we think it's necessary to explain that. We would say that we have a period of modification, and in this development we would separate two distinct spheres; On the other hand, the habits of individuals are the same. As to the former, it would chiefly affect the design of our cities and nations, and the transports we make use of. And this first demands a profound reflection: to know where we are going, and how, when it is clear, we are going to get hold of it. And we may say that we have a clear idea where we are going: to the deconquentization of our peoples, cities, countries, and planet. And there, all the teams, and society in general unites. But this is the question: Do we want to transform into electric transport parks from our own country? Or is it our goal to have our country bearable? Most of us will probably agree that our goal is second. And for that, the first step is electrifying vehicles? Or, as I have already mentioned, what sort of steps should the people have to dissect what we please? What do we mean by that? That it is essential to make a proper planning, which demands an association of institutions. Each man according to his rights, but we must row in the same direction together. And we also have to understand the electric electricity as part of the tolerable motion. And in this sense, we have a long way to go, though we're already started, and we have here the example of our capitals giving us the first steps of the yaxing process. That's one of the commitments to this government, and that's how it's recorded in the government program signed between the two parties that make fun of it. And he's working on it. In the Basque Autonomy Er member, he made an integrated plan on electrical motion in 2018. And it is true that the expected result was not attained, but it does not mean that it does not follow, or that the engagement has been cancelled. Alde battik, badago dja argitaratua Euskadiko mugikortasun jasangarriaren lege-aureproiektua. And, on the other hand, we have the Energy Strategy of Euskadi 2030, whose strategic line 2 is to reduce dependence on oil in the transport sector. And how? One, promoting sustainable mobility and the use of more efficient modes of transport; two, promoting the use of more efficient vehicles and their efficient use; and three, promoting the use of alternative fuels and technologies. It's true that Euskadian vehicles' park has been stabled for years, but after 70 percent of 1990. According to our data, there are 1,2 million vehicles in our community, from which are 945,000 tourisms, 187, trucks, and vans, and 3120 buses. And it must be acknowledged that the growth of that park in the last ten leagues, that the miles of the vehicles, and the extra transports of diesel fuel, have caused the emissions of the car nittrogen oxid, now the main problem of the air's quality. It's an emergency strategy to promote fuel and patient technology use in transport. Another example of the firm wager of the government to the tolerable motion of the Government is Basque Green, which agrees with the Green Testament of Europe, and one of its works is bearable in motion; or of Euskade 2030 Science, Technology, and Newion Plan, where RIS3 Euskitadi 2030 in the fund of intelligent selections, an electric motion. I said at the beginning of the discussion, we separate two compounds, and the second is the habits of individuals. And even in that case, we're not a good challenge. Institutions must make a suitable plan for tolerable motion, and all necessary resources must be put into their hands, but if we do not make pedagogia in society, we may not arrive at the end of demonization. In our time, the use of one's car or autozentism is very wide, and that's how it's been recorded in some reports. Today, I'm going to mention the facts in a Greenpeace report. According to UN data – pre-pandemic data – urban population is expected to increase from 73% in 2014 to over 80% in 2050. Cities are home to more than 70% of the current population of the European Union and account for about 85% of the Union's GDP. Most displacements begin and end in cities. What does that mean? Well, for our daily journeys, even though we move in our village or town, we take the car. We, too, must take a step and change our habits. Our two feet, the bike, the skatenet... I mean, we have to bet on active motion. We should use the public transport more, share the cars. Society must make choice of a change of manners. It is true that we have a great deal to do in a tolerable motion; it is true we have a long way to walk; but it is true that our party believes that we are on the right track. Steps must be taken, and there is an engagement to continue. And we have also given the first step to create the law of tolerable motion. And we must not forget that, in order to carry out all these initiatives, inter-institutional collaboration will be essential, as well as the support of private actors and the involvement of society. The agreement that we have reached today is a great step towards the commitment to continue transforming Euskadi, so that our streets, squares, neighborhoods are increasingly cleaner, less polluted. We have a big challenge ahead of us. All of us – institutions, companies, society – need to change habits and practices to achieve more sustainable mobility. And, finally, Mr. Casanova, I can't shut up. And I need to tell you that I don't know those outline sizes you bring us today's debates in color that are compatible with the Din A3s. Perhaps we should also lead bearability to the different areas of our life. And that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Together, Podemos-IU. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u83	Good morning. We are talking again about a very important issue for the country, which is how to make what is today a strategic sector for Euskadi, such as the automotive sector, with sustainability and with the need for a more sustainable mobility model than we have today and which has been imposed in recent decades. And it is that mobility in the country, in addition to its functional aspect – obviously – also represents a fundamental sector in relation to employment, and therefore the transition that must take place in relation to the model of mobility that takes place in the country will have many implications in terms of work and, fundamentally – which is equally important to us – in its ecological and transition and sustainable development model. In any case, and in relation to this debate – there was also a debate on this issue a few weeks ago – there are long-term objectives and measures that, in order to achieve those objectives in the medium term, fall within short-term processes or objectives, basically because, vis-à-vis the private vehicle, we are faced with obvious limitations that have to do with the scarcity of rare land and key materials for their own production, as was said, as well as for their maintenance over time. And, therefore – and from there came the reflection that we did a few weeks ago on the gigafactory – it is obvious that we will not go to a sustainable model if the model that is being pursued is to replace private vehicles with electric vehicles, but, of course, we must go to a scenario where the reduction of the private vehicle, whether electric or combustion, is also taking place, and that, in that sense, we are moving towards an integral model change in which what progressively prevails is a model of public and shared alternative, as reflected in the first point of the transaction; hence we and we will finally vote in favour of the transactional initiative, because we believe that the substantial part of what should be the long-term objective in our country is incorporated in the first point, which is to arrive at a system of mobility in which collective and public transport prevails. And it is true that – and on that second point it is mentioned – we have to go progressively to achieve that goal, in turn, aiming at a reduction of the private vehicle, as far as combustion is concerned. And the only alternative to today's model we're in is electric batteries. But we believe – I say and insist – that this will not be the long-term solution, but basically a transitional element to the objective contained in point 1 of the transactional, which is that of collective and public mobility. And then, on the third point of the transactional, mention is made of certain specific initiatives, which, in principle, seem appropriate to us. These are examples that have already been developed in many cities and in many countries as well, although it is true that there is a certain contradiction in some parts, as a result of what I said about this initial reflection, and it is that, although the long-term objective is that of collective and public mobility, in transit we have to go to the private combustion vehicle to switch to electricity. For example, in one of the points we talk about subsidizing the passage to the electric car, and, in turn, we say, in that third objective that arises in the transactional, we tend to less in the car center, that is, in the perception that the car has to be in the center of mobility. In any case, we believe it is a good agreement, in general terms. But we can't let go of what Mr Gil has also mentioned, and it seems important to us, and it is that – and we also said it in the debate on mobility a few weeks ago – we have to go to a much broader reflection of a transitional plan for the automotive sector, that is, that we believe that what was addressed in 2018, today, even though the objectives have not even been met... In addition, we believe that some of them are obsolete and that, in that sense, we should move towards a much broader process of reflection that would allow us, for example, to have this debate within the framework of the elaboration of this plan, and we believe that this debate should also be held within Parliament. In any case, we believe that this is good news, especially with regard to the first point – I say – because it marks the horizon that for our parliamentary group should be the fundamental objective, which is to reduce the mobility needs of people and goods and to move towards collective and public transport. And, in that regard, congratulations to Mr Casanova for having achieved this compromise, basically because, above all, the amendment to the initial whole of the groups supporting the Government did not look like the final result of this text. And, in that sense, well, then, we will vote in favour of the initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u84	Thank you, Mr. Soto. In answer, Mr. Casanova, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u85	From the end, we also thank Mr. Soto and his team for voting. And we also admit that the subject produces contradictions, this and many other topics. The question is, that there is no contradiction in these matters is complicated, because we have to balance very different things: employment, economic development, even environmental and so on. For us, the subject is not easy, but we believe that we have made a good deal in the right direction. And you'll forgive me, but I'll put back the dimensions of today's discussion. We're not here today to discuss the adaptation of our industry. We have asked twice to form a power in this legislature specificly, in the challenge of our industry, in the challenge of self-control. That's a discussion. an adaptation of industry. And it is another general discussion about tolerable movable. But that's not the discussion today either. Today's discussion: how to insert a bet for the electronization into a discussion of the tolerable mobileity which is more general. And that's today's contribution. And it's not small, it's not small, because a committee won't be formed, but the subject will be discussed. For if these consequences be introduced into the law, it will come to the legislature, and we shall have occasion to discuss them. We know the majority there is, and we know who's finally got the numbers to go ahead. But yet we think this dispute ought to be made public, and there is already a law and motion in those plans of law and motion to which commitment is sufficient. With regard to the People's Party, for – well, in your case, the representative of Citizens – you at one point had Macron as your reference. Then, they passed – it seems, from what he said today – they passed to Ayuso. Because that thing about me how nobody's gonna tell me how I have to move or where I take a pot, or... I don't know, the beers I take, right? Macron, Macron has said that certain routes, for example, are not going to be able to make by plane, because it is absolutely nonsense and a bad spending of unsustainable energy. And that's not imprisoning people or letting them move; it's applying rationality to mobility policies. At the moment, everyone is aware that the hypertrophy of global value chains has led us to Kafkian situations, such as that there is a pandemic and we do not have masks, or that a ship is passing through a canal, and a gentleman with a stick and a precarious contract has to untie it because, if not, the world is paralyzed. That's what we say when we talk about reducing mobility needs. And, as far as people are concerned, we're talking about making environments more friendly; we're talking about teleworking; we're talking about cities 15, where in 15 minutes you can move around and for that you don't need a car. That's what we're talking about when we talk about reducing the need for mobility, not that people don't let it move. And, of course, all this has to be done with political criteria, because if there is one..., there are many, but if there is a clear example of the empirical failure of market self-regulation, it is the issue of climate change, to which the supposedly self-regulated market has brought us, and, without very determined political decisions, then it would have led us to the destruction of the planet directly: to global warming, to the melting of poles... And still wait: we are trying to stop it, but probably some of the consequences are already irreversible in the automotive industry. It must be suggested to the electrician that he has been forced to strike the industry, and that certain rules have been established, and that certain limits have been placed around the fluids. So politics has something to say and politics has to say. And it's true he's got to bet and we're late. There, we showed the charts and we have a bad starting point. And it's true that Norway has been pushing the electric car for over ten years, but for ten years it's gone from %1 to 54%. And I want to thank the teams who support the government, their position would be impossible without their superiority, and I think it has been shown here, at least, as some say against EH Collector, that there is no locking strategy, because the lock is impossible, because the government has all the majority, and there is no strategy to deny it. What is here is the will about contact. Sometimes the will will will and the arrangement will will not be possible, but if, as a rule, the will is active, and it is exercised on both sides to do the approaches of contact, there will probably be more bargaining with us. Helburu ambisioso that of Europako mailekin parekatzea. Europe has said that it wants 30 million electric cars in 2030, which means one car for every 15 inhabitants. And that would mean 145,000 here. Currently some 30,000 are sold; before the crisis, 35-40,000. I don't think we have to try to get back to those parameters, but, in parameters of 30,000 cars a year, in ten years that we have left, to reach 145,000 is a lot, and that probably in 2030 puts us at 75% that we initially asked for. But it's more: I think that the fact that electric cars are going to be cheaper, probably from 2026-2027, that thermals are going to multiply exponentially, along with the development of other technologies, the extension of these, of this type of models, which we have to give an impetus in these first five years. And one last question. The postcards we bring, I understand that the PNV considers them to be the biggest contribution to climate change in this country. But I believe that, for example, the government's propaganda campaigns or the cars carried by the advisors, which, although hybrid, weigh two and a half tons, because, in terms of emissions, they are much more polluting than postcards, which most are recycled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u86	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Popular Group-Ciudados. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u87	Thank you, Madam President. We do not agree to demonize the use of the private car, not even the combustion car. That it is true that they have these drawbacks that you have mentioned: that they are expensive, that they are polluting, that they are dangerous, but they have made enormous progress, enormous progress, and they make life very easy for all of us. Let us not defend here the return, indeed, to those horse cars that you have shown in the photograph. And I take this opportunity to say that it seems somewhat irresponsible to me the proposal to interrupt any campaign of aid for the purchase of private vehicles using fossil fuels, because there are many self-employed workers and companies in Euskadi who still live thanks to combustion cars, which they need to work today and which cannot be allowed today to buy electric cars. Therefore, eliminating such aid would mean substantially making their work more difficult for them. That's why I'm glad that part of the transaction disappeared. Having said that, I would like to use this second intervention to explain our proposal. We believe that the development of the infrastructure network for charging the electric car throughout the territory must be strongly encouraged, and for this we must make strong investments by taking advantage of the Next Generation funds; that it is essential to encourage the deployment of the charging network on motorways and motorways of the Autonomous Community, and the promotion of the intelligent charging infrastructure of electric vehicles in the parking spaces of housing buildings; that we must continue to deepen initiatives to allow the renewal of the Community's car fleet, such as the Renove plan, allowing the replacement of old vehicles by other less polluting vehicles, but not excluding diesel and petrol vehicles – that is, to encourage is not to exclude others – that we must carry out an assessment of the objectives defined in the previous Integral Plan of Electric Mobility and see whether or not they have been fulfilled, and update this plan, as we have already said, by 2030, by defining concrete objectives, action plans, budgetary allocations and implementation dates, and by presenting it to Parliament for debate and subsequent approval. Because this transaction that you bring us here today has no concrete commitment. It is a set of good intentions, but it remains in nothing; that is, in the end there are neither figures nor dates nor nothing at all. So, of course, I fear that... I mean, I don't know if, as a result of the transaction, the government is going to change something of the policy it has had so far and that, in fact, it has led us to a situation in which we are getting worse, increasingly behind the rest of the autonomous communities and the rest of Europe. That is to say, in the light of the data, it is essential that there be a determined bet, that we step up investment in this area in order to reduce the distance between the autonomous communities and the rest of the European countries. And, while it is very good for the Government to appeal to changes in citizens' habits, to see if it will now be their fault; let us not forget that the capacity and responsibility for making policies and investments, the capacity and responsibility for doing and not doing is the responsibility of the Government. And, in this sense, on this subject, we do miss a clear leadership and a determined bet, which we have to say for the moment that we are not seeing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u88	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Basque Socialists. Your word is yours, Mr. Donalza.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u89	Yeah. Thank you, ma'am. Labur-laburrean. By replying to Mr Gil Vegas, who in his first speech, in some way, has questioned or said that we want to restrict freedom of movement to people or impose a series of premises for their mobility. Nothing further. We are no one to tell anyone how to move and what alternatives you can have to move. Our option, logically, is that these alternatives are efficient, sustainable, and that public transport can offer them alternatives that are efficient enough to be attractive and sustainable enough to prevent the use of the private vehicle to a greater extent. Therefore, more efficiency in public transport and, above all, a bet that public transport and any means of transport, including private vehicles, are based on the use of renewable energy. Y, para terminar, I thank EH Collector, I believe that the Social Party, as well as the Eternians and EH Collectors, have had the will to come to an agreement from the first moment. That makes it easy. And I congratulate you. As I have said before, it is essential for us to go together in such matters, and, if possible, to obtain the greatest protection. So, congratulations and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u90	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Yes, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u91	Yeah. From there, with your permission, Chief of Parliament. To answer to Mr Gil too. I don't know if you haven't heard my first speech. I have said that there are two aspects to this issue: one is the institutional part, and the other is the individual part; and I believe that individual commitment is very important. Casanova jauna, a small granite of sand on each side is a big step on this issue; I think it is not to despise it. As I said before, the first steps are taken, and we are even looking into the future. In the European funding projects, even the euds and euskal corporations are working on the Eukozoa to promote patient mobileism. We all want nicer cities, and we think it's possible, that it's no utopia. We only have to look at our capitals to see how pedestrian spaces are gained, whether public transport is used or bicycle use is fired. They are alternative means of transport to the private vehicle that reduce pollution and improve our well-being, and they want to stop car centering. We have very good allies in Euskadi to be able to carry this transformation forward. And something very important: we have administrations and a business fabric that are very committed to everything that involves green mobility, sustainable mobility. And, to finish, I'd like to welcome EH Collect to the electric phone. We believe in this medium that the coalition reveals its wager for all electrical transports, which is always a happy news, because I'd like to remember that the train of high speed and the Sanstian Topo are also electrical transports. Actually, today's announcement seems to me a happy news.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Together, Poedemus, no. End of discussion, we'll vote for EH, the Euskal Socialists, and the Middle Amendments signed by the Eucalists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the parties are 42; the votes given, 75; the supporters are 68; the opponents are 7; the abstentions, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u93	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Five point in theme list: "The Moment, the Muriel Larre Laso Euscala Popular, the parliamentary members of the Ciudadans, the Donostisite-Vidasoa of the Lower Land Parcia. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Miss Larrea, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u94	Good morning. A week ago we were talking about this. Today we bring a motion to this House, because Passages is the city that holds the second port of Euskadi, after Bilbao, of national interest. It is also of great importance in the transport of vehicles: the car factories located in the interior, such as Mercedes de Vitoria or Volkswagen de Pamplona, use the port of Gipuzcoano to give way to its production. To this end, facilities are available for the storage of vehicles in the city. But the case that brings us here today is the difficulty of expansion that the Pasaia neighbours have, at the height of the train station of the former National 1 – now called GI-636 – and the port. Faced with so many installations of national interest in such a small space, there is very little or nothing left for the neighbours. Passes came to have 21,000 inhabitants; now it has the same ones as in 1950: about 15,000 inhabitants. And there will be many reasons, but when others grow up, Passages decays. And it will not be a fair reading for the city if we do it strictly in this concept, but it would greatly help to have an expansion zone according to the times that run, in which special attention is given to the quality of life of citizens: parks, green areas, areas to exercise, without having to take the car to get there. It's about making quality of life. Pasitatras have the opportunity to recover land from Adif for their use and enjoyment. From this goes the motion that we present today: from the citizens of Pasaia, from the children of the street Lezo, which is right behind the GI-636, so that they can learn to ride a bike next to a nearby square, like the rest of the children of Gipuzcoans, without having the danger of having the national, the train and the port just leave home. And this has a difficult fit for pedestrians, bikes... because, between bikes, cars, trains, so, the situation is very complicated to have a quality of life, to have those friendly cities that are so much prodigy nowadays. Look, I'm gonna show you some pictures. I already did it last time. These are the houses. And here we have the GI-636, the old National 1, and the track beach. See how little space the bike lane has, pedestrians... Well, they all pile up here. It's not something hidden. It is a city that has great value for its strategic location. However, it is also true that we have to make cities friendly, so that people can develop their lives with the quality and standards that are required today and that we ask for today. And it is that the PTP of the year 2016, Donostialdea-Bajo Bidasoa, contemplates an expansion at the point that I have just taught you. I said it last week. At this point it contemplates an expansion, diminishing the beach of tracks and generating a space of relief for the neighbors. And what is pressing us today is the need not to mortgage the life of the passer-by for more than seven years. We want... And seven years is because it's the deadline that is supposed to be processed or completed what is the Astigarraga-Gaintxurizketa bypass, which we talked about so much last week. We want us to come out of this debate today saying that we have done everything possible to ensure that the city of Passages has a quality future for its neighbours. And I'm talking about quality of life because quality of life is very important. The fear they have – and the neighbours have brought it to us – is that the planned investment of remodeling of the train station will be made, such as, in the location in which it is currently, and that three million euros will be spent on this adaptation, and others, which Mr. Counsellor explained last time, but that it will be assumed not to consider the realization of what the PTP asks, in its passage through the city of Passages, for having made an investment. To this day, it would be necessary to calibrate whether the station could be improved without having to remake it, bearing in mind that it is important for the train station, in the circumstances in which it is, to meet the necessary accessibility requirements and in accordance with what has to be met today. It would be a shame to miss this opportunity. And another thing I want to say is that when we work for the citizens, we work to give them a way out of their problems, and it is important that we agree. And today I have to say that, thanks to all the parties that have contacted me, we have made an amendment, we have reached an agreement, a compromise amendment that can be voted on by all the parties, in which I have taken into account all the proposed amendments, all the amendments that have proposed to me, in order to make a transaction that could be in accordance with the requirements that we all parties had, that we should not forget that they are the requirements of the neighbours of Passages. I have to say that the most important thing anyone can do in politics is to listen to the feelings of the citizens. And at this point, when you see the situation, you walk through Passages, you take the bike and you go through that national, that old National 1, I have to say that your claim is normal. And I understand that, at this moment in time when you see that you can escape the possibility of having an expansion in that depressed area, be afraid and let us convey your fear that we may mortgage your life at 30 or 40 years, once the investment has been made. And this is what we cannot allow, because a person's life expectancy is about 72 years, more or less – it differs between men and women – but what we have to do is that they have that quality of life, that they don't have to take the car, that when they are older they can walk through their cities, near home. I've shown you the picture before: it's that the houses are at the foot of the tracks, the houses are at the foot of the tracks. This is not a quality of life, and this is what the passerines ask of us: they want to regain the space to live the city. And we have an obligation to combine, within our competence, within the competence of the Basque Government... And there is a moral obligation to agree, to coordinate with all the competent administrations – such as the City of Pasaia, the Provincial Council of Gipuzkoa, the Basque Government –, to talk to Adif and tell them: please, let's go to work, let's try to find an option, let's try to depopulate those roads, let's depopulate that road zone, perhaps taking the train parking – now, right now, exactly at this moment, you can't take Irun, as you were before, because of the work being done for the TAV – but you can take Lezo, you can contemplate other kind of situations that make the city of Passajes a much nicer city than it is now. We have a chance. This is the compromise we have reached with the PNV and the Socialist Party: it is about providing solutions and quality of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u96	Good noon, everyone. Well, we can see the proposition that's been introduced to the motion. That's right, we think we need to do a reminder, and this is the request that has been made by a popular platform in Pasadena. And I think it's legal to confess that. Partners, and the day before, the day of the introductory, and even today... At least today, he doesn't even mention it, and the day before he's over a lot, and he doesn't even mention it in writing and motion. And this is what I'm saying about the interpenetration and motion of the Popular Party, when we were looking at the Middle-earth Parcia for five years. To us, he has come to all the groups and brought us this folder, and this is why we all have the little green folder, the inclusosus, the pictures which have just been shown. And I think it's justice to acknowledge the work of the town platform for the new station in Pasadena. This platform was founded in 2019, because its neighborhoods had long known that Pastai was deeply infected by the railway wreckage of the Anchovy, was highly infested from Adifen, and that when they saw that Adidaf would build three million dollars' investment to rebuild the station, well, they had crossed the data or ideas and realized that the moment was the moment to ask for a re-establishment of that railway station, so that Anchovy would win space. And in September, they started picking up some signatures in September 2019. In a few days almost 900 signatures were obtained for this project. The project, as I have said, is very simple: To take advantage that the railway station is to be rebuilt for two or three railway lines, so that the avenues of Navarre to make it wide, to make Anchok wide, and thus to win the quality of life by the footpaths and riders of Anchoko. A number of proposals for railway underground are often criticized. It is often said that the cost they have compared to their social benefit sometimes is worth it, sometimes not. I think that we will talk about the Bilbao and Gasteiz undergrounds later, but, in this case, what is proposed here has nothing to do with that; it is a much simpler proposal and we believe that absolutely logical, and it is that of taking advantage of the idea that Adif has to invest 3 million euros to rebuild the station that operates Renfe, which is of Adif, moving it several meters to the north, to the port, so that thus the Avenue of Navarra of Pasai Antxo can be widened and the antxotarras gain in quality of life, because the boulevarization of that space will allow partial pedestrianization and cycling use. In that sense, I said they got 900 signatures. And it must be said that in Anchon there are 5,000-5.200 people. So 20% of all the population voted for it. I think it's a very significant sum. And it must be remembered, if I am not mistaken, that the motion was brought to the town council, in order to defend that project. And in the council, he tried it unanimously. All the parties at the Town Hall voted in favor of the proposal, which PSE, EAJ, and the power of Duguk, voted in favor of the Council. And there were three things asking for proposals: The council's leadership of this project; the second point was to create a table between institutions, because they are either affected in it or involved in the Adiaf, port, there can also be the Aldudia, and, of course, the mad and the City Hall itself; and the third point was to have the citizens informed. And in this sense the correction we have made, the corrections of the EH Collectors, the corrections of the whole, received those ideas, because we believe that the original motion, the member of the Potular Party, was a little too far off. First of all, he put the focus on the Parzian Plan Land. And we think it's a good thing to say in the Parcia of the Land Plan. It's very good for this project. It strengthens the project. But we believe that the focus should have been placed in the project, and not so much in the Parkland as in those parts of the country, which gave them rather curious ideas in their time. I don't think it's the moment to remember, but, well, there are 15 partial plots of territory, and, for example, some things about the central Araba, which are quite curious to see the views of today. Then we think the focus shouldn't be put there, on one side. On the other hand, we believe that this unanimous agreement of the council was to be given importance in the proposal. And thirdly, I think it made a mistake in the proposition, because he said it was time to postpone it until the whole of the Pasaia plan was fully reviewed. And we believe that this would delay this project a great deal, and that it is not necessary; we think it possible to carry it forward by a punctual change in the general plan. So, what you decide here today is, we think that the ball is on the roof of the Adifs, because it belongs to the railway and the station. And at least we'll try to work on EH Collect to keep this project going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u97	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. We represent the Podemos-IU team together. Mr Martínnezion.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u98	Yes, thank you. Good evening. This point, which is discussed, is not easy to solve; but before anything, what we must consider is the welfare of the passers, the best choices in the eyes of the future. First, I should like to begin with a confession, as has been done before, the people of Pastia, and especially of the platform, for a better use of the Adiphs, but also for the struggle for the use of the land of the harbour, both of this platform and of those of the people who have been engaged in these struggles for years and years throughout the country. A recognition to many and many Pasaia women, who have been fighting for years for a better integration of all the activities and uses of the existing soils in Pasaia, both those related to Adif and those related to the port itself, with a goal, moreover, very clear, in a dense village and with a lot of occupied land for economic activities; with a very clear objective, that is to improve the quality of life in Pasaia, improve the green areas, accessibility, mobility... In short, what has been said: to improve the life of the pasties. It is not an easy subject, even if it can be presented like this. It is a very complex subject, but it is not impossible to achieve what is being asked in this proposal. And that is why the original proposal seemed relevant to us, although we had deeper views – perhaps, in our opinion – on the subject; that is why we tabled that amendment. And we thought we could come to an agreement. An agreement has been reached that we, although we will support it, have not signed it, because we have had something short for what we could achieve. Because it has not been agreed to do what the platform is asking for, but a few small steps, which are not bad, but which are short. In Pasaia we find ourselves – already explained, but I repeat – with a beach of tracks, in Pasai Antxo, prepared surely for moments of greater use, for a moment before our present day. And it is going to proceed, the process of renewing the station itself is going on. For example, Mr Fernandez de Betoño mentioned the motion approved at the City Hall, but the members of the municipal government team themselves also pointed out in that motion that this was impepinable, the realization of the station. And we agree that the station needs to be renewed, especially in terms of accessibility. In addition, on that track beach, but also elsewhere in Pasaia and Pasaia Bay, the PTP recommends winning those meters for citizenship, winning those meters for public use and social use. And also, in the last parliamentary term, this Parliament itself, in the recommendations adopted in the presentation for the reactivation of Oarsoaldea, also referred to the use of soils. And, in the regional strategic plan, the revitalization of the uses – if you can use this word – of the wasteland of Pasaia is also noted. We know that the uses of this stretch and the beach of tracks will change in a not excessively long period in historical terms, which is between six and seven years, when the new variant is in service, so the traffic that currently passes through Pasaia will also be modified. That is why we thought it was a good time to, beyond waiting for what has been proposed since Adif and waiting for that to happen, to think about what we are doing in Pasaia: therefore, to urge both Adif and the Basque Government, the Diputation and the Town Hall of Pasaia to dialogue and agree on a solution so that the maximum possible space can be freed in the area of the present station. This is put too generically into the transaction that has been reached, which we will – I insist – support, but we thought we could set the goal, which I think we can share all the groups, in freeing up space in Pasaia, as all the reports and proposals I have pointed out above also recommend; and, moreover, that the remodeling of the Renfe station take into account these circumstances when doing the works. We ask to plan and coordinate. As always, public money will be used to rehabilitate the station. And, therefore, we are asking that we go ahead and anticipate that, if the use of these pathways is to be changed, then, well, that we go ahead and plan what the future of that area is going to be, which for many people will be a long time. But the real thing... Because we cannot go with this agreement to tell the citizens of Pasaia that tomorrow the track beach is going to change, that I think it has been perhaps a bit triumphant when it comes to selling the agreement, and it is not that I now have to come up with the cold water jar, but I believe that we must therefore, precisely, lay the foundations, plan and coordinate so that, when the situation is that the goods traffic is diverted, we do not have to wait any longer, but that it can be carried out in the shortest possible time. And then we have introduced – perhaps it is an additional debate – an issue that is already approved in this Parliament, but which, well, the problems with the port continue, and it is that, in addition to these lands that we are talking about in this initiative, all the lands that have been planned for a long time now to be made available to the City of Pasaia to be put once and for all in order to be able to develop the plans of the municipality. The people of the pass have been waiting a long time for the land in the village to return to the village, so that the integration of all existing activity can be more supportable. As I said earlier, well, we will vote in favour of the initiative, which, as I said, I think we could have gone a little further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u99	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, congressmans, good noon to all. Today we are discussing a motion concerning the PTP, Partial Territorial Plan, of Donostialdea-Bajo Bidasoa. And, on the motion, I will deny the major, Mrs Larrea, that the government's response, the Arriola's response was insufficient. The answer was more than sufficient and adequate. I am not going to reproduce what he said, but I would like to make some reference to some of the issues that came out. And it was sharp in his response to the insinuations of the non-implementation of the PTP of Pasaia, and he said that "Neither is being manipulated to prevent the development of the PTP nor is the plan being breached by any entity or organization." And this answer cannot be clearer and sharper, and my group and I stayed with her. No one's against the project. Everything that implies creating new spaces or larger areas of leisure for citizens must be well valued by any administration. That is what all the administrations involved value, and that is what the Government endorses. In fact, it is the Basque Government that has passed the decree that includes it as a generic declaration for this space, and the Basque Socialist parliamentary group supports it. This project is not discussed by anyone, and it will be done. However, the achievement of this objective cannot and must not mortgage actions that are not incompatible in time or with the spirit emanating from the PTP, so it cannot be said that not to works proposed by Adif, which, as the adviser pointed out, consist, fundamentally – and I would like to repeat them so that we know what the magnitude of these works is – in improving the accessibility and safety of the current Pasaia station; building a lower step between platforms, which will provide lifts and eliminate the crossing of passengers at the level of the track; replacing the old passenger building with a new one that will resolve the existing gap between access and the platforms; and also renewing passenger protection marks. It is, in short, works of adaptation of a space that provides an essential public service to the current needs, a work that, as I said, should not be disregarded, because that work represents a clear improvement in the quality and conditions of the service offered by the railway operator and because we are talking about a network of general interest. And I insist that these works must be done, because they are good for Pasaia and for all the citizens and because this is the urgent thing, Mrs Larrea. It is a question of renewing a station which is in a deplorable state and which does not comply with the accessibility legislation, because this will prevent possible accidents, since, at this time, moving from one platform to another requires crossing the tracks. In short, these works are taking precedence and defending the general interest. And I must also refer to the government agreement between my party, the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra, and the Basque Nationalist Party, which has then been transferred to the government programme for this twelfth parliamentary term, with the bet on infrastructure and sustainable transport. Railway infrastructure is of vital importance to the municipality of Pasaia. And this legislature, with Councillor Arriola at the front, is experiencing a strong momentum that will lead to an improvement in the living conditions of its citizens in the coming years. Quality of life and solutions. Actions carried out in line with what the PTP of Donostialdea-Bajo Bidasoa proposes in railway matters, within the framework of the Basque competition. Last April the construction of the railway variant of the Topo between Altza and Galtzarabora, a sleeping project that has been rescued by this legislature and that will allow to increase the frequencies of the trains, have been put to tender. The new variant will have a very positive impact on the urban route of Pasaia with the creation of a new underground station. And to this must be added the decrease of the noise nuisances that the underground of the passenger trains will suppose for the neighbors who live near the track. The award of this work will take place, if all goes well, throughout the month of July, so that it can start in autumn. Thus, they plan to bid this year a study of alternatives to analyze viable options to build a Euskotren road between Herrera and Gaintxurizketa, which would allow to find a solution to the transport of goods in its passage through Antxo. They are also working on the definition of the Lezo intermodal platform and the design of penetration of a network in metric width to the Port of Pasaia. The councillor explained the reasons that prevent Adif from removing in the short term a part of the railway beach of the station, and are that the future of the Pasaia railway beach is linked to the connection of the high speed for goods through the branch Astigarraga-Lezo-Gaintxurizketa. In the visit that the Commission of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transports we carried out last Friday to the works in the new station of Atotxa, we had occasion to listen to the use of the beach of tracks as parking lot of goods and trains in order not to interfere in the railway traffic of the vicinity and that of the long route, and, moreover, the logistic connection of this beach of tracks to the harbour activity, that, today, passes through this station and that of Lezo-Renteria. And it is that, in the end, we are talking about a railway network of general interest. Also Adif will start in autumn the work for the railway connection between Lezo and the Port of Pasaia, which would allow the entry of longer trains in the town. Solutions and quality of life. But we are here to smooth out harshness, to approach positions and seek coincidences in order to try to reach agreements for the sake of the pasties and for the sake of the general interest. And that is expected of us and ourselves, who represent the citizens who voted for us, and I appreciate the efforts of all groups to reach an agreement. It has been possible with the group that has presented the motion, Popular Basque-Citizens, to whom we thank to seek the coincidences that have made possible the signing of a transactional together with Basque Nationalists and, of course, my group, the Basque Socialist Group. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u101	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Eubertarians. Mr. Landfield, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u102	Madame President, President, members of the legislature, good afternoon, now. Well, when I heard what everyone said, I don't know... To anyone who doesn't know him, Pasadena Ancho, especially as if he was a mole. And, well, I think Anchoi has places to be happy with development. The street itself has long been set for the passers-by, the Alameda herself, or the Marea Alta and what it is. Thus, though, like all nations, there is a good opportunity to develop and develop, I think that every one owes his own, and that the Anchovies have something to boast of. Several things have been mentioned. It is, I think, the people of this kind, especially at least, if there be any people involved in the abuses of general interest; the port of Navarre, which is now the avenue, the railway, the 1-National, and the 1-National-National-Natural, which is now the Avenue Navarre, and the Topoa itself. And this has at last had a remarkable relation, not only to the advantage which these sub-structions have brought, but to the improvement of cities, order, communication, and, no doubt, if we consider the language, it is connected with how this order is made, and where these sub-structions are. I think all these reasons are sufficient to bear these sub-frastructures over the years, and I think it is reasonable and respectful to be treated with such nations. For if any one has difficulties, if this development is difficult in some countries, with all the surrounding circumstances, patience, and other purposes which he is now pursuing, he is so just in such cases, that they are connected with this general internal structure of interest. We all want the growth of nations, and these developments of the people must be in a long period and in a short period. In 2016, even if the Parthian Plan Plan Plancia observes the length of the period, I believe that even in the short term, as has been said here, there is something to be done. Anyone who goes there can see how the station is. And especially if we do not make it easy, if we do not make its use easy, and put difficulties in many of the natives, and many of them, who go with children, have some inability, or grown men. And I think it's time for us to turn these obstacles into possibilities, and it's a possibility that we're going to do what's been said before and whether we're able to do our own safety and access and as fast as we can. Plan Parcia Plan is mentioned. It's the object of a Parthian planet to look at the length of a period. This was done in 2016, and, as in many other countries, I think it is a tendency to present presence to the pedestrians in all countries, to put obstacles to the car or to the vehicles, and to find the balance as convenient as possible. It is well known that the Parthian Plan Plan Plancials are not co-operative, and that this non-couptors ought not to be a hindrance, if the will which I have just mentioned is and we treat it with respect, to advance, perhaps, the objects which are easily cultivated in the sketch and in time. It is known that long periods are useless if you don't work for a short time. And if the Land Plan Parcia is long-term, that also takes short deadlines. And the short term, we think, is proper, if we put the oxen in front of the cart in that short period, and give them names and surnames to that sketch; that is to say, an analysis, a serious, what it means, because, as I have said before, a people with so many sub-structures must have a good priority. And, for the first time, to get the priorities right, the projects must be carefully worked and put to that project both in time and cost in money. I believe that these works must be long cultivated in time, and are not made to be adapted from one day to another. This first step, I think, is very proper, by putting those names in mind. And later on, there will be Lezo-Wheelings and co-ordinations to be made. That's going to get some hell of a job, too. And, as I say, it is not from one day to another, but this step seems to us to be done by degrees and without interruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u103	Thank you, Mr. Underground. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Myst. [[Pause]] We'll take the answers turn. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u104	Look, I'm going to leave today with the satisfaction of being able to tell those who are part of the Pasai Antxo New Train Station platform... I must admit that it is true that the initiative of my inquiry, as well as today's motion, is given by them. They approached all the groups in this Parliament, and they sent us their concerns. The biggest concern they had was that the remodeling of the station, as it was today for an announcement that had been given in the press with 3 million euros, could mortgage the expansion or boulevard of that area of Pasai Antxo. What we can tell you is that we are going to transfer, through this transaction, to Adif to do an analysis of the PTP in that area so that that piece of work will be a nicer Pasai Antxo city. Pasai Antxo is a beautiful city, which, when we can walk through it, through the expansion areas it already has, is a city – which I, at least, love to go to – is a city to recommend. Not only is Pasai Antxo, but it's San Pedro; that is, there are lots of areas to visit, and it's beautiful. But the issue that brings us into question today is that some neighbors had felt helpless because they felt that their claims had not been taken into account, that they had obtained 20% of the signatures so that in Pasaia a boulevard would be made in order to be able to live the city in a more friendly way. And today I can say that we have managed to get all the groups that make up this Parliament to support an initiative that is going to improve the life of women passers-by in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Yeah? Do you have to take your word? Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u106	Yeah. Hello again. Well, I'm glad, in a way, because I think the middle way we've made is good. I'm glad to see how surprised I was to see the correction of EAJ and PSE, because I heard the words of the President of the Arriolas, I had the feeling that he was doing more than a defense of Adiaf, and a defense of the interests of the Adiaphs seemed to me to offend me, and on this side I was surprised. And I'm glad to try because this is what I'm going to do. At least get me the project and get me the Parcia Plan Land. And see if the project comes forward. And if EH Collecter thinks so well about the medium and the project, why isn't his signature in this agreement? Well, they didn't let us sign. This is where we vetoed. And I think it's strange, per se, that there should be a veto in the legislature, in the Basque Act, but in this case it's still more rare, because a party who has no representation in the passa has placed the largest vetato to the party with the majority of councilmen. And twice is odd, because the last two points in this middle line I've put into the negotiation myself, when I thought I'd still be able to sign. They're not exactly what I put them on, but they came from there. And so I think it's pretty accusing. And thank God you'll let us vote for it. And thanks to that, we vote for it. Last words for the city platform: I want to tell them this isn't a solution of the problem, but it's a step, and I encourage them. We think there's an historic debt to Ancho. They have water there, but they can't enjoy it; at least they can discuss it on a broad avenue of Navarre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u107	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Together Podemos... He mustn't speak. Basque Socialists. Mrs. San José, right there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u108	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. By focusing the debate a little bit, we are talking about a partial territorial plan; we are talking about the general urban planning plan, in principle, is in the process of participating in the elaboration of the progress of that plan and, together with that, all the railway actions in order to be able to act in line with the generic part-territorial plan. It's hard to quantify in years, because I actually think we all agree here on the same thing, on the fat thing, but the issue is how many years, isn't it? There are previous issues, and in the meantime, what we were trying to show is that the station is providing a deficit service, with investment needs in accessibility and adaptation. And it must be made clear that they are not incompatible, but quite the contrary, the execution of the works planned by Adif for the improvement of the station of Pasai Antxo and the willingness to work for the improvement and incorporation of new spaces for the municipality. And I do want to make it clear that this is the will of the Department of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport, and they will continue to work on it, and our group, Basque Socialists, supporting it. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u109	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote for the Middle Amendment signed by the Basque Populora-Ciudadans, Basque Socialists and Eubertarians. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 41; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 74; the contrary, 0; abstaining, 0; white, 0; 0; 0; 0,0; 0,0; 0,0,0; white.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-10.u110	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was three o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-two.
