ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u0	Good morning, everyone. [[Berber]] Good morning. We'll start the whole meeting. Silence. Let me inform you that the fourteenth point has been left for another. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, "The Unuseal Governments of the Eurjalbis of the Eubertarians made to the Chief of Economics and Ogas, the Spanish Government of Spain, the "Basque Mobility of the South," the data system, and the answer given to the "Busque Advanced Therapies Projects." Mrs. Bergeralbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. Mr. Subaz, good morning. Today, at this meeting, we ask a question addressed to you by the Seasons of Euubertarians, about the "Hosucdi" and "Resilence" of the "Houses" and "Resilitates" of the three strategic projects presented to the Government of the State. As all the groups of this legislature reported to us, Nadia Calviño was asked to identify three strategic projects around the European funds. In answer to the request, Mr. President, on October 19, which has already passed, identified three euscal initiatives which transforms and encourages Miss Calviño's economic activity: The project in which the data system, the use of data as the creator of wealth, is converted into a series of values, and the third, by the advanced therapy which will make Bagsque Advanced Therapes, Euskitadi, the advanced health-pointed system reference. So, three strategic projects, an entire investment of 1,4 million euros, which are already defined by the country view, and already in the history of the Fiscan and Basque history, agree with the three elements of Eucataly intelligent specialization and the plan of reviving Spain. And, all this stuff, it's not a coincidence, it's a show of the great effort you've ever done during the production of the EuskANDE. And, well, in this perfect stage, and the importance of these three projects to make Eucobertaries, we would like to know our question, what reply the Spanish Government has given of those three strategic projects, which have been sent two months ago, will be a pointer to the opposition. And just thank you in advance for your explanations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u3	Mrs. President of the Parliament, Mr. President, Chiefs, members of the legislature, Mrs. Berrojalbbiz. Indeed, last October 19th the lehendakari transferred to the first Vice President of the Government of Spain, Nadia Calviño, three strategic projects of Euskadi in response to the written request that the Minister of Economy herself sent to all the presidents and presidents of autonomous communities. To this day, two months later, the lehendakari has received no reply, which, if I am sincere, does not seem to me welcome. Euskadi made a lot of effort to design the Nesquekadin Next program. On December 2020, we introduced the first version, and we updated it with May 2021, trying to adapt to the accounts we've known very carefully. But planning and investment programming is essential, both for public institutions and for the private sector. Basque Mobility, Ecosystem del Dato and Basque Advanced Therapies are three projects defined with country vision, inter-institutional, that integrate projects collected in Euskadi Next, consistent with the three areas of intelligent specialization of Euskadi, with the Spanish Recovery Plan, executable within the deadlines set by Europe and transformers of the Basque economy. It is urgent to know for which projects we will have European funds, because the Basque institutions will have to contribute their own resources in order to meet the financing needs that, depending on what is received, are necessary. I would like to make it clear that these funds are European funds, that is, that even if each Member State is the executing body before Europe, this should not imply that it is the decision-making body. In fact, the rules of the funds themselves state that regional governments will have to be consulted in the design of the measures. We consider it essential that the governance of European funds be much more participatory with us. I have been saying for over a year now that elements were being given that distorted the proper use of these resources, such as, for example, tightening implementation deadlines to 2023, when Europe allows implementation up to 2026. This very week we have witnessed that the Government of the State... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... tighten implementation deadlines to 2023 when Europe allows implementation up to 2026. This same week we have witnessed that the Government of the State has presented the PERTE of renewable energies, green hydrogen and storage, which, in passing, for Euskadi has an enormous relevance, with a deadline of execution until 2026. Correcting is wise and in this we are playing too much everyone. This year 21, the state management of European funds transferred to the autonomous communities has been sown with legal uncertainty and taxation. We have transferred this feeling to the most responsible for the design and management of the MRR. And we will continue to do so, in order to show you the dysfunctions that are taking place in this tearing up. We hope that our contributions, always on a constructive basis, will be taken into account and improved in the coming years. With regard to the part of the European funds managed directly by the State, that is where we understand that Euskadi has more room for manoeuvre. That's where our strategic projects have to stop. And that is where agility and flexibility must be the protagonists, with the focus placed on the economic transformation of our economy. Therefore, Mrs Berrojalbiz, you will see that this government is not entirely satisfied, but I do assure you that we will continue to work intensively, from all departments and institutions in Euskadi, to add to our own resources the greatest amount of resources from Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u4	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Second point on the subject list: "Ask me, Rebeka Ubera Aranzeta, members of the EH Collectal Committee, made to the head of the Medical Department for the safety of health." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u5	All of you. The health department, the D.H.C., isn't guaranteed to the public in time and time. That's objective data. To check the flow of the clinics, to delay the consultations, to close up the surgery, to pass a leak and one more for a consultation, that's what's happening. And that's failure. It's a failure. Who can say that's not a failure? Who? And that's not just the effect of panic. That's not just the effect of COVID-19. This is also the result of a definite management, the result of want of previation and planning, the result of the seasons' beauty. The foundation of all the evils we have is not the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Newly professional healths told me: "Rebeka, the easiest is the management of COVID-19. It's always the same. Sota, caballo, rey. Here the hardest is the management of everything else." We've had a chance to rearrange this two years ago, but we haven't reacted from shock. But strength has been made in more than in preventive measures. Everything was left in the vaccine basket a long time ago. Prebence measures have not been taken in closed spaces. They're not tracking equipment in time. And the villagers have installed tracker functions. To search through the protocols and procedures which are accepted, they are led not to collapse any more systems already connected than to eterate contagion. The PCR, instead of the vaccine equipment, has been charged with more primary attentions. And now it seems like we're going to focus everything on the covid passport. We don't want to lose hope either. And we want to think that everything is not lost. And although it is in the seventh wave, to begin with, though professional healths are weary, yet the managers of the Medical Department and Osapare are ready to listen a little, if they had the courage to decide prevention and structure measures, to throw out a hand and move the public health system among us all. So, Mrs. Apple, what about the Medical Department? What will he do in order not to violate the health of the people?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Ms. AppleDui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u7	Mr. President of the Parliament, Congressmen, good days all of you. I won't say that I'm surprised by your question, Mrs. Ubera. A few things already surprise me when I talk about pandemia. But now I don't know how the last two questions you've asked me can be united. I'm talking about your question. You asked me in the final control session if I thought you were right to face the pandemy strategy. And you said the words. The public health system must adapt itself to this new state. Besides paying attention to the public's global health, not only to the prevention of health, but to attend to the appearance of apparent infections, we must continue to watch the regeneration. That's what you said. Today, however, you asked me about the effects of health and health, which you have predicted to prevent the pandemy in your work as though it had not been pandemy. And since you said in your speech, they don't matter at all, because it's all "soul, caballo, rey" in your words. Look, the object of the measures we have taken is to protect the health and life of those who are now the most weak. To protect the lives of people who are brought to a hospital or to the ZIU. And at the same time, for other reasons, they must come to our service for the preservation of the health of persons, undergrowth, and human resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u9	To protect your health, to save your lives, Madame Cedui, you can't shut up your consultations. You have to be sure they need attention to the chronics. You need to open theofanos. It doesn't make any sense that private surgeons are open and... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... In order to save them, ma'am, consultations can't be closed. It doesn't make any sense that private surgeons are open and the public are closed. If the citizen doesn't see and appreciate his doctor, who knows what's urgent and what isn't urgent? It's the first time for attention, and not the time for weakening. That's why we've made an effort in the budget and we're still working in that direction. You need to change the management pattern. You have to put aside the old ways of working. What is not COVID-19 and COVID-19 must be handled as it should. But above all, it is necessary that every citizen and every individual should be supported in time and time. You have to open the doors to the members. We need a public leader. And we miss that leadership. It's more important than ever, a solid structure, a solid structure. We have to lift our head. We have to work together with experts and experts. And professional members of the class are willing to do that. But to this we must hear them; we must shake hands with them; we must lift up our heads; we must go out of the corner, boldly. We need courage, bold decisions, and, above all, preventive measures.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u11	We're in a new phase in the sixth wave. The system resists. But it's impossible to face this medical emergency without causing the entire health system. And you know that. Yes, get out of your corner. You know that. It's a powerful health system. Membership has a protocol for facing the pandemia. We've come into the third of the five scenes that can be in the ZIU today. And that has consequences, why not? It is true that in studying the development of the pandemese the operators continue to rise; today we have a new 508 case. We have 306 people who have come to the hospital and 99 KIUs. But do not forget, that in this pandemia, the Euskakia is one of the few seeds of death, and is one of the most tested communities. It is also measured in two following data: the effort and effect of our health and preventive services. Our priority now is to deal with COVID-19. Today we count 2,508 new infections, 306 people entered the plant and 99 in the ICUs of the hospitals of Osakidetza. That's the reality. And you know her. And you know that that has to have consequences. In this data Osakidetza moves to the third scenario of the five envisaged in the ICU Contingency Plan. But one thing I do want to make clear. Osakidetza will leave no one behind, no one. The priority, as you see, is the covid, but anyone who needs health care in Euskadi will have it. There's no doubt about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Ekain Rico, a member of the Basque Socialists, of the second vice presidents and the Chief of Staff and Epleguus, the project of the virtual office of the profession." Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. Mrs. Vicelehendakari. Last month the Lanbide Board of Directors, where all the social partners have seats, approved the Lanbide Hobetzen project, which you reported to this Parliament. This is another step in Lanbide's profound transformation process, which affects from its structures, its offices, through more than twenty new projects focused primarily on improving the employability of people with greater difficulties, such as young people, women, over 45 years of age or people with disabilities. To this is added a digitization process whose objective is to use artificial intelligence to connect the data of the needs of the workers with the offers that entrepreneurs have and the opportunities offered by the companies. This is an ambitious project, which is a driving force behind the Basque Employment Strategy 2030 itself, which this Parliament endorsed with a very large majority in May and in which we all participate by making our contributions as a process of a country pact for employment, for quality, inclusive and equal employment. One of the commitments for this coming year was the creation of a virtual office, which joins the 42 physical offices with which the Public Employment Service already has. And yesterday a public presentation of this new tool was made. And taking advantage of this, the Socialists understand that it is important for this Parliament to know how this project will be implemented, from the conviction that the objective is not just the management of Lanbide, but the transformation of our policies and the use of active employment policies as a lever in this transformation process to prevent any talent from escaping. In that regard, Mrs Vice-Lehendakari, we therefore ask you how Lanbide's virtual office is to be implemented.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u14	Thank you, Mr. Rico. To answer, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u15	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. President, chief officers, members of the legislature. Yes, Mr. Rico, we're in a new era. And we want to respond with a new proposalr. We don't just want it to be a more efficient profession, we want it to be an advance in the development of the Basque Public Administration. That's why we'll set this new office up. From a telematically possible relationship to an integral relationship, which connects all sorts of communication with people and corporations in an integrated way. The Basque Administration has no similar experience. That's why the power office will be born in January... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... In an integrated way. The Basque Administration has no similar experience. That's why virtual offices will be born in January, and will gradually grow up with those who use the virtual office. The first offer we shall make will be a orientation of what we know of, in relation to our own private institutions, from far away. And from that point on we'll integrate the profession's bag of service, including preparations and preparations. It's one more office, 43, who doesn't want to replace his previous relationship. That's what I mean. This will remain guaranteed in the 42 physical offices, but we open the opportunity to contact the profession in a digital manner to get to more people. In the year 2022 we will continue to maintain the 42 physical offices that Lanbide has, which bring it closer to the territory and to the people. But we are launching office 43, which is a virtual office, with a new experience centered on people and also on companies. And that virtual office 43, which begins its journey in January 2022, is going to build on the very experience we have with these users, because, in the end, the service has to remain people-centred. It is the first such experience in Basque public administrations. It is true that there is some similar experience in two other autonomous communities. But the important thing about this virtual office and what I did want to communicate to this Parliament is that it is not a telematic relationship, that that already exists in the Public Administration and of course, in Lanbide, through Lanbidenet, but that this office what it wants is to have an integral character, that is, that you in the virtual office can get to do all the processing and the offer of services you perform or receive in a physical office. Therefore, it would be, right now, the offer will start in a limited, prudent way, with orientation, and then also integrating everything that is on Lanbidenet through the new application that will be (...). For us, the center, as I was saying, is people and we're thinking about them. This new channel, in short, is a new channel for a new era. We are aware of the digital revolution we are experiencing, of the speed with which it is entering our daily lives and, therefore, this is a new channel, as I told you, for a new era, where technology is a means, but it is not an end in itself. And where we know and are aware of the importance of lifelong learning in the coming years. And that is why it is key that this virtual office continues to advance and offer new services to a Basque citizen of a country that wants to remain competitive and where people and human capital is key to the success of Euskadi and our companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the hatred of Mi is made by the members of the Society as well as by the members of the legislature of the Anicate, as to the present state of health." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u17	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, President. By the circumstances of the pandemia, you said last week that we were in front of a new tendency to a situation, and you hoped that the measures taken were sufficient. And I really wish it was, but you might say it's not happening that way. According to the data given by the medical Department and the Medical Department, we know that in the last 24 hours, 2.272 has been positive. It is the highest data as ever. The result rate is 1.042.42 in 14 days of 100,000 inhabitants. And this is also the highest hint since pandemia began. Even the number of those in the UZI is higher than the last. And Christmas is in front of us. And they're being undetectable despite the ration protocols and innovations and retrogrades, more than 73% of positives. So, if this were so, would you say that the measures taken so far are sufficient? Do you consider, Mr Lehendakari, Mr Urkullu, that the measures taken so far are sufficient to deal with the increase in contagion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u19	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. Every day we look at the pandema's development, Mrs. and this depends on the measures we take. We also examine the measures taken in other communities, and in other countries. And we follow the recommendations of health authorities. At the same time, the measures taken are placed within the limits of our jurisdictions, which are always adapted to the characters of each moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u21	It has been a year and nine months since the first state of alarm was decreed, and we can understand that, of course, in the face of a situation which is unpredictable, which is unknown and in which elements which are uncontrollable by the fact that it is not up to this Government to control, we believe that it is difficult to deal with this management and that even there can be mistakes on many occasions also of management. We understand. However, it is a little more difficult to understand and understand that, already in the sixth wave of the pandemic, the government is again caught with a changed foot and that we are moved this sense of improvisation in the measures, and that we have to read news like "Osakidetza suspends non-urgent follow-up consultations". "Osakidetza begins to suspend the health care workers' vacation due to increased pressure." "The overcrowded primary care in Euskadi." "Basque hospitals are asking for volunteers for the ICU, whose occupation has risen by 30% in a week." How long do we have to read these things? We know, and you know... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ...volunteers for the ICU whose occupation has risen by 30% in a week. How long do we have to read these things? We know and we know that our first attention is tense a long time ago. And on November 25, the FSS union accused him of two weeks' delay. On December 7th, the Chief of Apples gave up all the remaining measures. And yesterday we read in the press that the UZI hospitals are asking for volunteers and volunteers to work in the UZI. One year and nine months, one year and nine months to learn lessons from this pandemic. And you know, we know perfectly well that when the incidence rises, hospital income increases, even if to a lesser extent, thanks to vaccination. Not having the health system properly prepared for what is no longer an eventuality, we believe it is not a receipt. Nor is it acceptable to dismiss the proposal we were making to re-contract the 4,000 reinforcement health workers who had decided to dispense with them, because it seemed that the pandemic was returning. That is why I have to ask you, Lehendakari, to strengthen public health, not to delegate all responsibility to the citizenry and to assume its own, as the Basque Government. Tracking, effective ventilation, pedagogy, foresight, and, of course, care for those who care for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u23	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Mrs Gorrotxategi, in an exercise of honesty if we recognize that we are facing something unknown and unpredictable, should also lead to honestly recognizing that the foot changed yes we can or can catch with the foot changed. But you're picking everyone up with your foot changed, Mrs. Gorrotxategi. In any case, other measures can be taken. And, as I have said several times, they ought to be taken. But we have no direct right to take these decisions. As I requested other measures last year, I now require the Spanish Government as well as the European Union. Let me give you an example. I'm in favor of always using a mask, even outside. And that's what I mean from the first moment. But for that, the Spanish Government must change the Decree King of June 24th. We've asked him to do it over and over again, because he's also asking for the worldwide institutions of the present health. .). We'd like to have a clear message from you as long as you're members of the government. We've declared the health emergency. And we have a clear strategy: commitment and collective and individual co-responsibility. In the next few days, we will present a recommendation document of the medical instructions for Christmas. We will continue to make decisions, and to plan the measures, which continue to be alarming. We must remember the legal and legal boundaries by which we make decisions. An example, we have no legal coverage to reduce or limit the number of people who can join in the Christmas celebrations. And, anyway, we'll give a recommendation that will take the precise limit. Regarding what we do as a government, first, vaccination, extend the third dose and proceed to vaccination of children under 12 years of age as quickly as possible. We've expanded the vaccination teams. Second, look for the positives with more testing and tracking of cases and contacts. We have increased the number of points for diagnostic appointments and strengthened the teams for the conduct of tests. We've doubled the tracking network's equipment, Mrs. Gorrotxategi. Third, extend the covid certificate to all areas where possible and useful. This is a strategy to strengthen the effectiveness of vaccination. Fourthly, continue to insist, in the Inter-territorial Council, on the proposal to reinforce the obligation of the mask on the outside or the limitation of leisure in sporting events, as well as a guaranteed legislation. In any case, we appeal to the voluntary commitment to wearing masks always, both indoors and outdoors. Fifth, responsibility and prevention. We reiterate the call to avoid risky situations, such as celebrations between people from different family groups. We call for family celebrations to be reduced and limited, with a number of people and without changing their composition. These are the measures we are taking. We appear before this Parliament every week. Both the Health Adviser and the entire Government are going to look at what measures, for example, you might propose. It is in your power to propose further concrete measures. Do it. I just ask you, I just ask you to do it taking into account all the previous experience, the circumstances of every moment, all kinds of geographical, economic, social and emotional contexts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "The question is, as Charles Iturgaz Angulo, a member of the Basque Popular Groups of Ciudadans to the president, about his condition at the end of 2021." My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to ladies. Lehendakari jauna, egun on. The session ends in a few days and we will still dismiss 2021 with many open questions, as we have seen this week. The worst, the health situation, despite your euphoria to Mrs Gorrotxategi's question. But we all know that this week we have reached the highest rate of coronavirus infection in the entire pandemic. And we're heading back to the worst figures in all of Spain. We're on record. And we wonder why, why we live in this situation once in a while, especially so unfavorable here in Euskadi. As far as health is concerned, we are already faced with the postponement of non-urgent interventions. Coronavirus again harms attention to other pathologies. And in economic terms it has an impact (...) on multiple sectors, starting with hospitality, commerce or tourism. In other words, there is an urgent need to put in place genuine support mechanisms for those once again hit sectors. Measures, funds, aid that truly reach those who need it. However, by 2022 the parties that support you and will support your budgets will support Mr Sánchez's budget, that is, accounts that are contrary to the general interest, that increase the fiscal pressure and that are against recovery, as much as you claim that it is the best possible agreement. And in the same way as in a few... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... the general interest that increase the fiscal pressure and that rem against recovery, as much as you claim that it is the best possible agreement. And just as within a few days you will approve for Euskadi, (...) you, with your vote, will approve a budget that represents a loss of opportunity in the wake of the crisis and the creation of jobs. That is, accounts contrary to the interests of the Basques. Meanwhile, you, lehendakari, round Navarra, weaving expansionist projects or rethinking the future of Spain with Aragonese, that is, looking in Catalonia to bring positions between your new status and the independence referendum defended by the Generalitat, something that can only generate instability and added uncertainty. For all this, I ask you, lehendakari: how you value the situation of Euskadi before the end of 2021.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u26	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Iturgaiz, in this round, look, I announce that next day 29 I will hold a meeting in Ajuria-Enea with the president of the Junta de Castilla León, to sign with him a general protocol of collaboration between Euskadi and Castilla León. I believe that the General Assembly of Castile and Lion is chaired by the People's Party. All right. Dena den, euskal gizratearen..., may also have an expansionist ambition in that sense. I'll give you the opinion of the Basque Society itself to appreciate the present situation. Because of the financial situation, 77% says it's good or very good, 27% bad or very bad. 66% of the political situation is either good or very good, 28% bad or very bad. It's about the attention of the member, and 6% says it's good or very good, 7% bad or very bad. About the emotional situation, 88% says it's good or very good, 5% bad or very bad. We know well from the pandemia that life is not a good situation, Mr. Iturgaz. There are difficulties everywhere, and the unrest of society is intelligible. But these facts show that society is trying to maintain its position. "And when we know [it,] we also keep the people as elders and representatives. So, I'm making a new meeting call, Mr. Iturbá. It is clear that at the time of pandemy what society wills and demands, the positive and the constructive attitude prevails, as well as from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u29	And what I'm glad about, lehendakari, who talks to Mr.Mañueco, meets with Mr.Mañueco, president of the Board of Castile and Lion. In addition, I invite you; I invite you to expand your travel rounds, to look for references of effectiveness, prosperity, recovery, Make a travel round through Andalusia, through Madrid and Galicia, and meet with the presidents of the People's Party, because I am sure that you will bring more those meetings to the future of the Basques than your sharing with Catalan radicalism and with Mr Aragonese. That's what I'm convinced of. Despite his self-satisfaction with (...) by the way, the truth is that the future requires corrections, lehendakari. I know that for you it is more important to open pseudo-embassies in Japan and Korea than to improve primary care that is full of complaints and needs investment. Or I know that for you it is more important to open those pseudo-embassies in Japan and Korea than to give more help to hoteliers, traders and self-employed people in this land. And I think you need that money that stays here in Euskadi, that you don't leave for Asian lights, Mr. lehendakari. Therefore, I would also ask you, with all due respect, to think about the interest of the Basques, as I said before. And to make questions and change things, something will have to change. Also in healing, as I said before. Look, there aren't enough trackers, even if you say there are more trackers. Mrs Sagardui said today that we are at the third level of five. And the question we ask ourselves, and why at the moment the LABI does not act as if we are at level three out of five. Why, lehendakari? Therefore, I believe that something is failing, it is failing quite clearly, and you have to recognize it. Therefore, I believe you have to improve management. There's a lot of mismanagement...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u30	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Iturgaiz, in this round that you invite me to do, apart from the fact that you may have Euskadi's consideration or connotation of expansionism, I do not think you have mentioned Madrid. Is it for something? Did you mention it? In any case, I have no problem, nor do I share it with Galicia, Mr Iturgaiz, with Galicia, which is the axis of the Atlantic Arc of which I am also President, Mr Iturgaiz. At no time have I hidden the difficulties. There are many personal, family and social sufferings. I know them, I understand them, and I follow them firsthand. I have humbly acknowledged that we do not have absolute certainty and that we are guided by the analysis of daily information and scientific and health recommendations, seeking a balance that, while preserving public health, allows us to maintain social, cultural, economic or sports life. It is important for personal and collective well-being. The problems are immense, but the economic situation, for example, recovers and society recognizes it. This year we will grow 5.6% and 13,400 people will find a job. Next year we will grow 6.7% and 11,500 more people will have a job. The unemployment rate will be 9,2 % which was the target for the entire legislature. Therefore, Euskadi grows, creates employment. The problems, yes, are immense, but the institutional and political situation is stable. The government is accountable... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... Therefore, Euskadi grows, creates employment. The problems, yes, are immense, but the institutional and political situation is stable. The Government is holding public accounts and carrying out its programme. There is dialogue between political parties and institutional arrangements. There's no roller, for example. Almost half of the agreements, Mr Iturgaiz, as much as you draw another picture, almost half of the agreements in this House have been achieved with the participation of some opposition party, including yours, Mr Iturgaiz. Corruption or political rift is not among the concerns of Basque society. Look, this is the last full of control of the year, time to share a message of hope. We have the means, resources, and professionals to deal with the pandemic. I encourage you to share an attitude and message that brings hope to Basque citizens. We've exceeded five, the previous ones, and we're also going to get through this sixth wave. New year, new attitude, Mr. Iturgaiz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "I'm asking you, Madia Martín, Congressman from Misto, who's working for the president, and who's going to light up all the victims of the non-responsibility of the Euskalion." Martíne, ma'am, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr Urkullu, just over a month ago he announced in this same scenario that today he would proceed to hand over the first notebooks of memory and recognition to families of victims of still unresolved ETA crimes, of which intellectual, material or both authorship is unknown. You yourself explained to us that it is something similar to a folder with images and texts that collect all the information available about those attacks. According to his statements and other persons linked to his Government, with this initiative they seek the individual recognition of those victims who deserved a better response than they did in their day, an ethical and human recognition of the injustice they suffered. I'm not going to criticize the gesture. Obviously, everything that is done to minimize the impact of not knowing the names of the killers, whether they have paid or will pay for their crimes, is welcome. But I think it's short, because mourning depends very remarkably on knowing. Without knowing it is practically impossible to close wounds to the severity of those caused by ETA. That is why, Mr Lehendakari, I ask you: what steps does the Basque Government intend to take to clarify all outstanding ETA crimes?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u34	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Martinez. We are well aware that there is a high percentage of victims of terrorism who have not been redressed from the point of view of effective justice. We also know, and you should know, that for reasons of legality it is not in our hands to offer material justice to the victims. The reasons are diverse. In addition to the separation of powers according to the legal order, one important issue is the prescription of criminal responsibility. And we must also take into account the recognition or not of the accused. In any case, from the point of view of the right to the truth, we have the commitment and also the responsibility to enable victims to obtain all the information available, as well as a personal and human recognition of the injustice suffered. That's how we're doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u37	Mr. Lehendakari. Last-minute commitments will make it impossible for me to be present this afternoon in Bilbao at the event of the delivery of the first notebooks of memory and recognition. And I promise you, I'm very sorry. I would have very much liked to participate and represent Vox for responsibility and respect for the victims of terrorism, because whatever the gesture, I believe that the good people must embrace those who still suffer the unjust damage caused by the criminal gang. But I also perceive a certain propagandistic aroma in the act organized today in the initiative itself. I have the impression that these families need something more than a custom file. I do not imagine that these notebooks will alleviate the pain of what might have been a mismanagement of their specific cases, the result of losing hope that the culprits will pay for the damage caused. I believe that it is the responsibility of the administrations, of the different powers of the State to work for the clarification of these unresolved cases, not to cease in that endeavour. And I'm also going to refresh his memory. There's a certain number dance. The Ministry of the Interior itself is not clear whether ETA killed 829 or 843 people, to which it is also necessary to add 10 more for radicalism related to the criminal gang. In any case, and this is scandalous, the Victims of Terrorism Memorial claims that 40% of these cases remain unresolved. The culprits, the executioners have not been tried or convicted. The figure ranges from 311 to 378 unsolved crimes, in any case too many. And let's stop for a moment in the causes so that the situation is this. The situation of terror experienced in the Basque Country in the early years of democracy, isolation and pressure to which the State Security Forces and Bodies were subjected, the malfunctioning of judicial bodies, uninvestigated military political ETA crimes, lack of international cooperation, the death of unjudged ages, problems in converting information into evidence. As you will know, on November 10 I had close contact with ETA victims. Some of them doubly victimized because they do not know or believe that they came to know who gave the order to kill their grandfather, father, brother or son, because they find it very difficult to assume that they will not be sure that the killers pay for their crimes in prison. One of those victims was very clear about it. Starting from the human need to put the culprits in the face of their pain, he confessed that, in his opinion, he was his new ally, Mr. Otegi, the face of those culprits. His words recognizing ETA prisoners as his own, his justification for violence, his renunciation of delegitimizing the murderous activity of the criminal gang, his insistent victimization of the executioners make him guilty. And what about Mr. David Pla, whom we met with a hood on that table with the snake and the axe etarra. Have you put yourself in the place of the one wearing the heavy slab of an open case that promises never to close, Mr. lehendakari?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u38	Thank you, Martínez... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... That table with the snake and the hatchet. Have you put yourself in the place of the one wearing the heavy slab of an open case that promises never to close, Mr. lehendakari?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u39	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, in my first speech I referred to the fact that recognition by the accused must also be taken into account in order to clarify the facts. And now you mention precisely the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, international collaboration. Issues that are not a matter of this government or the competence of this government. With regard to the act of this afternoon and the handing over of the notebooks, look, our commitment to the victims and to the right to the truth of the victims does not begin with this initiative. He has always been present in our personal and institutional and political trajectory. Also in the government program has been since the first day. Almost eight years ago, on 4 March 2014, the Basque Government commissioned a report on unclarified terrorist attacks committed since 1960. Throughout these three legislatures, Mrs Martínez, in collaboration with the University of Deusto, we have produced numerous reports. Clarification report from the past. Thus, report on the injustice suffered by people threatened by ETA. One, report on the injustice suffered by the group of ertzainas and their families as a result of the threat of ETA. Two, ETA extortion and violence against the business world. Three, report on injustice suffered by councillors and councillors who suffered persecution violence. Four, we are also developing the Memory and Recognition Papers project. A monograph for the family of each victim of terrorism whose murder has not been sufficiently clarified. The preparation of these notebooks, Mrs Martínez, has been based on an information-gathering work carried out by the Association of Victims of Terrorism, Mrs Martínez, in agreement with the Basque Government. Each notebook is accompanied by an official accreditation by the Basque Government, which expressly reflects the injustice and nonsense of the suffering suffered by the victim's family. So far we have produced 86 notebooks, covering the period 1960-1979, before the deployment of the Ertzaintza. These notebooks will begin to be handed over to families this very afternoon, yes, in a solemn and emotional institutional act. Expression of our homage and ethical and human recognition to the injustice they suffered. This project, by the will and exclusive action of the Basque Government, will continue to proclaim that the violation of the right to life of each victim killed by ETA was an injustice that should never have occurred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "To ask the question, "My own Kortaja, made of Ibañez EH Collectors to the president, about entering the Council of Professional Administration." Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. President Urkullu, good morning. In the industrial and social Euskal, and precisely in the production and maintenance of high-quality employment, the contribution of euscal eoperats and, in general, of social economy and organizations and their importance is very important. We have seen several times that it is the reconnaissance of the generality among the groups of this legislature. And it's just the funk that she's accepted, that she's got that important contribution figured out. If so, how can the cooperatives be sold once more by refusing to join the Professional Administration Council on that frame of interview we've had on the budget?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Congressman Kortja. Profession Administration Council (... It's an organ. And, according to the established legislation, as you know, the most powerful members of the community take part in it. It is clear that the Confederations of the Basque Cosoperatives are social. And it is also evident that the three natures of the organ must be confirmed. So we have to change the Euscal jobs System Act Act to help us take part. As you know, our commitment is to accept this bill next year and send it to the legislature. At that moment, we'll have the opportunity to decide and direct the co-operative part of the co-operatives that we think would be fair. Another way may be to develop regulations in the development of the law of profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u46	Thank you. President Urcullu, look, we believe that the cooperation of the co-operatives is an anomaly, an anomaly. Economics and social economy, co-operatives, Professional Administration, which now attend the Council, are not understood except in the frame of submission to other servitudes. Without the representation of the social economy, without the co-operative, the Professional Administration Council does not represent the reality of this country's firm. and this is an anomaly and ought to be corrected. It's an anomaly that even your party has seen and reported. The PNV itself made this same request in 2010, and considered that cooperatives should be present at the Lanbide Board of Directors when designing employment policies. They then complained that it was a matter of political will, that cooperatives could be included in Lanbide if there was a political will. And that's right. It's a political act of will. It's just a political choice. And that's today, President Urkullu, what we want to ask you. It is true, as you say, that the laws of the administration ought to be changed in the administration of this Council to constitute co-operatives. That there are those possibilities you mentioned. But what we ask of you today is a commitment to direct that anomaly. What we are asking is to correct that anomaly and a commitment to lift the veto that cooperatives now have to be part of the Lanbide Board of Directors. We live in our own day. [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ...commitment to the lifting of the veto that cooperatives now have to be part of the Lanbide Board of Directors. At the period of great uncertainty and change in our present life, the direction of modification is the time to start to fix and move a direction. We've said that many times. And for this the political power must give a direction to economy and social development. And a public leader aimed at the active attitudes is needed in certain essentials. And in this it is said that it is as important to choose the companions we choose as to do. And that's what we're talking about, President Urkullu, the companions we're supposed to have on the way we're supposed to do it. And, Mr. Urkullu, the recovery of the economy, social employment, dignity of wages, equality, the romance of lands, social prosperity, social welfare, social justice, compeffitivity, neighbourhood and innovation, we are indispensable companions to build co-operatives and social economy. In a hundred economic and social Euskals, and precisely in the origin and maintenance of social employment, this weight of eusska cooperaves must be replaced in the profession. And you have a chance to start this anomaly today. Our choice will be clear. And in those options that will come, we will do the choice of these cooperatives in the profession...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u48	... Because they are indispensable companions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u49	Time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Madame Kortja's, I wonder if you didn't go far when you got the consequences of this last take. You're talking about committing. And I'm going to tell you frankly, the cooperatives and socially are very active, you know, all the protection and confessions of Euskaddin and AEskadin. He's a complete commitment to a cymbal model. Two weeks ago, for instance, the Congress of the world's Kooperatis was in Seoul, a part of our government, the second Vice President was present. Moreover, this International Congress marked the model of eu-operative eoperatis. At this moment, for example, we're working together to direct the formula that Koopratib will enable us to join the Basque Council of Hezik. Even in this parliament, Madame Kortja, we have often remarked the model of cooperative companies. Last of all, when we protected the model of the inclusive company with one mouth. And with that, on the 7th of the October past, we settled the Kooperatib law. We did that with the cooperation of the Kooperative Sector in response to their demand. The law was accepted, but not unanimously, Signora Kortha's. Not a single team protected the Cooperative Act. The Basque People collected. And we know the original which is to be adapted to the discussion of the intention of the law. Our desire, Mrs Kortajarena, is for the cooperative movement to be present in the institutions and bodies of a socio-economic nature with which we have in Euskadi. And we work for the assumption of differentiated legal natures in that participation, but with the same spirit of commitment. We highly appreciate the work of all social actors involved in social dialogue forums, not just the social economy. That is why I take this opportunity to appeal to your parliamentary group and to you, in particular, who is asking me to explicitly support the participation of all economic and social actors not only in Lanbide but in all existing forums. Social dialogue, for example, and consultation, sharing the same commitments, are the most effective, practical and productive way of influencing public employment policies, training policies, health policies or labour security policies, which you have also mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interpetration by the lawmate of the First Vice President and Warden of Security, the recent Euskal floods of the Basque Barrojal. " Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u52	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Good. Two questions we could ask Mr. Vice-Lehendakari, the Security Adviser, as responsible for the Special Emergency Plans, in relation to... issues related to what has happened in recent weeks in flood risk management. On the one hand, I think it is good to have an assessment of what has happened, a balance sheet of damage, and, on the other hand, something logical also, as to what measures the Basque Government intends to take in the wake of the serious floods that have taken place. All of society, all of us have been able to follow through the media and some of us physically seeing what, after the days of intense rains and snows, became a problematic, very problematic situation. It would also be interesting to know whether there was still a risk that such a situation would reoccur and how the Emergency Plan was working at this time. It is clear that, as in all other issues, the Basque Government and the institutions have a special flood risk emergency plan in the Basque Autonomous Community, east of 2015, where an analysis of flood risk management is carried out or where flood risk prediction systems or dam emergency plans are established. It is very important to know the situations experienced after the water spills. Or the municipal and outlying action plans which also converge with the action and the capacities and activity of the Basque Government or URA in relation to this issue. Also know that management of URA, of the Basque Water Agency. We have also seen that some localities, villages or neighborhoods of Vitoria have also criticized certain efforts made because around the floods produced. The intense constant rains for many days, the snows that have occurred these previous weeks have caused severe flooding and damage... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ...constant for many days, the snows that have occurred these past weeks have caused severe flooding and damage. In addition, in the three historical territories, in the three territories of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. They have been affected, we have seen it on a permanent basis, they have been affected by farms, livestock, roads and other communication infrastructures, some transport, businesses, shops as well as housing. With serious harm to tens of thousands of people. We have seen hospitals even isolated in relation to... as well as Mendaro's, who has also suffered from that isolation, that inability to attend to people as they should. We've seen wreckage, we've seen pollution of spaces, power cuts. Well, in fact, we've seen all that and we've been able to contemplate it. And it is time to analyse, it is time for the balance sheet of the damage, the assessment of the disaster, the measures to be taken by the administrations. I think it's very important. This is also the time, I suppose, for institutional collaboration, because there are things that remain to be done. We have seen the floods have shown that there are works that need to be addressed and that have not been addressed, and that there are certain delays. Therefore, inter-institutional collaboration with affected public entities is important. And that's what we need, what the government is worth right now, and what is being done. And above all, there are issues that have to do with the containment of the Zadorra River, which is on the table, which in some matters is an outstanding subject. It seems that some problems had been identified, but good. In short, how it goes, how it is being fulfilled, or how it has been fulfilled, or how the Special Emergency Plan is valued in relation to what has happened. There have been impressive reservoirs, which we have seen, just hours before the floods. Or, I don't know, there's questions on the street, there's questions in society saying if there was a risk, there was a forecast, you could have disembalmed. Well, it's technical and I'm not getting involved. So those elements will have to say it, but good. They are to bring some analysis, because we read in the press "Ullibarri's reservoir forms a great sea in northern Vitoria". Well, those issues they say could have been avoided, or not. These are issues that are on the street and we are logically echoing ourselves in order to know and know, first, that balance sheet, that assessment of the damage, and the measures that will be taken through this inquiry. We read "Alava faces the worst consequences of flooding in 18 years." Or... and in Gipuzkoa he said in ten years. The press said that the other day in its analysis of this subject. I mean, I mean the risk is there, it's been, is and will be. That is, I believe that action must be taken or learned, or lessons learned on how to continue to act in this situation. We have also seen the concern of the agricultural sector about what has happened to the land, which carries water, or the slopes of the rivers. With the possibility of the return of this situation, which drags the water and which affects and certainly deteriorates some of the crops, some of the issues. Well, there are a lot of questions that are put on the table. And, as I said before, they affect many areas of drive to housing or trade, industry, etc., etc. That's why our interpellation is there. We want to know what the Basque Government has in mind in relation to the measures to be taken to alleviate the consequences of the serious floods in the Basque Country in December. It is clear that there is also now, it is an important time for economic compensation, to know how it helps, how the Basque Government manages also what has to do with insurance, with the possibilities of helping businesses or those affected in relation to compensation and with insurance and processing, and to know when we are on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u53	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. Mr. Barrio, when I read the text written in your inquiry, I confess to you that I have come to mind that consideration of popular wisdom that recommends not to start the creed by Pontius Pilate. A reflection, I insist, that you, by the generation to which you belong, exactly as I can understand perfectly. I doubt that there are later generations who understand the scope and meaning, because if the creed is not known, it is not known to recite it, a conclusion can hardly be drawn in relation to this reflection. I see that this reflection that provoked me from the written reading of your inquiry has been markedly corrected in your intervention now, because I have seen that, in fact, you share with me the idea that repairs, recovery work, which needs to be addressed from the moment when a series of damage has been found after the floods that occurred the previous week, can only be fully and coherently analysed in the context, let us say, of the Basque System of Emergency Management and Civil Protection, from a comprehensive approach as a whole. For more than ten years now, the Basque Emergency and Civil Protection System has been fully integrated into the security system. This integration is probably prior to this, but a law passed by this Parliament in 2012, the Basque Country Security System Organization Act, already establishes this integration from an integral, holistic conception of public security, which does not circumscribe it, does not reduce it to the scope only of the police and citizen security, but considers that security is a much broader, much more comprehensive concept, which in some way covers all public measures to be taken to address certain risks and threats that affect the coexistence and well-being of citizens, which strictly transcends what is the meaning of publicity and citizen security. This has its very important consequences also in the area of emergency management and civil protection, because it means that... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ...citizen's safety. This has its very important consequences also in the area of emergency management and civil protection, because it means that this area, the emergency system, shares a number of principles with the security system that are fundamental, they are foundational. Among others, the principles of planning, prevention, intervention, recovery and evaluation are shared principles. And that in the field of security they were already known, which are reflected, in the Basque case, in the Basque General Public Security Plan, which was approved this same year by the Basque Government until 2025, and which I myself defended in the relevant committee of the House several months ago. Where the threats to or risks to Basque citizenship specifically related to natural phenomena and those uniquely related to adverse weather events, many of them related to climate change, are expressly envisaged, as we can see not only in the Basque Country but also in other territorial areas. These principles, which are fundamental pillars, mean that in the area of emergency management and civil protection there is a very intense planning activity. In fact, the law regulating emergency management in the Basque Country, the consolidated text of 2017, provides for a wide range of plans that affect the field of emergency management and civil protection. There are territorial plans and special plans. Territorial plans can be autonomous, can be outlawed or can be local, if any, on all three levels. And the special plans are those that have to do with specific problems and that require unique and own methodologies to deal with the risks it generates. In Euskadi, logically, we have a special plan – you have brought it here to the table – a special plan for the risk of flooding. It could not be otherwise in a country such as ours of precipitation and laughter, which are repeated with a certain frequency or with a certain periodicity over time. And all of us throughout our lives have been able to experience episodes of that nature of greater or lesser gravity. There are other territories, other areas in which other risks and threats are highlighted, but ours, for example, is not a volcanic country, it is not a country with at least seismic movements or earthquakes. But it is a country of precipitation and laughter, and that is why we have a specific plan, a special plan for that matter, which is of the year... starts to start in 1999. You cited the version of the year 2015. But I can assure you that it is very rigorously updated very often; this year an amendment to the Governing Council agreement to update the plan has been incorporated. In addition, it is not only updated, but also adapted to the requirements of the European Union, which has long required the public authorities of the European framework to draw up specific water management plans in the hydrological basins. Today, therefore, I think that is the first point to highlight. What can be said about special flood planning here in Euskadi? I think there are two fundamental keys. First, first, in Euskadi, the Special Plan of Risk against Floods is managed within the framework of an organizational idea in which prevention services, meteorological services are not only designed to anticipate the time for citizens to organize their leisure or leisure; they are meteorological services at the service of the Emergency and Civil Protection System, therefore designed to capture the data, to gather all the information and put it at the service of the Emergency and Civil Protection System. A very important concept that makes a difference in relation to other territorial areas in which this utility of the services of (prediction?) weather do not serve, are not used, are not optimized and take advantage of the Emergency and Civil Protection System. Not here, here is exactly the opposite. And second, I think it is very important that the coordination that is established at all times, above all, with the Agency for Water Management, URA, and with the rest of the public and private entities that deal with the management of water... Finally, water management and reservoir management. The Special Plan therefore rests on these two elements which guarantee, in some way, their proper functioning. Indeed, in the episode of rains that we have known between 24 November and 12 December we have had two particularly intense periods of precipitation that have also generated some brooks. Precipitation that has led to activations of the Special Plan, we have activated the Special Plan twice during the last four weeks. In the first case we activate the Special Plan in the state... during the alert phase. In the second we have reached the emergency phase, situation 2, which means a slightly higher level of gravity. The Advisory Council of the Special Plan, constituted as a crisis table, has worked with the presence of all (institutions?) which have something to say in this respect, with the contribution of all kinds of institutions and actors operating in this field. The assessment they have all made of the functioning of the system has been positive. Weather services have worked, made their predictions. Predictions have been put at the service of the system. They have also allowed URA to make its predictions, so that it could be located fairly precisely where flood problems could occur as a result of the geographical location that meteorological services were doing of what the precipitation was going to be in the coming hours. And the system of warnings, of alerts to citizens, to basic services of civil protection, to municipal services at all levels has worked very well. And this has been positively assessed, without prejudice of course to the overall assessment to be made later on in relation to this issue. But the assessment was essentially positive. And it has also been valued, among other things, not only the functioning of the alert and emergency system itself, but also the number of infrastructure works that have been carried out over the past few years by all actors who have some responsibility in this area. By autonomous powers, by URA, by the Hydrographic Confederation of the Ebro, by the deputies in the area that corresponds to them, establishing... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... by autonomous powers, by URA, by the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation, by the deputations in their area, establishing limits that contain the waters in areas where they usually overflow and establishing river channel extensions wherever necessary. The damage assessment is actually being done right now, and we are starting the recovery phase. A recovery phase where it is already anticipated that the responsibility and competence of the Department of Safety is, in principle, smaller than in other areas, i.e. that the Department of Safety is responsible for emergency management, is not solely responsible for the management of damage and for the specific recovery phase. Here we have a long history in the Government of recent years, which is, in principle, going to apply here. I'll explain it to you in the second part.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u55	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u56	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr Erkoreka. I knew the Creed, and I still know it, and the truth is that Pontius Pilate's is the part that I don't like the least, because he's a character that I don't like very much. That is, I know very well that the Creed begins with the "Believe in God, Father" and that is why I have made the interpellation, precisely to know, to know. I had no intention but to worry as a parliamentary opposition group about something that has been serious, and that has affected tens of thousands of Basques. And that's the point. That is why I do want to keep listening to you in the five minutes that you still have, because I believe there are outstanding issues. Indeed, I am asking you the question. It could have been done perhaps to other advisers in the area of agriculture or in the area of land management, but it is done to you because you are the one who handles this issue and you are vice-lehendakari and, logically, you will have all the coordinated information from the Government in that regard. And that is why I believe that there are still issues to be brought to this House in relation to the assessment of damage and what data the Basque Government has. I've also asked you a question about... right now. The insurance will have to work. And that if there is some kind of support for the people affected in relation to..., because many seek the assistance of the administrations of the Basque Government, or others, in relation to this issue and how they are helped. And also in relation to the plan, with the Emergency Plan, it is interesting that..., it is an issue that is constantly being updated, and whether it is necessary to review or strengthen or reform the Special Emergency Plan in the face of the risk of flooding in the Autonomous Community. We've seen that, because of what happened. Because, well, indeed, we do not have volcanoes, or we do not perceive the risk of earthquakes, but that of floods, and we have seen that it is very easy to cut off channels of communication. And that must be avoided. This the administrations have to avoid, logically, with a flood of these characteristics. That is why the measures will have to be taken. I am also sure that you, as a Government and as managers of the Special Plan, have suggestions to local or outlaw administrations. They have, because they will have seen dysfunctions in their municipal and outlaw plans in relation to the... There will be, we must ensure that we avoid these incidents. Also, for your part, you have been able to see that there are some actions that have not worked well and that, in that sense, it has also been noted, and we have seen, the need to carry out certain works in some of our towns and cities, which have not been done, which are still pending, knowing that there are risks. And in that regard, those are also the outstanding issues. A few months ago the director of URA himself said, at the beginning of the year, Mr Aiz said that the activities he manages the Zadorra basin should be integrated into AMVISA. Well, they're management elements. That hasn't happened yet. Or that pending proceedings in the Batán and Zapardiel rivers, in order to avoid proceedings, have not yet occurred, these works, due to administrative issues of the City Hall. Then, there are elements that draw our attention and I suppose they will be managed, coordinated, identified by the government to... And like this there are many other issues. The other day they were talking about in Irún, in the Behobia neighborhood, about some critical issues to things that should not occur because certain works or performances are pending. So there are elements that we do want to identify. That is to say, apart from this assessment of the damage and the action of the Basque Government at this time, for compensation, to help people recover, also that essential element of how it values and plans the fact that action on these issues must also be improved at the municipal and foral level, in coordination, of course, with the action of the Government. I believe that, in order to complete this plan, there is still a need for improvement in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u57	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u58	Mr. Barrio, you may have noticed that I have begun to appeal to the convenience of not starting the Creed for Pontius Pilate, but it is that my Creed had ended, just the time has run out for me when I was at Pontius Pilate. So, well, your second intervention forces me to take a little look back and recover part of the previous recital. Just two considerations. In line with what you were commenting here, the red dot map, from the point of view of adverse weather and uniquely from the point of view of floods, is quite consolidated. It's known, it's quite complete. A design also of the convenient and necessary works is not from now on. It has been done since 1983. That dramatic experience that we experience from floods, which started, from that moment on, started, let's say, a systematic dynamic of facing the floods through direct and structural means, which consist precisely in the realization of this... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... started, let us say, a systematic dynamic of coping with floods through direct and structural means, which consist, precisely, in the realization of this type of infrastructure works, in bridges, in pipelines, in streams of water and rivers, and of indirect and non-structural measures, which are those that have to do with planning, prevention and all this that I say to you. Therefore, many of them have been addressed. And, throughout the crisis, we have been able to see, indeed, that some floods that historically occurred in some places, on this occasion have not occurred thanks to works and identified URA, for example, which took place a year ago, two or three years ago. Therefore, this plan of works is constantly being updated, and is constantly being implemented. Some of them belong to the Basque Government. Others belong to other institutions, including the General Administration of the State. But this identification is reasonably well made, always adaptable, always improveable and always in period or in updating phase. Therefore, in that endeavour we will never cease. And that is a task that will never be completed, because probably the rainfall in Euskadi will continue to be important. And we will remain for a long time a country of precipitation and laughter, whether we like it or not. And that is why we are trying to avoid them, first of all, through such infrastructures, through such structural and direct measures, from there. Well, in relation to such situations, the Basque Government already has a certain trajectory by adopting exceptional measures that respond to these extraordinary situations generated by the floods. I'm going to cite two precedents, without leaving the flood range... If we were to get out of the flood zone, we could cite other cases. The Basque Government adopted decrees in 2008 and 2015 enabling such measures, which basically included aid, to be managed differently by different departments, but always inspired by two fundamental principles. You have referred to the issue of insurance. The principles which have inspired these aids are, firstly, complementarity and, secondly, compatibility. Complementarity with regard to the work that insurance companies can do in this regard, i.e. do not supplant or replace insurance companies and the Insurance Compensation Consortium in what they are responsible for and can do, and they are called and must do. And, therefore, complement that activity. At the same time, a declaration of the principle of compatibility that the aid granted or which the Basque Government may grant in this respect is compatible, for the same purpose, may be granted by other public administrations. In this regard, I can tell you that the aid package that was approved in 2015, which covered three areas of action, damage to homes, damage to economic sectors and damage to vehicles, one part, that of vehicles, was the responsibility of the Department of Safety. And in the Department of Security there was only one request, because everything else was covered by the Consortium or the insurance companies. There was only one claim for a vehicle for compensation of 2,500 euros, which was paid by the Department of Safety and Security. Okay, this is working. And now, to the extent that the situation and the assessment of damage advises a similar initiative, consideration is being given to doing so, but it is also logically expected that the central Government, which has first announced a package of measures in this regard, will draw up the scope and content of its measures. I exchanged a conversation yesterday with the Minister of the Interior, who told me that in the package of measures he plans to incorporate into the Council of Ministers in relation to the damage caused by the floods, Euskadi is included. He assured me that it was included in Euskadi. We are going to see exactly what is being proposed in this respect, how people who may be harmed in Euskadi can benefit from this type of aid and measures. And from there, on the basis of the assessment of the damage done and the contrast of information with the insurance companies and the Insurance Compensation Consortium, the possibility of enabling a mechanism similar to that made in 2008 or 2015, also in relation to floods, with similar or similar measures that were then raised, can not be ruled out, which will logically involve not my department, but several more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u59	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, Jule's Arzuga, the Member of the EH Collectors, the First Vice President, and Chief of Security, concerning the separation between the environments of Sepron and the borders of the border, and the distribution of the functions of the city." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u60	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. And good day to all. A short time ago, Mr. Erkoreká, the head of two banks occupied with the crime of environments took place here in the parliament, and we gave them some uneasiness. See if the Civil Guard invades the borders of the Borders that invade the Seprons. In fact, the two different collectives gave us that the Borders were not capable of performing, and that they preferred to appeal to Seprona, the two collective teams which were these collective to the Civil Guard, the movement of the people, and even the Ministry of the Common-wealth, and Mrs. You'll share this with me, Mr. Erkokák. It's serious. The leaders of Ála and Sanz had given us this answer. "The minutes of the Security Board last June 18th recall that, in relation to the investigation of illegal administrative offences related to the environment that took place in Euskadi, the jurisdiction will be vested in Ertzaintza." Anyone has this acta available except me. I asked you and you didn't give it to me. But the chief of the shore added: "Dede el me de junio a la actuad no habido nituación que suponga una want de restito del marco compencial de la borderination." And I want to ask you if you can confirm this statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u61	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Arzuga, (... I confirm what was said in the scene. That's right. Besides what you're saying, the agreement has other content. Acta, and they did it right, it's prosium. That doesn't mean that the agreement is worthless, that the agreement is agreed and agreed on because it's verbally connected with the Ministry. Acta has not yet been admitted, as it is logical, because the act is always in the next assembly. From this they themselves said what may be said at the moment: that we have no share in it which has since occurred. It is true, too, that the agreement is more perfect than that which was said in itself and here. That's more of a difference. That's not all he says... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... What has been said here and in itself constitutes more than the words you describe. For it introduces more shades; it does not merely say so. It confirms the principleal jurisdiction of the border in this respect, both in the crimes and in the justifications of the administration. But he confesses, that the Common-wealth, acknowledges within their reach the force of the Common-wealth, to the force of the Common-wealth, especially in such matters as may affect the rest of the community, that they may have Jurisdiction in their own hands. That's a confession, and that's how it is. And that, in principle, I... You ask me if I agree with that. On principle, yes. On the state, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u63	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u64	[[Microphone Off Speaks]] that it has other shades. Klaro, I can't get to know them because they don't know them because you didn't pass them. And you're talking to me about this deal, and I'm asking you about practice, and what's going on about it. And I want to bring you an incident on your own. The Civil Guard of Biscay, on December 10, due to an intervention called the Dogg operation, have put the following message on social networks: "The civil guard has solved two bad crimes in the Aran; two puppies were struck to pieces. Animals have feelings, rights too. We must respect and look after them. And this "we must take care of the rights of animals" I don't know whether it's rhetoric or whether it's the Seprona who has to watch over the rights of animals. And what I think is that they're going to do like this in Araban, Bazazia and Gipuzia. And when the Civil Guard advertises its actions here, in environmental matters, when the International Day of Animal Rights is put on medals, I don't know, it doesn't sound like a goodbye to me. It does not sound to me that they are withdrawing or that they are retreating from this particular competition, but that seems quite the opposite to me. And I agree more with that threat that you saw in the Basque Public Security Plan, concerning the biased interpretations of the Basque competitive framework, the famous repositioning of the State Security Forces and Corpses to invade niches that do not belong to them, that is, a competitive invasion, which I am at least concerned about. And that's why I asked him what practice is and what reality is. And if you go in favour of that decision which this Parliament has adopted, with its own vote, to bring them into line with the strict scope of its powers. Or if they're doing just the opposite. With this (...) expansive, which is the I am asking you. And the quid is not only what the Seprona does, it is not a question of competitive legitimacy, but also what the Ertzaintza does, and if it has the troops, the resources, the media, the prestige that Seprona has, which for me does not have it and for other collectives neither. Here a decision was taken in 2018, to give effectiveness to the Ertzaintza Environmental Unit, and there are a lot of points that have not been implemented. And so we think we must continue this discussion, that we must continue with the means, that we must continue this discussion. And EH Collect will receive initiations from February for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u65	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Arzuaga tells me that everyone has the record, except you. I have just told you that the record has not been officially approved and not everyone has it. What has been reproduced here by two officers of the Ertzaintza is an agreement of that record. A record that is not yet official, but a timely agreement that is consensual and reproduced it in its entirety, not only the phrase that you have reproduced here. They literally reproduced the whole agreement, with its three paragraphs, where a specific attribution is recognized in line with what is stated in Article 17 of the Statute of Gernika in relation to activities which transcend the territorial scope of the Autonomous Community. I don't know the announcement on the media or on the social media you're referring to. I don't know him. I don't follow up on the Civil Guard media. I don't know if you do that. I don't do it and, therefore, I have no knowledge whether or not they have done it. Nor do I know whether what they have put on is an exaggeration or whether it corresponds to reality or not. What I can tell you is that the agreed is the agreed. That the agreement is agreed with the Department of, with the Ministry of the Interior, and that it is reflected in the draft minutes to be formally approved at the next meeting. He tells me that from there what it is about is more prestige of the services of the Ertzaintza linked to the environment, because the Seprona, according to you, has great prestige and the Ertzaintza does not have it. That also depends on the attitude each one has towards one body or another. Finally, I admit that you have some complaints, so as to feed your historical and well-known animadversion of Ertzaintza, because you prefer to take advantage of any police force before you recognize the least merit of Ertzaintza. You can always get better. We're working on it. Of course I do not say that Ertzaintza is in full service and meets 100% of everything. Of course there is scope for improvement in this, as in the others, and we are, and we are working on all fronts. And the agreement adopted at the Security Board is an agreement that I believe is clear, and clearly responds to the request of the State Prosecutor's Office that clear and precise rules should exist in the specific field of the environment. There, in the division of competences between Ertzaintza and Seprona, and Seprona, there are clear and precise rules. There's no doubt about that. That is the legality that must be respected by all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u67	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interpologies of the United States of the House of Representatives, Vice Presidents, Work, and Empedugus, in the public work, and properly in works of AHT and St. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u68	Yeah. Thank you, ma'am. And good morning to all. Mrs. Mountain, last May, your government tested 2030 Euskal Empulgue Strategy. This strategy, in the charming eucalyptic employments, speaks of a new period, and also indicates that it is a compact which favors social employment, at the same time an economic and social development of eucalyptics. Besides, we have heard you talk about the preparation of employment, and that it is the principal object of the employment policy of your government, you have more than once expressed the inclusive employment of quality... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... and that it is the principal object of your government's employment policy, you have more than once expressed the inclusive employment of quality. In the discussions of this strategy, various solutions were admitted, others which determine what is worthy of employment and inclusive, because they are not mere words that are worthy of employment and incommunicable. In supported resolutions, it defines what quality employment is: which is founded on just and suitable conditions of work, which guarantees the vital security of the mutual development between one and family, which encourages and assures the workers of personal development, which reduces the internal environment, and places itself in the direction of the ecological transition, and in the way of man and woman's equality, which animates the new productive and refractivity. In the Eulegal strategy of the Esquila, it is expressed that the firm answer to the prevarication and prevention of a functionary, which is extended by definite measures and measures, must be the employment of a function which offers opportunity for a tolerable future. Well, chief physician, what we got on the Maple strategy doesn't agree with the reality of the public work conditions. In point of fact, we are speaking of the conditions of working in two great works; the high-speed train and the U-bahn U-bahn. That's why we won't talk to you today about the waste of money, not even about the impact of the environment of these two great works. To-day we wish to speak of the rights of men working in these works, and the influence of their conditions of life. At the beginning of this month, many of the leaders of EAJ, a member of your government, have been delighted to celebrate the final achievement brought from Madrid. We have been told that negotiations have been productive of fruit, and that EAJ has made a deal of high speeding train with the Spanish Government as "historian." Through the AHT's Gasteize and the entrance to Bilbo, the Basque Institutions will take care of doing these works, once and for all. And this is one of the principal reasons that lead us to an interaction which we now exhibit: When your government talks about taking over and improving the work of a high-speed train, as far as your department is concerned, you have even thought of taking care of the responsibility to complete this work with the work-preference that is developing? The working conditions in which the works of the speed train are being developed are well known. But this has not been enough to at least so far for the Basque administrations to have made firm commitments to the systematic violation of labour rights and of occupational safety and health. Failure to comply with the collective agreement, excessive working hours and overtime, abusive working rhythms and overloads and long subcontracting chains, where it is difficult to coordinate the prevention of occupational risks. More than a decade of this work has even given to write a book entitled Zuloan, written by Urko Apaolaza and edited by Manu Robles Arangiz and the magazine Argia. A book that I'm sure you know and that serves well to know the reality that you don't want to see and that is based on the testimony of many workers who have dared to speak. Since the publication of this book, and despite the fact that many of the sections of the works have been completed, in the works that follow we can say that the precarious situation described in this book is maintained until today, as confirmed by the ELA union that keeps its visits to the works. Since 2008, ten people have died working on the high-speed train. According to a report by the LAB union, the reasons for these deaths are: in three accidents because of the so-called non-traumatic causes, which are those related to the abusive loads of work; another because of crushing by a roof, formwork structure, on 14 July 2008 in Luku; by an electrocution, in Durana, on 11 August 2010; by an explosion, on 9 December 2010, in Escoriaza; because the truck driving has been precipitated by a ravine, on 6 September 2011 in Toulouse; by the fall on a piece of large tonnage, on 11 July 2012 in Arrasate; by the trapping by the compressor of making the scissors, on 26 August 2013 in Bergara; and by the trapping between two trucks, on 2 October 2018 in Zizurkil. As can be seen, accidents in the 21st century but for reasons that correspond to those of the last century and, moreover, all of them avoidable. Most of them are about 80 per cent migrant people, who take advantage of their vulnerable situation, people fleeing unemployment and the loss of hope of being able to live and work in their countries. As expressly stated in his Government's Employment Strategy, accidents at work and occupational diseases are one of the most extreme and dramatic features of the current structural precariousness. Mrs. Department, it is incompatible to say that your government is betting on office worthy and inclutive, and willing to approve of the conditions of work which are developing by a high-speed train, it is impossible. We have to make strict measures to end up with the immunity of certain companies. As it is said in a hole in the book, we ought to limit the empire of the contractors. The worst part of it is that this situation has not been solved, and the circumstances of the Precinct are being repeated on the works of the St. Donostian subway. Duela hilabete bat, Legebiltzar honetako Lurralde Plangintza, Etxebizitza eta Garraio Batzordean, aukera izan genuen entzuteko ELAko bi syndikalistak, azalduz egun Donostiako metroko obretan gertazzen ari dena. Eta berriro entzun dugu: non-compliance with the agreement, 19-hour days, it is found that 35 workers accumulate more than 10,000 extra hours in ten months that are not even paid or compensated, trucks with unfavorable ITV and that carry twice their load, accumulate 25 fines of the Ertzaintza, and machinery in bad condition". Situations that, until the time of the appearance, accumulate 14 complaints in the Inspection and 40 lawsuits in the courts. Again, counselor, it is incompatible to say that your government's bet is in favour of inclusive and quality employment, and look elsewhere at the precarious work and lack of security that are being given in the works of the high-speed train... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... incompatible to say that his government's bet is in favour of inclusive and quality employment, and look elsewhere at the precarious work and lack of security that are being given in the works of the high-speed train and in the works of the Metro of Donostia. Here you have a wide margin of improvement to show that your government, beyond the discourse, is willing to commit to taking measures to ensure that neither the Speed Train nor the Donostia Metro nor other public works that are going to develop in the future have to be paid for with health too, when not with life, because it is either malvious or because it can be lost. It is not possible to promote precarious employment with public money. And the companies that are developing the works under the precarious conditions denounced by the unions are collecting public money. It's being paid with public money. Therefore, for all this, our direct interpelation to the lady's high chief physician: What's your purpose to ensure the social conditions of AHT and the staff of the Donostian Metro are worth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u70	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs. Garcia, the government never looks the other way. And it is true what you say, that the 2030 Strategy, the Basque Employment Strategy, is an ambitious strategy that marks the road map that we have to follow across all the institutions. And, of course, in the first person, I assume the leadership responsibility for this strategy, because I bear the responsibility of the Department of Labour and Employment. Therefore, the whole of the Government, and as far as my responsibility is concerned, we work every day to ensure that the conditions are met; and above all, to guide the whole of Basque society to the fulfilment of those objectives set by the Basque Employment Strategy 2030. But, as the first reflection that deserves your inquiry, it is important that the impulse to the high-speed train in Euskadi is important. And I think it is particularly important that today, in the course of budgetary debates, the high-speed train is not being questioned precisely, and that what concerns you, as the representative of Euskal Herria Bildu, is what the working conditions are in which this work of vital importance is being carried out. And I stress that importance because it was up to me to be a spokesman for the Basque Government. A government that, a decade ago, agreed, for the first time, with the Government of Spain, the formula of management commission for these works. And that we should do so despite all the obstacles, some even tragic consequences, to the promotion of this infrastructure. That the management commission was the one that prompted the definitive deployment of the work throughout Gipuzkoa, and that it was also then up to us to monitor the conditions of those who worked there, not only for their own work in the trench, but because it also endangered their physical integrity by the terrorist threat. Ten years later, as I say, a new agreement is reached to complete the train's entry into our capitals. It is a huge opportunity to finish this project with so many obstacles. An opportunity also to urbanize our capitals. And also an immense job opportunity, of course, of quality. And this commission comes in the context of the approval of general budgets in Spain, which, in addition, will be validated by representatives of the vast majority of Basque society. Of the 18 deputies who leave Euskadi sit in Congress, 17 will vote in favour of the General Budgets of the State. A far-reaching, far-reaching agreement and political sense that I believe we should highlight in these times when noise hides the decisions that benefit the Basques as a whole. But, as Mrs Garcia says, our department, moreover, and as in all public and private works, it is up to it to ensure that the conditions of these employment opportunities are of the highest quality and safety. And last May this House had the opportunity to discuss, as you pointed out, the road map which included all the issues that the parliamentary groups considered necessary. And among them, there was not exactly any thought that would deepen the conditions of public subcontracting beyond the lines that already arise at the origin of the Basque Employment Strategy 2030 and which refers precisely to the social clauses whose regulation this Parliament agreed in 2016. So, that's the first control tool we have in the department. The second is to ensure scrupulous compliance with the Public Sector Contracts Act, which obliges companies that subcontract works and services to comply strictly with the law, which is precisely, I understand, one of their demands in their inquiry. And I can share that legality can sometimes fall short of expectations. The current labour legislation has allowed, and allows, companies, in compliance with the law, to enforce company agreements above the sectoral ones that are detrimental to the working conditions of the workers. I therefore believe that for this management order, as for the rest of public or private contracts, the agreement reached at the Bureau for Social Dialogue in Spain, which, among other things, returns to sectoral agreements and collective bargaining to the preferred place of regulation of working conditions, will be particularly relevant. An opportunity also for all groups sitting in this House, through their representatives in the General Courts, to have the opportunity to endorse – I hope in the shortest possible time – in time to address the outstanding work on the high-speed train. And that's where the two most effective tools come in the hands of the Department of Labour and Employment, which are also the first to be cited in the Basque Employment Strategy 2030, which are the Labour Inspectorate and Occupational Health and Safety oriented from Osalan. In this regard, I assure you of the express commitment that both the Inspection and Osalan will monitor together with the social actors the fulfilment of the working conditions that must be... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... I assure you of the express commitment that both the Inspectorate and Osalan will monitor together with the social partners the fulfilment of the working conditions that must accompany every working person. And I am talking about the social actors because there is an added instance in which we all have something to say, it is the Public Works Commissions, which have worked very effectively in the great constructions that have been developed these years in Euskadi, and which precisely were born in 2010 because of the acceleration of these works and which have then been used in others, there are the administrations, the companies and the social agents involved. Therefore, Mrs Garcia, I believe that we are facing four good news: one, the guarantee of general state budgets aligned with those of Euskadi and with the needs of the Basques and endorsed by most Basques, the guarantee that we will complete the greatest infrastructure in our country, the employment opportunities that this work will generate and the commitment of my department that is committed to ensuring the conditions of the working people at the hands of all the social actors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u72	Well, as in all matters, the first and essential step is the reality that must be changed, whether it be crude or not pleasant. It is difficult to change a reality, or a problem may solve its existence if its existence ceases. From his words I want to understand that it does not happen as happened the other day in the commission when the trade unionists of ELA informed us of the situation of the public work in the subway of Donostia, where a companion of their political group denied the diagnosis, denied the reality. I would like to understand that in this firm commitment you have shown here to control the conditions under which this work takes place, they are based on the fact that there is indeed much to improve and that there is a situation denounced by the trade unions there. I don't think the Employment and Labour Advisor thinks all unions are lying. And today we're talking about working conditions, that doesn't just mean we're talking about working conditions today. And I told you that today we are not going to talk about the environmental impact of these works, nor are we going to talk about the economic waste that they entail. We are going to talk about working conditions, which I think has also been too little talked about or too little done. But well, in addition to that firm commitment that you have expressed to us, we would have liked to have heard more concrete measures too, no. But, well, we understand that if we accept the diagnosis that the situation is... of this public work is bad, I think there will be possibilities, I insist if there is political will, to agree on how and what measures to take. We think today, for instance, we'll put three necessary measures on the table for EH Collect. First of all, we have to talk to the unions. You said so too, but you've got to talk about it not just at the social conversation table, not just for the protection of the nicest government. Even when they criticize and accuse the prevarication of public work, we must listen to the unions. The unions know this fact well, and therefore should be allies in deciding the measures to take. Second, sub-contractory systems and lintation systems need to be reviewed. The excess of prices causes the preparation of employment. With respect to the price of modification, we must ensure that the conditions of labour are fulfilled. The endless chains of subcontraction must be limited. These sub-contradictions links have long since lost their principal purpose, namely, to counterpoise the work which the main company cannot provide for their specialty. At the present day, the principal purpose of these sub-contradictions is to pay costs to increase economic gain. And the third is to establish effective control mechanisms to ensure that measures are taken, because not only must we have the possibility of negotiating collective agreements in our field, but also mechanisms must be put in place to ensure that they are complied with, that social clauses, recruitment and prevention standards are complied with. To this end, I would like to remind you that within the framework of the Employment Strategy, a resolution was adopted by which your Government is committed to strengthening the Labour Inspectorate by increasing the ratios of labour inspectors in order to reach the averages in Europe, from which we are far away today. In the recently adopted Basque Strategy for Safety and Health at Work 2021-2026, which I saw this week in the media that is recently approved and that will be presented, I have seen that there is also talk of strengthening the Labour Inspectorate. To conclude, and as I have said before, it is time to make commitments to the inclosive employment of public works, actions, and actions. And, for the time being, we need to tell them how and when they'll be executed. And to agree, to say and agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u74	We do not deny reality in the Basque Government. And from what I have also been able to observe, in preparing this inquiry which you presented to me today, I have also been able to follow up on requests for information through questions, requests for documented information which your group has addressed to the Department of Transport and which has given a full reply. He asked me today, and I have responded from the point of view of my responsibilities. But to me what I know too... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... Transport and that it has given a full reply. He asked me today, and I have responded from the point of view of my responsibilities. But what I am also aware of, from the replies that the Department of Transport has given, is that, given the existence of certain complaints, there have subsequently been negotiated agreements to resolve these problems with the unions themselves. He also knows that the demands of the Basque public administration, in this particular case of the Department of Transport, when making these contracts, the demands are high. But, said this, I believe that the channel through which complaints have to be channelled and who has to be the tool, and it is the tool because it is so marked by the law, is the work inspection. You pointed out three measures as a conclusion of your inquiry here today. Talk to the unions... Well, I've pointed out a path that can work, which is the public works commissions where all parties sit. That may be one of the solutions. Of course, the Social Dialogue Bureau, although it does not seem important to you, seems to me to be a central body for public policies and, above all, to establish policies linked to labour regulations and which, in the end, affect occupational health and the quality of workers' employment, which is what you pointed out with regard to the issue of subcontracting. We hope that we will soon be able to reach an agreement at the Social Dialogue Bureau in Madrid, which will allow us to have more secure labour legislation. And finally, you were talking about effective control mechanisms and labour inspection. Well, you know, gentlemen of the Bildu group, but the whole of the House, that this department, both since I was at the front, as before was my companion Mary Jesus Saint Joseph, has been increasing the number of work inspectors and subinspectors on a permanent basis. But you also know, and we are not going to cheat on the lonely, who does not depend on us to provide those places, but depends on the public offers of employment that the Ministry of Labour launches and that then they want to be covered by the inspectors themselves who have obtained the places. Therefore, we, as an autonomous community, are doing our duties. We are providing the places; we are providing them with budget. We are also setting up an inspection on the subject of equality and occupational health. We are therefore preparing the Administration. At times we can equip them and at other times they remain vacant. But let you know that this is an issue that concerns and concerns the social and economic actors who sit on it in the Bureau of Social Dialogue and which concerns and occupies the Basque Government. You pointed out that, precisely in the Osalan Council, when the strategy for the next five years was adopted this week, this was one of the issues that led to the agreement and a shared claim, which we, as a Government, share. And we are going to continue to create more places for labour inspectors, do not hesitate, in the next year, in the year 22, because we have also pointed this out in the budgets. And I... I would like to have the opportunity to share with you the new 21-26 occupational health strategy, which we will have the opportunity to analyse in depth next year. It seems to me that it has been an intense work, involving all the government departments, but also the Osalan Council, economic and social actors, and prevention services. And next Tuesday I announce that I will report to the Governing Council. And when the new year 2022 begins, I want to make an act publicizing this strategy, because it seems to me important that we start thinking about occupational health in a way that 20 years ago was thought about with traffic safety. No one attached importance to the seat belt and so many things that have prevented deaths. We want people, in general, citizenship, to see job security as something everyday in their lives and to be impregnated in the day-to-day life of citizenship. And, therefore, we want to publicize this strategy. And we want to share it with you, how not, and we want to include in it, that we have included, issues such as the gender perspective, the age of the workers, which also has to do with many pathologies, the psychosocial risks, which are many... Well, anyway, I think it's a strategy up to the times we have to face. And we'll keep working.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Number of points in theme list: "Interregation, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, a member of the Basque Groups of Popular-Chapéans, a chief member of the Public and Autobernual Division, concerning the principal Traditions of the Ministry of Public and Autogobernus throughout this law." Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government. Madam Counsellor, Mrs Garamendi, well, I am asking you a question today, because, as has already been mentioned in some other previous speech, perhaps it is a good day, I thought it might be a good day to take a little stock of what has been done by the role and work, above all, of your department, in what we have been doing in the legislature. To do this these days I've been reading a lot. And, well, I've focused a little, I've begun to elaborate a little, to make, let's say, a map of issues that have been made, that have not been made and that I would like to discuss with you here today, in this inquiry. If you think I'll do a little review to make it easier for you to work on your shift... I'll give you a review and then you'll be able to point out, light up and shed light on issues that worry me a lot and that I believe are of the general concern of the citizenry. Well, in your initial appearance before the relevant committee of institutions of this Parliament you set out what you were going to be, the general outlines of your department. And there he emphasized a number of issues. Much was said of the term "modernization of the administration". There was talk of digitizing the administrative structure. There was also talk of the need to take people into account, which people are the most important. People are always the most important, but in the Administration, specifically, also with regard to the work that people do at the service of public administrations. He also referred to a number of issues, the laws he intended to deal with, registered in Parliament as bills. And then he also made a curious reference to what contentious activity is. He made an allegation there in defense of self-government, etc. Well, it seemed like we were still in a state... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... And then he also made a curious reference to what contentious activity is. He made an allegation there in defense of self-government, etc. Well, it seemed like we were still in a centralized state, which I found a little curious, but good. And then, finally, of course, the star of your department and of everyone, now that we have had time to read our budgets well, because the Basque, the euskaldunization of your department, of the officials, of society. That process of transformation of the society in which his party has been immersed for a long time. Let's do a little review, a brief synthesis. First point, digitization. In digitization we have three companies, at least, that are public companies – EJIE, ITELAZPI and then Izenpe – that are supposed to be responsible for doing the process or, at least, that are responsible for implementing, purchasing materials, computers, training, etc. And that, man, I will record more questions on this issue, but, looking a little bit at the budgets and what has also been the execution, gives me the feeling that there is still work to be done here, regarding what you told us at the beginning of the legislature. You'll tell me man, Mr. Gordillo, I'm still three years old. Man, we've been waiting a long time, too. Because the programme that you presented to us, Madam Counsellor, was exactly the same programme that Mr Erkoreka presented to us, or that he presented to us in this Parliament, I did not then belong to this House, and it is the one that has been repeated by the advisers with responsibilities in public administrations or, as your Government now calls this department, self-government, governance, etc. And it's year after year. Year after year are the same projects. Year after year is digitization, modernization and some laws that, year after year, have begun their processing and have remained in the way. As far as this digitisation process is concerned, I am particularly concerned about the review of the activity, let us say, accounting, that on 30 December, as a man, your department's real investments are only executed at 38%. I imagine that in December, as it usually happens, here the last month of the year is the month that everything that has not been done in the previous year is done. And I don't know if they're going to put in some spending arrangements to, say, make it look like we're running – even if we're going to talk about this in the next question – which would seem like we're running this issue. It always happens with the investment chapter, we know, a problem. Hence the next question. That's why I'm not stopping here. Next point. People. He's introduced two bills to us. It was actually the same thing, but as everyone in this House knows, the Law of Bodies and Scales to make a..., I understand that in order to try to speed up and find some solution to the very serious problem facing our administration. The rest of the Spanish, too, but here in Euskadi, it is particularly serious. In some sectors, it reaches 70% to 80%, as I know. We are, more or less, as the Basque Government itself acknowledged in some appeal to the Constitutional Court, more or less, in half of temporary or assimilated employment. And he's gone. A pity that we could not reach an agreement there, because I only asked them, in support of this law, to introduce the specific corps of prison officials to the groups that support the Government. I understand that with your knowledge, counselor – and here I want to share my sadness with you – I was not able to persuade them. Then the Public Employment Act. The Public Employment Act is still there. Let's see how it's developing, but it doesn't look like this is going to be a..., it doesn't look like we can find a solution to this very big problem, on a very simple question. And it's just that there's not yet been a diagnosis of why. I have asked you about all the appearances you have had in the Commission, but in almost all of them I have asked you about this situation. I mean, why do we have that level, why do we have that very high level of interinity in the public administrations. If the cause is not known, any solution proposed now will be a patch until, again, that bag, and again, again, that balloon is filling up. As for the measures to the other laws, the Public Sector Act, which is still in the process also, although amendments have already been tabled by all groups, and I used this law to present a series of modernization measures, to give you ideas simply. Because I believe that the modernization of administrations, as you yourself have acknowledged several times, is a constant process. I have given him several ideas, but, once again, I have not met with receptiveness on the part of the Government, if any, the groups that support him. They're not things I make up. In other words, there is no more access to the OECD website. And there are a number of materials and studies that specify what measures modern administrations have to take to be really modern, close to citizenship, etc. Here you have a book of recommendations on what public service leadership has to be as well. It's a fairly comprehensive book, it's on the OECD website. Man, it's written in English, but I'm sure someone in your department knows Shakespeare's language and they can work it. I have allowed myself to extract a few measurements from them. First, a statute for managers of the Basque public sector, for example. Hey, let's not be all this... The way digital administration has been understood is the problem, that of always appointing senior officials and industry managers. That's not digital administration, obviously. So, man, I think it would be advisable for us to establish open, fully open processes, and for people to spontaneously submit their candidatures, even to the high offices. There's no way either. I have proposed, among other things, that before the appointment of the senior officials, removing the members of the Governing Council, logically, for a hearing to be held, that a hearing be held, let us say, in the relevant committee. Listen, and let each selected person present his or her resume and the many virtues that adorn his or her person and that make him or her worthy of being appointed as a senior official of the Basque Government. Neither. Neither. You'll tell me man, Mr. Gordillo, that's not what any government does. Well, look, it's just that European governments are starting to do it now, and this is going to come sooner or later, or it would have to. So, I think we could take a little leadership here, whenever we talk, but neither. I also proposed a basic legal regime for agencies that could be executive agencies, etc. And above all, a real system of external evaluation of public policies. A system of external evaluation of public policies. Neither. I wasn't lucky about that either. You say no, Mr. Gordillo, if the Public Sector Act speaks of self-assessment. Man, self-assessment, man, I believe that public policies have to be evaluated by external actors. If we all evaluate ourselves, I think we'll have a tendency to put the highest score on you... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... For man, I believe that public policies have to be evaluated by external actors. If we all evaluate ourselves, I think we'll have a tendency to get the most out of it. Yes, I have seen some activity on the contentious issue. I don't know many cases. But well, he has invested time people from his department, akin and such, in this book, a bestseller in the field of public administration, The Silent Erosion, which is what it is called. It seems, therefore, that the Basque Government supposedly has a list of grievances in the face of these attacks on self-government, which always, let us say, pervades and which the central governments design regardless of their political colour. Well, it's okay. We could discuss it in a monographic session, if you want. But I don't think he's making much of it either. The best defence of self-government, Counsellor, is to increase collaboration between public administrations, avoid overlaps and emphasize the recruitment of officials and staff in the service of public performances, select the best, and focus on the governing bodies. Anyway, counselor, here are some issues and some more that I will develop in the second round, but basically this is what worries me. And that's why I'm asking you today, what are your purposes, above all, in relation to these issues, and your department, for the rest of the legislature? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u77	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. To answer, Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u78	Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. Mr. Gordillo, you've prepared a wide interpelation, very wide, and with regard to the content as well as the amount of time it takes. To justify your interaction, you've made a long career in many areas of the department I run: You explain a general and not very exact plan. And, indeed, by this, I shall be able to give you at least a part of the work we are doing in this legislation, since there is no time to be done with the same general nature. As you said, as you have done, I shall also consider the position which I made at the beginning of the law, in order to give an answer to your concerns. Of course, it's in our commitments to the government program in this legislation to the north. Mr Gordillo, you are going to allow me to make my own summary of the work carried out by this department during this long year of the legislature. Already advanced in my first appearance before this House that one of our main objectives is to modernize and improve public services by the hand of the digitalization of the Administration, we placed people as the central axis and destination of all our public policies. To this end, it is necessary to continue working on a modern and efficient administration that guarantees quality public services. A transparent administration, committed to citizen participation and good governance. I have already spoken to you in this rostrum of the study of the University of Gothenburg. Focusing on the Government Programme, commitment 147 points to progress towards a closer, simpler and more efficient administration. It contemplates the adoption of the Public Sector Act, yes, as well as the redesign of the relationship model... of the administration's relationship with the citizenry based on the impulse of digitisation and the philosophy of innovation to simplify. As you well know, the Public Sector Bill was tabled for debate and approval in this House a few months ago. And we'll expect it to be approved early next year. It is a vital law on which to redesign the Basque administration of the future, which best suits the changing challenges ahead. But, also, my relationship to the same commitment of the program, this Tuesday the Governing Council approved Arditz, the Strategic Plan for Governance and Public Innovation and Digital Governance 2030, which aims for attention to multi-channel citizenship and the quality of public service, while proposing advances in digital governance. Arditz responds to two of the commitments made by the Government in this legislature: on the one hand, the commitment to the implementation of the Basque Digital Strategy, of Digital Government, and, on the other hand, to the elaboration of a Strategic Plan for Governance and Public Innovation. This is the cross-cutting instrument of governance, public innovation and digital governance of our Administration. It is worth noting, as a brushstroke, initiatives in the areas of citizen care, digital government focused on citizenship, digital services, interoperability, data governance, artificial intelligence, identification systems, accountability or open government. Recently, we also approved the Strategic Plan for Information and Communication Technologies 2021-2024, which covers the entire public sector, and establishes a new model for managing new technologies more efficient, coordinated, agile and close in the public service that we provide to citizens. As I said on some other occasion, the Digital Administration has come to stay. And it is not only that from the administration we drive it, but that the very use that citizenship gives it attests to it. In the last 16 months there have been 24 million visits to the electronic headquarters, an increase of more than 64%. And the Euskadi.eus portal has received more than 382 million visits. It is also spectacular the increase in the use of 90% in Nire karpeta, My folder, which covers the 7 million visits. And we continue to launch new initiatives. Like this week, enabling the possibility of making payments to the Administration through the Bizum or my Power Wallet. With regard to open government, a fundamental part of a modern administration, the Second Inter-Agency Plan for Progress in Open Government in Euskadi has been drawn up during the parliamentary term. It is a co-created plan with citizens, which includes commitments to be implemented with the collaboration of civil society and in a coordinated manner between the three institutional levels of Euskadi. For its part, in all this gear the public employee staff, of course, is key... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... the three institutional levels of Euskadi. For its part, in all this gear, public employees, of course, are key. You mention this in your initiative, when you appeal to your management and restructuring. However, it is obvious that a law promoted by this department has recently been adopted or has been omitted, and one of its objectives is precisely that of the management, restructuring and adaptation of staff to the Bologna Plan, the aforementioned Law on Bodies and Scales. On that basis, we have great challenges to address, indeed, in the field of public service, such as updating job relationships, approving the new offer of public employment, carrying out the calls for OPEs, and reducing the high rates of interinity, as well as addressing the generational relief, in a accompanied manner and ensuring the transfer of knowledge. We also facilitate our workers' learning and professional development. Also the job itself, in areas ranging from equality, euskera, protection of personal data or even cybersecurity. Finally, with regard to the self-government of Euskadi, you say that the processes of re-centralisation by the State are not understood, nor do they affect the welfare of citizens, although you mention, and have taught, the publication "Silent Erosion", a compendium of rigorous and objective legal reports that account for this re-centralisation and the different techniques with which it is being perpetrated. A calm and unbiased reading shows this reality, with concrete and real cases. This Government does not renounce its values, such as mutual recognition, loyalty, institutional respect, cooperation or bilaterality. Nor do we give up what is legally recognized in our Statute, in two respects. On the one hand, the defence of recognized self-government, through political and legal reaction to the above-mentioned process of re-centralisation, and in defence of the rules and actions of Basque institutions when their constitutionality is questioned. And, on the other hand, claim the pending self-government to transfer until the end of the agreement and endorsed in the Statute of Gernika. In this regard, we have taken steps, he has already commented, following further transfers, including the management of prison institutions. Although, at the same time, we are witnessing, in the first line, how difficult it is to materialize the commitments, no longer only recognized in an organic law, but contemplated in a timetable proposed by the State Government itself. However, we will not fail to demand compliance with our Statute. And we appeal to negotiation and bilaterality as instruments that are far more constructive than confrontation, mistrust and conflict. All this for the full development of our self-government. Greater self-government, Mr Gordillo, is synonymous with greater well-being, greater proximity to decision-making, based on a better knowledge of the needs of citizens. You were asking about your plans for fun in your interpenetrations about our major activities for the whole legislation. And, as you can see, we're working and we're fulfilling our commitments. We're filling up the government program. Yes, and our legislation is the same as our calendar. That's our purpose. continuing to fill. I could give more details, but I encourage you to be patient. Let us pass over legislation, in order to be able to estimate our action with more knowledge and depth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, I am very patient, so much so that I ask questions to your department; I present questions to you to explain questions... And, listen, even when the time comes, I am prepared to even sign an agreement in this House with the groups supporting the Government, for example, as the other day, on the occasion of the future development of the law on the protection of whistleblowers, for example, which, by the way, is the deadline for transposition of the directive, without going to happen this month or the next month or the other. The thing is, of course, you tell me very curious things. And, of course, modernization of the administration. But, let's see, if the laws you brought us are all the texts of 2015, at best, with reports already expired, in many cases. (...) from the public sector, please, that in the middle we had the other national laws that completely changed the public administrations. Sure, and it brings us a law that doesn't bring anything. It's just that I've already told you, the Basque Public Sector Act is that it doesn't bring anything. For that it would have been better a consolidated text, a consolidated text. It just doesn't bring anything. You can make a compendium, spend the money better... You make a compendium of current, orderly regulations, and give them to public officials and employees. The Bologna Plan, man, say that with the Law of Bodies and Scales we have implemented the Bologna Plan, oysters... I have courage, but you beat me. Come on, the Bologna Plan, as you call it, the fundamental point is precisely competence work and competence evaluation. There's nothing in that law I know about, but, well... The importance of people. Oysters, great. The importance of people and has 50% of the staff of public administrations in a situation of absolute insecurity. Man, I don't know... Digitalization, listen, but if one of the amendments I proposed to your team to bring into the Basque Public Sector Act was, precisely, interoperability. And they didn't want to. In some cases, it takes up to three different digital certificates to do what online administrative procedures. Of course, then, of course, when we come to the opposition groups making such proposals, always what concerns them is the deadlines. You don't want deadlines. You just... The government of "we'll go and see," "we'll go and see." "Mr. Gordillo, we work in my apartment." Man, they'll go every Monday and they'll go Friday, but move on, move on some things, I don't see it. Then I really liked what you said about, uh, sorry... greater self-government is greater well-being... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Then I really liked what he said about "greater self-government is better well-being." Well, man, I don't know. So there's no welfare in a centralized state? Closer. I'll get the value phrase back. Closer. But let us see, and why, once we centralize some of the powers of the Basque Government, the parliaments. If it is closer and with that there will be greater well-being. But the Basque Government does the opposite. If in the Act on Contributions what we have seen is the opposite, it is to increase the coefficients in favour of the Basque Government. Well, man, don't tell me no. Well, then I'll go with you, two at a time I can't, Mr. Azpiazu. But then we'll talk about it too. So, man, I really believe, counselor, that's a year that's been a little blank. We have not seen any tangible results. You ask patience, you ask patience from me, I understand that it is also asked from the citizenry, but the truth is that we have seen absolutely no improvement. Look, no, it's just that visitors have increased and so on. Man, it depends on when... If of course, if to go now to do any management one must ask time, of course, for the regulations, some advance and such, because logically, people organize their lives and try as far as possible to access them. And most of the times he accesses it is to inform himself, because, unfortunately, there are procedures that have to be done in person. I therefore really encourage you, Mrs Garamendi, to be ambitious and to accept the ideas that we sometimes propose from the opposition, to improve and, above all, to modernise the administrations. I agree with you that this is a continuous process, of course. But it's just that of the modernization measures... which aren't mine, uh, they're not Luis Gordillo's, they're OECD. They are the ones that the most developed countries are trying and are actually implementing, and every time I bring you a measure of these, the only thing I find is a lock. That is why I believe, Madam Counsellor, that we have done nothing in the first year. Bad. There are still three years left and I will be patient, as you say, but I will continue to control it politically, because I believe that is that there is no progress at all in the modernization of the administrations and, from what I am seeing, we are not going to make any progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u81	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u82	Thank you. Mr. Gordillo, as you see, don't get your interest satisfied with the general review of my department. If I give you some more precise information, I can be closer to getting it. Horrela eta guzti, a blank year, Mr. Gordillo? Nothing further from reality. I hope to convince you. In this regard, I would like to incorporate more detail on some aspects mentioned in your inquiry. With regard to your mention of the degree of implementation of the budget lines, I should like to point out that, as you yourself can see in the last report, this department has authorized expenditure of up to 97.1% of its total budget. In particular, in the budget programme on innovation and e-government, expenditure covering 97.7% of its budget has been authorised. In the information and communication programme, the authorized expenditure amounts to 99.9 % of the budget. All this with regard to the objective reality of the data. Although I personally do not like to look only at the quantitative aspect, I always try to delve into the qualitative aspect of the different approaches I face on a daily basis. Modernizing the administration requires profound changes in the legal system. Changes that provide us with new tools and allow us to design and implement action plans. You, Mr Gordillo, critically appeal to budget execution; and yet, it diminishes the importance of the various bills that we are dealing with from the leadership of this department. We have been too long with regulatory projects on the organisation and functioning of the Basque public sector. The procedure for drawing up rules, and now the procedure for exercising sanctioning power. Up to five, five bills have this department now under way in this House. Thus, to those mentioned above, we must add the draft law on public employment, in fact, and the draft law on civil cassation. We need those institutional rules as soon as possible. And we will also continue to work on its development and new regulations for the future. We look forward to the support and height of your group on this path. The hand, as always, is stretched out, both to his group and to the rest of the opposition. If we are talking about reforming the public service, that challenge requires legal tools, especially at a time when the need to reduce the high rates of interinity is particularly relevant and, therefore, legal certainty is imposed. This government was already here with the Body and Scale Act. Yes, before the State began to repair those problems and propose their regulation. Who would have thought 15 years ago that our exclusive statutory powers in our public service would begin with a policy of budgetary stability. In this sense, the constitutional changes expressed in the economic crisis managed by the PP ended up in mechanisms such as the limitation of the creation of public employment or the replacement rates that affect it. This is one of many examples of centralization that affect our citizenship. To serve our self-government is to promote compliance with the Statute of Gernika, and to avoid its cutting and the retrograde review of our decision-making capacities and the ability to make a Basque public policy. I remind you that the PP demanded, not so long ago, in the Senate, not to accept the catalogue of transfers to Euskadi. That would perpetuate the breach of an organic law. If you have not just seen how these processes would affect the well-being of Basque citizens, perhaps that problem is that, of course, we do not share the same vision of self-government and the decentralization of the State as set out in our Statute. To approach the people by public authority, to their rights, and to the countries in which they are composed. It's getting more and more forgotten about this sector... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... the public approaches to the people, to their rights, and to the countries in which they are composed. There's something more and more forgotten about political sectors. To conclude, I resume the course which this government and this chief physician believe: difference and agreement. That's our model, and we'll still work on it, always for the welfare of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. The 12th point in the theme list: "Interrelation on the measures which the American budgets ought to maintain to be fully executed by the Basque budget, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, a popular-Ciudadese member of the Céranos team." Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u84	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Azpiazu, I'm with you now. The interpellation that asked you the last time and the one that, by the way, couldn't... It couldn't take place because you couldn't come, and I'm glad you're already better and you're already here with us, it's been a while, a couple of weeks. But the truth is that when one analyzes the budget and analyzes the different variables, etc., the truth is that it is of the maximum current every day. And I think, unfortunately, that it will not lose its relevance in the coming months and I believe that not even in the coming years. There is a serious problem of budget implementation. It's true that when it comes to: "Hey, it's that they don't execute budgets", you can do to me, as your partner has done before, to disguise a little the important figure, because the important figure is the investments, "Ah, that I have executed almost 100... the ninety and so many for a hundred." Of course you can say that. But if the investments, which really are the transformative, which are really, let us say, the policies of transformation, of change, of investment in society, are not carried out, for it is hardly good to say that I have actually paid the salary to the staff, less evil, and indeed because I have spent the money on making the necessary purchases because for the citizens to have basic services, obviously. But we're going back to the issue of investment. And it's also a problem, which you can tell me, I'm sure you have it in your intervention, which is not only a problem of the Basque Administration, you'll surely tell me that, and you'll probably also tell me that among all the administrations is that the Basque is the one that runs the most and so on. You'll have to see it. But, above all, what I think is that when it comes to making a budget, if we start from a macroeconomic picture... Look what we've been telling you, I've been telling you all year, "it's that you're too generous with the numbers." Of course, you wanted to paint a macroeconomic picture because of a transformation of the economy, just in Euskadi, the rest of Spain not, nor the rest of Europe either, but Euskadi was going to be, come on, extraordinary. But, of course, to draw a budget that, let's say, fits into what is intended whenever a budget is presented, which is the best in the world, the most expansive, the most social, the most I don't know what. All the budgets presented by the Government are so. But then we meet with the usual thing, which then we have to correct. Lately already... of course, as we insist so much on him, I insist so much on him, for lately already correcting already on the march. The other day, he corrected the macroeconomic picture here. He said, "Hey, I've corrected the macroeconomic picture." And some MP repeated: "It is that Mr Azpiazu has corrected the macroeconomic picture". Sure, sure. And you corrected the budget? No, no, In other words, the macroeconomic table is on which the budget is based, I change the macroeconomic table, i.e. the indicators of growth, inflation, consumption, etc., the change, but I do not change the budget. And why don't you change the budget? Because it doesn't matter. It's just that you don't have a budget, it's just that you know it, it's just that you don't have a budget, it's just that you don't have a budget, it's absolutely the same. If then... Let's see, if the budget is extended and you already have spending arrangements for salaries, for basic skills, etc., for health, for education... it's also that... it's always the same items. It's just that we've seen it. In the more than 1,500 amendments... In the more or less 1,500 amendments that we have tabled to you from our group... that is fine work, so that they do not say that if it is a work of fat brush, oysters, 1,500 amendments are not made in two days, uh, because we have seen it there, it is the same amendments as always. And what we've done has been... The criterion has been... and I will repeat it in the last plenary, it has been to reduce the items in which there is a systematic non-implementation, that has been the criterion. And we have a serious problem. Remnants of treasury. Well, look, in 2020 – we already have the data – a remaining generated of 542 million. In 2019 it is true that the remainder was negative, that is, 400 million more were spent. But it's the only example, it's the only year 2019, uh, and we all know why, because of the pandemic issue. Year 2018, a remaining generated of 373 million. Year 2017, other remaining generated of 440 million. Year 2016, this (...?) A little less, 41 million, which already seems to me to be a respectable amount, but, of course, compared to the remnants of other years, because it does seem almost almost scarce indeed. So, of course, and then when you're told, "Hey, we have a very important accumulated remnant there, why don't we give it back to the budget?" No, Joe, Mr. Gordillo, it's that if I put in the remnant now, of course, I lower the having and then I lower the (...?), and then, of course, when calculating the deficit I can incur and such... Look, I'm not telling you to do it at once. If I said, "Let's do it little by little," let's do it little by little. Because, of course, how is it possible, how is it possible that we have so much difficulty in running games and spending public money? So, if the macroeconomic picture is the same, if we then run yes or no and it's the same, it's the same, what do we put 1.6 billion that we're going to run in investments if we already know, today we know, that they're not going to run? If we already know today that 1.6 billion will not be executed. Of course, it doesn't... By the way, I was delighted by the answer you gave to your party and group partner, in this case, on the subject of European projects. Indeed, and I also share the vision with you, it is a situation with the issue of European funds that is not bearable. But in the case of European funds, what have we done? Instead of doing as the Spanish Government, which has put the items into the budget, here in Euskadi, we have said: "No, we are going to be more conservative. Hey, when the games arrive, through some clauses (...?) We'll put them in the budget." Good. Of course, and it won't be noticed that it's going to cost us to execute it again. Because it's what happens, it's what happens all the time. How is it possible that the Basque Government in the year of the pandemic spent 258 million euros less than the previous year? Let's see, it's the public money that pays the taxes. It's just that this is one thing that seems like we didn't get here to assume. The money is the tax payer's, it's the citizen's. And the government is a mere trustee. I mean, the government... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... He pays the taxes. It's just that this is one thing that seems like we didn't get here to assume. The money is the tax payer's, it's the citizen's. And the government is a mere trustee. In other words, the Government simply administers it on behalf of the citizens. Then, if we are incapable, and your government, look, I speak first of all of the plural, but if your government, the government of already we will see, we will see, that you do not like the deadlines, we will see, if you are unable to spend the money, listen, then return it to the citizens. Return it to the productive sector, return it to the citizens. Go collecting less, go establishing some kind of premium progressively. It always tells me, no, it's not that, Mr Gordillo, how you notice that you don't know the Basque institutional structure, it's up to the outlaws. For a fellow banker of his not long ago is already asking the deputies to approve, as soon as possible, certain tax incentives in the matter of housing policy. So, listen, when you want to, of course, the Basque Government has tools, and many not just persuasive tools, to be able to review the fiscal pressure a little bit. In the last five years, Mr Azpiazu – you know this – has stopped spending 994 million. I'm only going to the investment section, just the investment section. In 2020, nearly 100 million, 95 million in investments were left unimplemented; in 2019, 132; 2018, there was no pandemic, 131; and 2017, 295. Of course, in view of this scenario, what you want me to tell you, Mr Azpiazu, is that here we have a serious problem of execution. Because, again, if we are not able to implement, why do we put those amounts in a budget that we know is not going to be met? For what? What do we do it for? I say this to you: because it is the technique of how budgets are made in Euskadi. How do we budget in Euskadi? Very simple. First we draw an economic panorama, which will be impressive, but come on, (...) this impressive. We're going to grow more than anyone, consumption shot, but more than anyone. Hey, the indicators are telling you otherwise, Mr. Azpiazu. I ask you: listen, oil. No, that's not gonna affect. Hey, the price of energy. No, that's not gonna affect. Hey, the price of raw materials. No, that's not gonna affect. Well, all of a sudden, with that growth, which is artificial, that there's no real basis, because then we draw an income that is very high, that is very high. And then, from there, then we can draw that you're going to collect a lot and that, therefore, there's going to be a lot of money to spend. And then we already have that budgets are the most social, the most such and the best. What's going on? That then, when you're running, reality falls on you. Then what are you doing? Well, you're slowly correcting, without much notice. A new economic day (...), a little less. Another day I don't know where... We're going to grow a little less, we're going to grow a little less. And of course, how do we make the adjustment? For the adjustment we do, of course, all of a sudden they say: now we have to square. And as in the end we have to square, because then I imagine that, because of that fear that then the accounts will not come out, because they will stop running, they will stop running to have a minimum of remnant and not incur, as he would say and how unfortunately many families suffer, in red numbers. That's the way budgets are made in Euskadi, and you know it quite well. That is why, when budgets are made, I believe that what needs to be done, above all, is to be honest, and it has to be an exercise in reality. And that's why the fundamental problem with the budget is that it's not the debt, it's not the debt, it's not even the inflation that's out there, which, by the way, of course, will do you good, because you'll collect a little more. But it's just that, even though he has other macro problems behind him, the big problem is the lack of execution. That is why, Mr Azpiazu, I ask you today, I ask you: Why are we unable to implement, above all, the investment chapter? What's wrong with us? What is it, Mr. Azpiazu? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u85	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u86	Mr. Gordillo. We've been living in a situation we wish we hadn't had a dream for nearly two years. I understand that in this we will be all and all the presidents in agreement. On October 19 you were not in this Parliament yet, but I remember participating in the Forum Europe and I had the opportunity to review the years since the previous crisis, the economic and financial situation of the Government and the impact on the design of the budgets that that crisis had had. At that time I said that we were in times of building bridges, of agreeing between different, I said that society was crying out for us. Look how capricious life is, because today we are in the same situation, even if you resist. But I shall refer again to the question on which I am asked. We started the previous legislature by celebrating the tail winds that pushed the growth of the Basque economy since the recovery began timidly in 2014. A favourable external context, the reduction of oil prices and a comfortable monetary policy (...) helped us to achieve high growth rates that remained around 3% during the 2015-2018 period. In addition, the external success of the Basque Community was based on a gain in competitiveness which was facilitated by a much higher wage restraint than that of the European economies. We managed, with difficulty, to emerge from the large global debt crisis and had to ensure that our leverage was effective, but also balanced, to allow growth. As I was saying, the previous economic crisis had an impact on the way in which public expenditure was structured, reconfiguring it to a considerable extent. We had to deal with this situation, especially through staff costs which account for more than 40% of the budget and also investment. We decide to prioritize the protection of fundamental people and public services, especially health. It is a political priority and decision. Look, our goal was to consolidate a potential growth of 2%, consisting of at least one point of productivity and leaving another point for employment. High economic growth allowed us to recover the pre-crisis GDP level in 2016. But in the case of the budget, that recovery took two more years. The growth effects on the collection were delayed, but were finally noted in 2017. This government managed to maintain the budget surplus since 17, and our financial and economic management has allowed us to start redesigning the Basque budgets year after year. I am sure that you know the ratings this government has and that they support the solvency of our debt issues. And that financial-economic management has been the one that has ensured that the Basque Government has responded immediately... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... that support the solvency of our debt issues. And that economic and financial management has been the one that has ensured that the Basque Government has responded immediately and solidly to the outbreak of the crisis generated by the covid. Remnant and sufficient liquidity enabled us to react from the very beginning, activating measures to support affected sectors, businesses and the self-reliant, but also increasing what has been needed: resources for health, education and social policies. Following the emergency declaration, the Governing Council adopted on 17 March 20 the first budgetary response measures, by setting up a covid programme with nearly EUR 900 million. This crisis has unfortunately revealed the correctness of a recent management of the public accounts that favored fiscal consolidation and maintained a cautious attitude towards possible additional changes to the fall in tax revenues. Mr Gordillo, this government, thanks to its financial and economic management – I mean that of the government, not yours, of course – has been able to cope with this pandemic, and has spent EUR 1.5 billion to do so. And so we have succeeded, we have considered that the sectors of activity that have suffered the most from the economic damage caused by the pandemic must receive our support and we have acted accordingly. We have activated innumerable lines of aid, such as financial support for SMEs and self-employed people; postponement of reimbursement of reimbursable aid; measures to advance payments; aid for restructuring and re-launching firms in crisis; several lines of extraordinary aid for self-employed people; aid for the agricultural, food and fisheries sectors in the form of reduced financial costs, lack of formal loans; aid for the catering sector, for hospitality, for professionals, for culture, for tourism, for the commercial sector; aid for the social economy, for public companies and for cooperatives; aid for workers affected by cases of temporary regulation of employment; aid for night-time establishments and for a long period of time. Having said that, we face 2022 with a clear commitment to public investment: EUR 1,605 million, 50% more than this year. Why? Because we understand that it is time to reactivate our economy and generate employment. I was the first to say that our great challenge is the budget of the execution, and I even told you personally. You know that we agree on this, and the Government will make every effort to implement it. But I will tell you that in 2020 the implementation of the consolidated budget of the Basque Government was 98,09 %. You already knew I was going to tell you, for I am telling you, indeed. And it was also the highest of all autonomous communities. I was gonna say it, too. 94.6 And I'm going to give you a data plus, which you're going to like a lot more. Do you know what was the execution of the Community of Madrid, which you like very much? 92%. That's the global. How much will the investment have been? Ask him, ask the president. I'll give you some more data. The implementation of the year 20 in Chapters 6, 7, 8, the Basque Government was 89% of the final budget and 92.3% of the initial budget. I believe that it is data that are, in fact, improveable, but that it is really important data. For their peace of mind, the revenue provided for in the 2022 budget is a prudent forecast that they will not be affected by any economic growth revisions that may be made. As you know, on Tuesday I announced the revision of the macroeconomic picture, estimating a different growth of the economy. The review was done when I said I was going to do it: once I knew the data for the third quarter of the Eustat. And not, of course, when you were asking me, because then there was no relevant statistical data for you to do so. And the review pointed to a 5.6% decrease from the previous 6.7, 1.1% in 21. But, on the other hand, the revision of the 22nd year leads us to make the growth of the economy 0.3% higher than we thought before, because there is a share of the growth moving to the next year, we are at 6.7%. Also, as you have progressed, but how did you have to criticise that this was not in line with the budgets that we have presented, in fact, nominal GDP is even growing compared to the previous one. It grows by 9.3%. And what does guarantee us is that the revenues, which were already very conservative, will surely give us enough capacity to meet all public spending policies and commitments. But even if I explain it to you again and again, Mr Gordillo, you don't care. There's no way. But I believe that it will be calm with this growth of the economy in 2002, as regards the budget being a budget that can be reached in all its dimensions. In the area of employment, the revision of the forecasts is hardly a change from that of September. The number of people, according to the new scenario, finding employment did 13,390 in the year 21, and almost 11,500 in the 22. The favourable trend in employment will also reflect the unemployment rate, which will be 10% this year and around 9.2% on average next year. The new growth data estimated by Eustat for the third quarter have, as is already known, been significantly lower than expected in the previous scenario, partly because of the effect of the environment of the growth forecasts of the Spanish economy, which have increased from 6.2 to 2.2, and this, as you well know, and because of the relationship that Euskadi has with the Spanish economy, has a really important impact. Another part of the modeling is due to the bottlenecks also that have occurred in the production chains, since the supply is not being able to respond in time to the strong increase in this demand that is occurring. This is particularly evident in sectors such as automotive, which are being forced to stop at the lack of components. And the high demand for goods exists and it is a matter of time that the supply fits the strong demand. It is therefore a delay, as I said before, in production, not a weakness necessarily of the productive fabric or, in other words, that part of the GDP that is not going to be generated this year will be generated next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u87	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Well, Mr. Azpiazu, obviously, the truth is that I don't know anyone who gives me so much reason and yet... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Well, Mr Azpiazu, of course, the truth is that I don't know anyone who gives me so much reason and yet doesn't listen to me at all. I mean, it's all they do is give me reason, because it's also, curiously, here I have it, but it's that then, however, it doesn't do anything. And then I ask you why we have these implementation problems, specifically in investments, and I... again, you tell me that health is a service. Well, obviously, health is a service. That is, basically, what I draw from his intervention is that if things go well, it's that we manage phenomenal, and if they go badly, it's the fault of strange, exogenous or external elements. Let's see, I think it is very bad technique, very bad budgetary technique, constant, to go accumulating a budget surplus in that way, a stock exchange of more than 1 billion, accumulated that is only the General Administration of Euskadi. It's just that if we then start adding Lanbide, 270 million. And we're going to keep asking questions to see how much it's accumulated. It's just that what I don't understand is what the Basque government's interest is in sleeping on top of a bag of money while there are real problems in society, and while... It's just that there are real problems with entrepreneurs. There are real problems with the productive sector. And this you must know, Mr Azpiazu. You're a smart person and you have a good team. It's just that, of course, the help that comes from the Ministry, how much have we returned? One hundred and a million peaks, if I can't remember. It's just that he's returned money. What problem has there been? Have we evaluated it? No, listen, what's going on in there? Of course. Elkargi's help is that then entrepreneurs don't want it. Why? Because Elkargi to give you money requires you to have money. And of course, since you don't have any money, that's why I'm here, isn't it? Well, then you make a statement... to the bank and you go into debt. Hey, I think this money we have... I'm not saying there's no contingency fund. Obviously, you know perfectly well, but come on, it's that you know perfectly, the code, the famous code 99, which is the bag they then use to negotiate a few items with the groups, the code, famous code 99 of the budgets, "other expenses", that famous "other expenses". Of course there has to be, or may be, a contingency fund, indeed. But I don't understand that obsession with accumulating that money, because then it's meant to be, that is, the inability to execute the budget at the expense of taxes and the effort of the citizenry is presented as a success. No, no, we've done so well that we have this money saved here. Well, the truth is, I don't... Come on, it doesn't fit in me. I don't understand. The truth is, I just don't get it. The problem with economic data – and you know it – is that, of course, when that fall in the economy occurred that was caused by the great global stoppage of all activity, including economics, those figures that we are now knowing – as you know – is a kind of rebound effect, that we are now going to grow or there are going to be some figures now, in the short term, of very high growth, but the one that comes on top of us is complicated. Those famous bottlenecks, which are becoming more and more worrying – of which you speak – in the supply chain, which have to do with world shipping. The price of oil, the price of the energy that remains open. And then inflation, because to you, maybe, to square your spreadsheet and so on, inflation will come to us good because we're going to collect a little more. Yeah, but now we're taking away purchasing power from families. And what will be the next point? What's the next point? You and I know that. The next point will be the renegotiation of collective agreements, logically, upwards. So, of course, if you have an inflation of 5.5-6%, the following are the collective agreements. Another added problem for companies as well. That's why I'm the future, unfortunately I don't see it the way you see it. I wish I were, I wish I were, but I don't see it the way you see it. I believe that what we should do is use precisely the funds we have to arm the productive sector, to get out of the situation in which we are and to really prepare them, to get out of this situation in which we are. And the one and last thing I'm saying to you, I would really like you to give me some reason why our inability to implement – if concretely – the investment chapter within the budget comes. Because, man, wages and all that, we know they're automatic issues, but investments. You can tell me, "Look, Mr. Gordillo, it's that the bidding is very complicated and then people turn to me." Well, that's a reason. That's a reason. "Look, Mr. Gordillo, we've had a very big problem as an infrastructure and so on." Well, that's another reason. But give me those reasons. What is the reason why we are unable to implement the investments. And what is the reason why of the 1.6 billion that you, 1.605 million that you have repeated now in this rostrum, next year, by these dates, that I hope we are all here, next year, by these dates I will tell you again: how much we have executed of this amount, Mr Azpiazu, and why we have not gone beyond 50% execution. You'll see.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u90	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u91	Mr Gordillo, this is not the right place to cross bets, but 50% (...) would be taken, 50% investment. Look, I was hoping I wouldn't have to dive into a data cascade, because what you and this Parliament need to know is that the government, of course, and I firmly believe that, and that is why I say it, manages the economic accounts economically and rigorously, rigorously and responsibly. Well, solvent and consistent with our needs to develop public policies. But I'm going to describe the stage to you in some detail too. Remnants of Treasury as at 31 December 2020 amounted to EUR 1,237 million. But once the affected remnants and doubtful collection rights were deducted, the remaining available was 1,073. This increase in the remaining amounts, at the end of last year, was due to our budget surplus in 2020, which was EUR 541 million. But, Mr Gordillo, and this is very important for you to understand, this surplus was not caused by a drop in expenditure, but by the higher revenue from our indebtedness. We resort to our maximum allowable and covid funds to enable them to deal with the pandemic situation. In other words, the Basque Government committed more debt consciously, premeditatedly and plannedly, in order to have sufficient resources in case the pandemic put us in situations of greater tension, because we thought that it was better to prevent than to cure. And proof of all this is that during the year 2021 we have been able to use more than 400 million of these remnants to allocate them to investments and aid to sectors most affected by the pandemic, so the total of remnants available today amounts to 660 million... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... investments and aid to sectors most affected by the pandemic, so the total remaining available to date amounts to EUR 660 million. We take advantage, Mr Gordillo, of the European Union's suspension of the rules of stability and the situation on the financial markets and interest rates, in order to adopt economic and political measures appropriate to a minimum cost, which we believe is doubly positive. Mr Gordillo, the country's major challenges are still there, and it is up to the public sector to coordinate and respond to a world in debt, and a globalization that goes hand in hand with the digital transition, the demographic transition, the ecological transition and the threat of economic and gender inequality. But we must also recover from the enormous wounds that the pandemic is causing, which has revealed the vulnerability of life and the risk it may pose to the dignity of some groups. The great challenges of the world in which we live remain the same, but if we have learned anything, it is that priorities and objectives must change to some extent. There is a need for a Community response at a time when we rediscover that a country's progress rests on the people, where they are cared for, where they deploy their full capacity for work and creation, and, above all, where they stand out for their cooperative attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u92	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Internation, you're in Martíni together with the staff of the Podemos-IU members of the Board of Education to renew their education." Mr Martínnez, it's yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u93	Yeah. Good afternoon. Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, chief physician. As you know, it's a process you're pushing, and as it's also a power in this Chamber, we're involved in high education, we're working, we're listening to the operators. In this education, whether we look to the future, or hear the disputes, contributions, considerations, explanations, and even the general lines of the new law which must be born, we hear or hear propositions. There are more than 90 operators involved in this process, and I should say that the principal cause of the wealth of our society is that of all the contributions which we are listening to in this power. Even in the streets outside this Chamber, they are giving different events, congregations, and mutations for the past few months, connected with the future of education: The Congress of the Basque Education, the successful mutation of the Public Basque School, the thoughts and activities of different unions, dozens and dozens of articles in several media. And even yesterday, in education, we met yesterday, he presented himself with a manifetus for the eucalyptus, the number of his agents. Society, therefore, and politics, are discussing the future of the Basque Education system. There are many subjects which are subject to these discussions: Constant diagnosiss are on the desktop. We are studying the centres of the education system, and also the weaknesses of it: excellentness, segregation, in this country where the use of the support produces large impacts, for example the theme of the difference between the networks. We're also listening to a great deal about the development, the decay, the development of the birth rate, and what kind of development it will have in the education system. We can see how many rooms have been closed during the last few years, and how many others have closed themselves. In order to cultivate this, we believe that there are, in order to cultivate all these matters, two principal examples, to employ, above all, the affair of the descent of birth: the power of the system in the sphere of quality, for which the ratio must be lowered, and the current regulations say that it does not close or oppose the line of public school. As the Ratius maintains, the maintenance or not increasing the number of teachers, and not taking advantage of the chance that this poor situation makes us use of, quality, system quality to strengthen and increase the success of the system. Mr. Collector, at this moment the Education Department has learned that the Board of Education is renewing the educational treaty of schools in the next six courses and preparing the process. As logical as it is, the units that will be compromised will affect all public disciplines and stages. Education system planning is an indispensable tool to insert and plan the equality of our nets or the development of our nets. It is essential that this allocation should be limited to the equity of the system of education, whether the public education should be the axis and spinal of the system, or a subsidarian system. It's no small matter whether we're talking about it or what you're doing, not just in the perspective of the inclusion or the transmission of the support, but because you're talking about an order or an order that will define the future of the Basque public school. We have seen, in recent years, how in certain countries, although the public square is empty, new classes have been spread in the schools of the treaty. I repeat, they are not things that are weak in our hands, and we must all have the will to make a great deal of it in the treaty of education. Again, I assert that in this tribe, together with the whole community of the Podemos-Ituerda Unida, the legislature, has all the will to participate in this compact which defines the euscal educational system. I'm honest with you, and we're honest about it. But to do that, running is no good. We've had a flexibility for all of our teams, and... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... It's not good to hurry. We've had a flexibility for all the teams, and we've accepted a very short, light calendar. And we're making our contribution as best we can, and especially we're listening to different agents. We'll do the same as when we're ready to operate. And we will do the same when we make our public proposals in January. As I have said, running is not a good thing, but as it is said in associations, tampomos aceptar jugar al galaras cartas marcadadas. You've begun a process of solving the offer between 2023-2028 of the contract, as I said. So, four, six years from now, we'll have a plan and planning next year, better in the next few months. These new treaties will be assigned, as I have said, at the moment at which we shall discuss the several contributions of the parliamentary groups. There are probably some contributes of the planning, some of the examples, some contributions of the plates, how the treaties should be made, or how they should be made, about the finance. Then, if this allocation is performed, it will take four or six years to pass through some measures that will be agreed on in this imaginary educational system, and we are not talking about any measures which, without being included in the system, are not implemented on the system. Then we'll have to understand that in four or six years we won't be able to start these measures. So, at the moment, we'd like to know what the wishes, the will, or intention of the Board of Education is to confirm the agreements they plan for the next six years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u94	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u95	Yes, Mrs. President of the legislature. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, good morning. Well, Mr Martínez, I'm really glad I'm here on the legislature to agree to this opening process. Also, the scenes that are happening here, plus those who are out of here, plus several contacts, connections, and already 500 people, and 500 operators, who are running the Board of Education. more than (...) (SPEAKING PORTUGUESE) Nevertheless, I should distinguish what this process, this discussion, and reflection are, and what is daily. I mean, we have to open it next September. We have to open the centers. Next January, we have to make the premium open. And that means we have to have a schedule. That means we have to have a design. Then we will continue to look after the trial in the legislature and in the middle term, but at the same time we will continue to do what we have to do for the daily and the next few months. And it must be borne in mind, indeed, that, through the system of educational concerts, the support with public funds of private centers, as you know, is regulated. And that's why we have 293/1987 Decree our Basque support. His fifth, 6th, and 9th. The articles in which the ends of the treaty are determined, the progress of instruction, but also duration and innovation at the same time. And not only this, but also that, we have the fundamental Organic Law 2/2006, where we are forced to follow a process. And here is his 116th, which is the article in words: "It is up to the autonomous communities to dictate the necessary rules for the development of the educational concert system." Egyptian pot had to. "The concert shall establish reciprocal rights and obligations with regard to the economic regime, duration, extension and termination of the same number of concerted school units, accountability, action plans and action on the basis of academic results obtained and other conditions subject to the regulatory provisions of the concert regime." In addition, article 116.3 states: "The Economic Concert will last at least six years in the case of Primary Education and four years in the rest of the cases. And these normative precepts also have their reflection in that Budget Act." In each class of teaching matters are determined by how many modules it is to support schools under the compact agreement of each education unit. And the 18th of our decree. as the article says, this economic module to support every unit of school ought to be like the cost of public instruction. As I said, the law of our budget reflects on article 25.1. In it the elements of the module are specified and their corresponding numbers are fixed as the fourth appendix to the law of each education. I think it's important to do this little review where the purpose of education is to place it in context. That is to say, the end of giving an educational service, with solid qualities and equity, addressed to all the students and to their families, to their children... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... the object of being an instrument of education, of quality and equity, directed by every pupil, and by their families, as an opportunity for the education of their children, to families, to those families who choose a bond under truce. For this reason, the educational concert is defined as the legal instrument by which private institutions hold themselves with public funds to impart levels of non-university education free of charge. An instrument of a conventional and (...) or bilateral nature, since these are agreements whereby the Administration undertakes certain commitments, which are already defined, and the Centre undertakes, for its part, to provide the relevant teaching free of charge. The termination of the Concert usually takes place by expiry of the term of duration, as is the case, without prejudice to the cases of renewal or extension. It cannot be denied that private schools, which observe the legal conditions, have a right to a treaty, though sufficient offer of fundamental instruction in public schools. And this also is said by a fundamental law, namely, that it is a fundamental law for us, because it is so by a law. However, this cannot be an objection to the following points. On the one hand, to lower the number of students in a compact college, and, on the other hand, to make a parallel distribution of the students by this change of the treaty between all the schools which are kept by public funds. The rights, therefore, of the administration and of the college of treaties, and of mutual obligations, are confined to the following laws: to apply the economic rule, the duration of the agreement, the extension, and offer the rest of the units that have been made, and the number and instruction of the other conditions. According to these regulations and procedures, the Administration must assign public funds within the limits indicated by the administration as a violation of the educational services of the treaty. The allocation is based on economic models per school unit, classroom and educational level set out in the Budget Act. And this doesn't turn around anymore. And they derive, in short, from what has to be paid for the teacher module, for the non-teacher module, for the operation and for what is also called the replacement of real investments. And they're defined that way, in these four blocks. And in these four blocks we have to help or finance on the basis of a series of years that are already defined, on the basis of a series of programs that are already defined. And, in answer to the question, it is nothing new, and so we have moved it in written response to various initiatives raised by your group, than the current concertation period set out in the order of 27 April of the 16th, modified by the order of 27 May 2020, which regulates the conditions for subscription and renewal of educational concerts for the school courses between 2016 and 17, and 2021-22. It ends in the course 2021-2022. To fill the sphere of rule in force, the Education Department is developing a new policy. It will therefore be renewed in education to private schools under compact, which will follow from the year after the next treaty, which will follow from the year of the year of the year 2022-23. The study work is based on the updates of economic modules and the concepts to which it is to be endured, and we are constantly in contact with the involved operators. However, this whole process is also... We need to get involved with the process we're talking about here and the government and all that process we're talking about with operators. So it's not easy, but that's what we're doing. And we agree that there are many of them, as you have mentioned, that there are a great number of stages of strength which ought to be developed by so much weakness, and the rate of birth to be considered. And in this sense, even in public schools, we already agree with the unions. And we are discussing what would be the model for future public schools. It will also mark what will be the future, and how we will treat the superfluous ones, but the changes of the more personal, the change of positions and changes of function. So we're involved in a very interesting process. Then we can see the rate of birth as a negative moment, but we want to possess or confirm it, as you have mentioned, because we think that education, euscal education, will be an important element in increasing the quality of education, and above all a system that can boast of its education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u96	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u97	Yes, thank you, chief physician, for the answer. I thought I was gonna get it, but no. Now I'm going to ask you the question in another way. In all these things, we agree on most of the things that you discuss. Logiko, we ought to manage the routine, but we are not talking about the routine, but about some treaties which will define for four and six years. And we can say a great deal against what the law says, but we don't do it against it. The regulations we have now. And therefore four and six years, as the treaties which will regulate the next four and six years, we are troubled that the agreement also is difficult with some of the agents. I will make the proposal in a very concrete way and, moreover, I say this to you with the proposal that we want to work on important consensus in the paper, important consensus in the future law. Important measures to ensure what I said in my first intervention in terms of equality... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ...important consensus in the paper, important consensus in the future law. Important measures to ensure what I said in my first intervention in terms of equality and equity: the Euskadi education system. Therefore, as it also shows, and that is the proposal that we want to make today, and that we will do – logically – through the motion that we are going to present, is that the Department of Education extend the educational concerts one or two courses, what is necessary to develop the agreement of the presentation, to have the new law and that, based on the new law, the new educational concerts that it touches to develop in Basque. That's the proposition we're making today: The Board of Education I repeat again to him, a year, a course, two treaties now established, to finish his education power, to become a new law, and to test the new treaties within this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u98	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u99	Mr Martínnez really (... that is to say, especially because it is an interpelation to compete and suggest. And for that, there are other figures, but I accept them. And as the proposition is, and as the hand is made open, so is the hand, so do I take that hand, even with all my good will. At the same time, we must make certain things. One, you have to see if that's possible from a legal point of view, but at the same time it's been an important distinction that we can't go against the law. So if we can't, then we can't. And I don't like it, and since we already have government cares, I don't want to improvise. We shall, then, examine whether such a figure would be possible or not with equipment and legal equipment. Bi. Lehenago komentatu dugun bezala, kontzeptu bat eabili dut: syntagmatic, allegia, this is what it is, a bilateral agreement. This means that we need an agreement between the two parties, which we will sign to develop these concerts. And I also say that there are a number of items, there are a number of issues that are moving to us from the different concerted educational centres, which have not been better suited since 2008-2009, a review that, perhaps, should also be considered. In other words, there are a number of issues that need to be addressed. There are a number of issues that, for example, there are teachers, teaching staff who are helping, teachers, teaching professionals in the field of special education, for example, which are not fully funded, which are also leading to a number of deficits, etc., etc., and so on. With which, I, the only thing I can tell you is that I welcome what your proposal is. What I am telling you is that we will take it into account from these two areas: one, from the legal point of view, whether it is possible or not. Two, whether the other party also understands that it is economically feasible or not. But most importantly: all that we are going to do, and that is the philosophy that I understand that you are moving here, has to be compatible with the agreement that is going to be adopted or with the legislative or regulatory development that we are going to have in the next two years. We agree entirely, because it is not only what we will agree here in Parliament when we are going to discuss the Education Act or the HH, hizkuntza hitzarmenaren inguruan, baizik eta hor egongo den garapena: adibidez, segregaziaren inguruan. We're working on Segregation already, but we've opened a process for the last two months. And in this process, this will ask for reflection. He'll order an interview. He'll ask for a discussion. And he will demand, also, some sort of agreement, some other institutions, as well as other social agents. So that we cannot quite agree with the various decisions which may be made for the future in years to come: everything must go at once, that we must carry it away, that we understand it so. It's not easy, like you said, but we've all got that big perspective, we're all thinking about it. And that's why we're gathering together, both with the compact schools and the officials of the public school, because they all constitute the public system. And because, between them, and overcoming these two legal views, these young men of our future are educating themselves. So, with your proposal, which you absolutely agree with. We'll see what we can do. The only thing I ask of you would be to go on with that optimistic attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u100	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The 15th point in the theme list: "The question is, Muriel Larre Lasoa, Popularo Group-Ciudad's parliamentary members of the planetal planeting, Housing and Transport Commander, concerning the suppression of the present station." Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u101	Hello. Thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselors. Look, my question has to do with that, at the beginning of the year, ETS awarded the demolition of the Zarautz station building for an amount of nine million to Amenabar constructions. And the question was: What opinion does the councilman deserve to eliminate the current station of Zarautz, without preserving the building of the station, which is part of the Zarauztarra architecture?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Reply... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... without preserving the station building, which is part of Zarauztarra architecture?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Larrea, Zarautz Station currently has the highest demand for travellers from the Kostaldea area to the west of Donostia-San Sebastián, and it is expected that this demand will experience a significant increase in users with the commissioning in the coming years of the railway variant of Donostia-San Sebastián, which involves, as you know, the opening of three new stations, improving the accessibility of the areas of Benta Berri and Centro-La Concha. And while the route of the railway in Zarautz has been permeable in recent times, with actions such as the suppression of the crossing at the level and the construction of the lower passage of Santa Clara, the urban development of the municipality requires the adoption of new measures that will improve, among other issues, the connection between the north and the south of the municipality, in particular the area of Salberdin currently expanding. The planned railway actions to improve this situation could not be achieved from a technical point of view, maintaining the building of the current station. And this is the fundamental reason why the construction of a new one has been proposed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u105	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u106	Mr Arriola, in Zarautz no one understands the need to tear down the building of the train station, instead of adapting it to the current times. A building according to the historical environment of the village and the transit from the 19th to the 20th century. One of the golden epochs of the Zarauztarra organism. No one understands his next demolition, he is imminent, except the PNV government of the municipality and the Basque government. It has had to be the largest non-governmental organization in Spain in defense of the heritage, Hispania Nostra who considers the Zarautz Station building one of the 1,000 monuments in danger in Spain. Don't you see it that way? It is also said by the director of the Basque Railway Museum, which is one of the people with older... one of the highest eminences at national and European level on the subject. In any case, it is regrettable that those who have the duty and obligation to protect our heritage and our history do not do so and it is an association with national and international recognition that takes the initiative to protect our monumental and natural heritage, including Zarautz Station on the Red List of Heritage in danger. Look, 9 million euros are going to be spent on the demolition of a building that is part of the Zarauztarra architecture of the 19th century. Avoid this for no reason and rethink the project. It is more important to bury the tracks as they pass through the village than to take down this station. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u108	Mrs Larrea, the construction of this new station in Zarautz responds to the need to offer an efficient and accessible railway infrastructure to citizens. Something that is not possible with the maintenance of the current building. Building which, by the way, retains only some elements of the original façade on a timely basis. Nor is it an object of protection, since it is not included in the Catalog of the Historical Architectural Heritage of the Basque Cultural Heritage Center or in the list of buildings of Historical Artistic and Archaeological Heritage of Gipuzkoa. And as I have already pointed out, it shows shortcomings in accessibility and railway safety, such as, for example, that users in the direction of Zumaia must cross the road by a step at the level to access the central platform. In addition, municipal planning envisages the main pedestrian and cycling connection between the north of the city, and the future development of the Salberdin area with almost 1,000 new homes, through the development of a large lower step in the location of the current station building. A step that can only be located in this environment and that is not compatible with the current station. Instead, a new station will be built completely integrated into the environment and with quality standards of this century, not to mention those referring to accessibility, gender perspective and railway safety. We are talking about a project that has a budget of 8.1 million euros in civil works financed jointly by the Department of Transport, through ETS, and the City of Zarautz, thanks to the agreement signed between the two institutions, and in which our Department will contribute 66.7% of the budget, and the City of Zarautz the remaining 33.3%. And at this point I would like to remind you that the draft was approved by the Zarautz plenary without any vote against. In short, the construction of a new station aims to improve the safe and accessible connection between the platforms and the lobby area to which the increase in demand foreseen by the Bilbao-Donostia line will affect, especially in the Zarautz-Donostia section, once the railway variant of the topo is put into service. Mrs. Larrea, be a little serious. I am criticized for an action that improves accessibility, urban permeability, which costs €8.1 million and is financed jointly between the City Council and the Department. And you tell me about Zarautz's underground, which costs 150 million euros. What are we left with?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u109	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 16th point in the theme list: "The question is, "Unai Fernandez de Betoño Saenz de Lacuesta EH Team Members of Parliament for the planetal Planting, Housing, and the chairman of the Transportal Department, with regard to the application which will affect the project of public interest in the integrated regional organisation." Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u110	Yeah. Good morning. Chief Arriola, one of your most important laws has been transferred to you last week, the Order Act of the Land, and you have not said a word until now. Do you think it's all right to impose a project of high-level public interest into the integration of the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u111	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Fernandez de Betoño, this is not a question of imposition, as you put it, but of the order... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Fernandez de Betoño, this is not a question of imposition, as you put it, but of Euskadi's territorial system integrating, as is already the case with 11 other autonomous communities, a specific figure relating to projects of general interest, in this environmental case, which has a specific regulation of terms and corresponding to the social good that it wants to achieve or preserve. We understand that this figure, agile but also guarantor, is necessary, while in parallel our territorial order adapts to the new and important environmental challenges to which we have to face, with tools such as the Territorial Sectoral Plan for Waste Management Infrastructures, whose elaboration is to be launched next year, within the Basque Government, under the impetus of the Department of Economic Development, Sustainability and Environment, in coordination with our department.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u114	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u115	Chief Arriola, you've been changed by Tapia (... ) One of the most important laws, from the back door, and in a very strange manner. And so far you have been mute. I think the neglect of your duty is in front of an exercise. We think you're refusing to integrate the territory into these projects. And how will it be from now on? The macro project, according to the capricious opinion of Tapia, and the integrated organization of the country. Then you organize Congress, two weeks ago, as the Basque City, was fine, but the ODS up there ends of permanent development. And in the end of the 113 permanent development, it is said that it is necessary to have the integration and participation of the plan. And these are just antipodes. The system of planning is, or rather, obliged to deviation, and to be effected in an isolated manner by the project of desertion. And the only defense you have is to say that in other autonomys there are similar figures. Yes, yes. There's a model in the Andalucia for golf courses. There's a kind of arcagoin figure for the logistic platform and making the crew stations. That's the kind of project you have as a model? A figure similar to that which they created in Madrid, you know what for? Adelson's Eurovegas to make room for this project. Is that what you're thinking? Then you tell us about Navarre. In the Navarre to make Genduzaiin, he used it to make urbanistic peloto, at AHT's (... ) It was used to make every stop. And it's been used to build other golf subsidies, including the Bastanta era. By the way, the Bazan era was out of our programme. So what we're asking you to do is if there's a problem with the retractable energy projects, do your job. At the moment, there is still a sectorial plan in the land of the eolicians. And they say you're getting better and you're expanding, aren't you? In order to make a new scyctorial plan round about the reconnaissance, it is about to finish what is always happening. Get it over with. Do your job. Now you've announced that you're going to make a tractor plot around the ruins. Well, perfect. Do your job. Why do you need these projects then? What we're asking you to do is do your job. Chief Arriola, organize your territory, remind you of your organization, it belongs to your section.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u116	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u117	Mr Fernandez de Betoño, as I have already mentioned, the figure of projects of higher public interest is not unheard of. This is a widespread formula in Spain. You used to say that by setting some examples to your convenience. And that, by the way, works normally and without controversy. In addition, you know that these types of projects are not going to be developed arbitrarily in Euskadi. Their approval will reside not in a particular department or in a particular councillor, but in the Governing Council. And its processing will be participatory and guaranteed. Projects of higher public interest have to comply with their approval procedure with different steps, in which information of municipal intervention is required. And they also require a binding report from the Planning Commission of the Basque Country Territory. Has the Land Management Act been amended through the Environmental Administration Act? Indeed. This has been done on a parliamentary initiative, with the agreement of the two departments concerned. There is no imposition. But it is also that one law amends another law is the usual practice of parliamentarianism. The next state housing law will most likely amend the Urban Leases Act. Our Housing Law, which you voted in favour, amended the Soil Law. And budget laws often change, on many occasions, sectoral laws. You also say that projects of higher public interest are an attack on the municipal authority. Look, I'm not going to go further now on the difference in criteria they have in dealing with this same issue in Navarre and in Euskadi. You gave an example of Navarra. But you will understand that it is powerfully attracting attention, and more considering that your party managed for four years the portfolio of Rural Development, Environment and Local Administration. And they did not take any measures to curb this alleged loss of municipal autonomy. Why didn't they? But it is that the president of Eudel himself has recently assured that we are not facing a figure that erodes municipal autonomy. Mr Fernandez de Betoño, I personally have a respect for municipal autonomy. And I know her well, because I was mayor for 15 years, that is, as it is said colloquially, I was a cook before he was a friar. I know of the integrated planning and the fact that there are a number of infrastructures of general interest, such as railways or roads, to name a few, which (...) within the framework of municipal decision-making, and I know the importance for mayors that there are clear rules that offer legal certainty. Sometimes the public interest goes beyond the municipal sphere, although sometimes this may be uncomfortable. But I also believe that the municipalities will be able to be very demanding with the projects and defend that they are well-founded. And they will be able to count on the tools that this law gives them. In short, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, the model of country that I defend is not that of a confederation of autistic kingdoms of taifas, but that of a community that lives together responsibly, assuming and responding in solidarity to the collective challenges of the present and the future.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u118	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The seventeenth point on the subject list... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... response in solidarity to the collective challenges of the present and the future.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u119	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "I'm asking you, Laura Garrido Knörr Euscal, the popular Group of the Ciudadans, a member of the Medical Department of the Medical Department, about the technical LABI." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u120	Thank you, Mr. President. Osasun salilburua, counselor, the evil called technical LABI – and I say wrong because it was conformed with..., starting with its coordinator, by people who had not a very technical profile – has been replaced by a political mini-organ that you lead in making decisions regarding the pandemic. The Urkullu Government has already pointed out ways when at the beginning of the pandemic the Advisory Council on Infectious Diseases, a specific body created ad hoc for situations such as the one we are living in, was not wanted. We're in a complicated situation. We're still leading the contagion ranking. This is a general tonic. And in the meantime, this Government affords itself the luxury of giving up the opinions of experts, of whom they know. At a time when, counselor, the classrooms are confined, the students at home, the parents assuming responsibilities that do not belong to them, the Department of Health changing the guidelines and giving contrary guidelines – one day one and the next, as I told you, the opposite. The primary care overflowed, saturated and understaffed, with a structural problem that we dragged from before the pandemic, and now, no doubt, has been aggravated. With a tracking network that doesn't give enough and that even derives its work to primary care that, as I say to you, "don't know, doesn't answer." Faced with this very complicated situation, as you yourself defined it this morning, will you continue to afford yourself the luxury of not counting on the opinion of those who really know, the experts, when making decisions?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u121	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u122	President of the legislature, thank you. Mrs Garrido, I really think you should review either your sources of information or the veracity of some of the information that comes to you. Among other things, the Advisory Council on Emerging Infectious Diseases will be created for situations like the one we are living in. You'll see you're wrong. Look, there are two alternatives. The A that, indeed, and I told you last Monday in the Health Commission, I do not see, the technical LABI does not lack people expert in respiratory infectious diseases, nor experts in microbiology, nor lack of experts in public health, nor lack of... Nor do they constitute it only in the offices of the Department and Osakidetza, who, by the way, are, of course, knowledgeable in the health field. And the B, that I don't know what sense it has to appear regularly before the Health Commission to answer your questions, if then completely ignores the answers. I told you last Monday, and I repeat this today, that the new technical LABI does not lack people who are experts in respiratory infectious diseases, nor microbiology experts, nor public health experts, nor is it made up solely of charges from the Osakidetza Department. Because the new technical LABI responds to different needs than last year, and I told him. Now we know the nature of the virus and how it gets infected. We know how to prevent it and we have tools for it. But the technical LABI must also analyse the effect that the measures it proposes have on health care, on economic, labour, social, cultural, educational or leisure activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u124	Look, counselor, I'd like to start with a clarification. When you appear in the Health Committee, you simply detail and reread the data that we all have the opportunity to view and analyse in the relevant epidemiological bulletins. And he's not answering. Look, I've been asking you many times, and I'm going to ask you again, about the vaccination of sensitive groups: what about non-institutionalized grade 3 people with disabilities? That you never say anything, neither in the Commission, nor in this rostrum, nor when you speak publicly, and this Member is repeatedly asking her, and I think this is an issue that is now worrying these parents. Look, you also have two alternatives: to be advised or not to be advised. And it is clear that you have taken the second option: do not be advised by those who know. But I'm not saying it. It is said by authorized voices who are cornered, because you have decided throughout this pandemic to surround yourself with your guard of (corps?) And do not heed the opinion of those who really know, counselor. And that's why you waver, you say one thing and the next day the opposite. You, not many weeks ago, and I'm not retreating to the beginning of the pandemic, you were denouncing the covid passport, and then you were your top defenders, as you also did with the mask. Today the lehendakari telling us that he masks for everything, when Mrs. Murga told us that the masks were worthless. Another issue: the tracking network. While other autonomous communities have already requested the reinforcement of military personnel, will you request it? Because it would help cut off the transmissible virus. Or are you going to do as with the experts, ore the experts, and here be guided by their phobias, their mistrusts and their prejudices, waste of necessary resources?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u125	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u126	Mrs. Garrido, you really don't listen to me. Because I answer everything, and you, in the second round, ask the same question again. And the answer is the same logically. And besides, if you sit down, sit down at the moment and don't stay at the beginning of the pandemic. Of course I repeat mandatory masks again. Look, I'm not going to quote the whole tech LABI, I'm just going to tell you the profiles you say there isn't. José Luis Quintas, Deputy Health Advisor, is a public office, but before he is, he has been and is a well-known health technician and manager. Itziar Larizgoitia, director of Public Health, who before she was, was already a recognized WHO expert. By the way, our voice in the Public Health Commission of the National Health System, a... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... Larizgoitia, director of Public Health, who before she was, was already a recognized WHO expert. By the way, our voice in the Public Health Commission of the National Health System, a (...) technician whose capacity and criterion nobody discusses. Gustavo Cilla, specialist in microbiology and head of service at our hospital. José Antonio Iribarren, specialist in infectious diseases and head of service of our hospital. Itziar (...), specialist in infectious diseases in the field of pediatrics. Iñaki Berraondo, yes, former Health Advisor, but he is the person who has been analyzing since his appearance in the previous legislature the fight against the pandemic, with knowledge, in addition, extensive in epidemiology and family medicine. Rosa Pérez, director general of Osakidetza, who before he was, lived in the first and terrible wave as medical director of the Hospital of Basurto. And the rest, people related to security, sociology, communication. People who provide other visions when assessing the impact that prevention measures have on citizenship. Isn't your voice authorized? I'm sorry, but don't disqualify these people. Do not disqualify, because it seems that the only authorized voice is that which you seem to know and not another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The 18th point in the subject list: "I'm asking you, Madia Martíne, the lawmaker of Misto, who's a member of the Misto team, who's got the third dose of COVID-19 of the COVID-19, and of the approximations he uses." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u128	Good morning again, President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen. Since the beginning of this pandemic, I have been critical of how the Basque Government has handled information and communication about the health crisis, the measures taken, the reasons for its application on vaccination, the different vaccines and immunity associated with each other, and many other issues that we have been talking about repeatedly. This same week we witnessed the confusion associated with the use of the covid certificate. In most cases, complaints by hoteliers turned into vigilantes, with cross-talks on the validity of the measure, on the validity in time of the certificate in question. In this context, this booster dose is particularly important and will be inoculated to more than 40. Also know what degree of immunity it brings. That's why I'm asking. That is, with a desire to know, with a desire for you to explain to us what are the plans of the Basque Government and the deadlines with which you work to inoculate the third dose of the vaccine against COVID-19 to people over 12 years of age.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u129	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u130	President of the legislature, again, good morning. As you well know, because we have shared it on different occasions, the vaccination plans and deadlines in Euskadi have been determined throughout this year 2021 by the availability of vaccines, which is no longer a concern, and by the criteria set out in the Public Health Commission of the Vaccination Strategy against COVID-19. These are criteria that are periodically renewed according to the evolution of the pandemic, scientific research and the availability of vaccines. And it was just yesterday when the Public Health Commission set the priorities and criteria for moving forward in the administration of the booster dose to new groups.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u132	Mrs Sagardui, who else, who less, we are all aware that vaccines against COVID-19 are not vaccines for use. They've been developed on an accelerated basis. There has been an intense public debate on the effectiveness of each other, on the side effects they could cause, on the validity of the immunity they generate, and also on the number of doses needed to make it as much as possible. They are doubts that have not been resolved, something which, I have no doubt, has discouraged many people from injecting the vaccine that the Administration considered appropriate or the one that it had at any given time. The information has not been clear and precise in this as in other matters. There are more issues that continue to be related to the issue that I have just outlined and that are also the responsibility of the Administration. Vaccination is a voluntary exercise, as our legal framework recognizes and, as far as I know, it is still a pandemic. Consequently, it does not seem fair to limit the movement and social relations of these people to whom it is also pointed out as guilty of the sixth wave when they are not, and also as a risk to citizenship. He's deeply irresponsible on his part. It is mandatory vaccination what you are doing, jumping all the steps to which it obliges our legal framework. And a few minutes ago he announced to us, moreover, his intention to expand the places to which people without a covid certificate will be prevented. This was said by the Lehendakari in his previous speech. Even his Deputy Health Adviser, Mr. Quintas, has provided evidence in this regard, stating in an interview on Radio Euskadi that the imposition of the covid certificate is a civic issue and not a health issue. When you yourself have defended just the opposite. What are we left with, Mrs. Sagardui? Do you mean by this that the meaning of the covid passport is not for the social good, but to keep them under control? Because there's a difference of opinion here. And here, in this very House, they have just told us that they intend to extend the imposition of the covid certificate to more activities. Will they do it with football stadiums, for example? Last Wednesday, a headline summed up the moment we were living in: "Pase covid from today for almost everything." The next headline will be, "Pase covid for everything." It begins to sound, and much more so, the measure they are taking as a control measure. And there is no longer any doubt that it is a compulsory vaccination based on the violation of the rights of specific groups, in this case, of unvaccinated persons, whatever the reason. By the way, why give the covid passport, for example, a one-year term since the last dose was inoculated? The European Union defends nine months. That is what the European Union is defending. In France it is valid for seven months. What is the scientific criterion that supports this one-year period here in the Basque Country? What is the scientific evidence for this to be so? Are you aware of the distrust and insecurity that this dance of figures generates, this dispersion of criteria? In Vox we are far from your line of limitation of movements, from the use of the covid certificate for violating fundamental rights, and arbitrariness is not good counselor, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u133	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u134	Mrs. Martinez, are you aware of the speech you have made? Are you aware of the allegation you made? Because it hasn't been clear to me, or it doesn't want to be clear to me. Are you an antivacuum? [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... Are you aware of the speech you've made? Are you aware of the allegation you made? Because it hasn't been clear to me, or it doesn't want to be clear to me. Are you an antivacuum? Yes, listen to yourself, and you have done you little favor, and you do if that is the position of your party, this society and this pandemic. Really, make him look at it. Listen to yourself and you'll see it, because I don't believe what you've said, if so far you haven't noticed. And there is a very clear scientific discussion for everyone, and less evil that society in Euskadi has it very-very clear, which you should learn. But, I will answer your question, because it was neither a covid certificate nor fundamental rights, which you must also know more than the High Court of Justice and the Supreme Court, of course. Euskadi will continue to vaccinate. And he's continuing to vaccinate with the criteria set yesterday by the Public Health Commission. Not because we have always done so, but because from the Basque Government we have reiterated before the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System the need to accelerate as much as possible the vaccination of children under the age of 12, when it had not yet begun, as the doses of remembrance for the population. All vaccines have an effectiveness measured in time. And all the vaccines; the flu one you put on every year. We also shared the decision to administer this third dose to those who injected the two doses of AstraZeneca, regardless of their age, because a high immunity was originally expected but with a longer duration. This is what has happened with Pfizer or Moderna, which still have higher periods between doses and towards the third dose. At present, 73% of people over the age of 60 are vaccinated with booster doses. And we have a plan to finish it soon. Why? Because, fortunately, they've understood it better than you. From this moment on, we can move to the group of 50 to 59, precisely when the six mandatory months of waiting have been fulfilled since the second dose was administered to them; established by the scientists, by the experts, not by the counselor. In short, we agree with those who received two doses of AsstraZeneca with the decision to give them the third dose. And we agree with the decision that the others will go down according to their age groups. At this moment, we've put a third dose or a dose of memories above 70% of people who are over 60 years old. And we'll keep going for the next few weeks with the rest of us. Fortunately, our fellow-citizens have understood well enough that it is necessary to use all the instruments we have, and among them one of the best; vaccine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "The Interition, Jason Aguirre Gartanodia EH Collectors to the Chief of Politics and Language Department, about the right subsidies of the COVIDs to ease the damages caused by media. " Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. And good afternoon to you too, Mr. Zupiria. Even if it's paradox, I'll begin to talk about what I won't talk about, because I don't talk about some big newspapers, the biggest ones, and some radios, about the covida, the greatest part of the right five million dollars that your department gave me, not all of them. I won't talk about a few of those media, even from the Industrial Department, taking another big scholarship game. I won't talk about it, even if it's the same newspaper, or if it's the whole or the most important publicity institution. No, I'll leave it there, we could talk about it for a long time. To-day I come to speak of other media. I'm here to discuss digital papers, magazines, radios, and, above all, eucalyptic media. And as an image is worth more than a thousand words, I come to you with a comparative image: It shows how the separation was made. It's not a graphic, but it's very graphic. On the one hand, here's what's been picked up by the biggest media: five million euros, all of them. Of these the eucalyptic media have only received 6,6%; that is the proportion. On the other hand, local media, telebists, radios, digital media and magazines have taken this. I don't know if it looks good, do I? That's what they got. And that's where... zero. Zero. Five million, zero. That's the proportion. And that's the way they all stand. And, of course, empty boxes. It's very difficult to understand that, Mr. Zupiria, there's a great deal of balance between them and each other. We tried to understand, though. And we thought that your department, if it were the Board of Education, and that it was covida, and that if you offered a scholarship to the students who are having trouble with it, then how Mr. Bilartz would do his division. Money, or scholarships, to whom would they be? For students who have the most income, or for those who have the smallest income? But let's say that he's not only a quantum, but he's also trying to divide these scholarships according to the quantum. In the case of students, there may be a criterion of rewarding. On the media, on the other hand, in a system of communication like ours, what would be our reward? Wouldn't it be a criterion to make Euskuke? This example, then, is of no use to us in understanding what you have done. We still can't understand. Of course we've even played the procession, the key we understand better than we understand, because we think we'll find it there. This decree of five million from the European provinces is derived from a decree made in 2019. The press of many European states is in a very difficult position, in a weak financial situation, and... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... It comes from a project made in 2019. The press of many European states is in a very difficult position, in a weak state of finance, and, owing to the covida, it is still weaker, because the sales are lowered, and the publicity has been much diminished in the daily press and radios. For all this, the euscal communication system is also in danger, like other media in Europe. So you say in your decree, and we agree with that. Even when you say that a democratic society requires strong and professional media to fight against uninformation. Absolutely. Even if you say that we people need quality information in a reliable, professional and concrete way, especially this historic and especially important moment, this cursed pandemia. And I'm starting to think about where I got this pandemy, and I get that professional information that is so important to my daily life. And, of course, I get it from these great media, even from our public media. But I live in Durango, and I want to know, for instance, what influence covida is being produced in it, or Abadoulo, or Eldorixon, or again-the whole evening. And I want this information so important to me that I have a right to keep it. But this is the only means of communicating with me that has guaranteed this right, that is, the whole pandemy has been offered by the Anboto communicative means; A reliable, professional media that gives me detailed information and also supports me. And not only that, as a means of communication with new seasons, I receive every moment the most important data and news that I want and want. Or else, I turn on the website and the paper's (... ), I wait till it is barren, till it is at home. Is not Anbothus and the rest of the eucalyptic media filling the philosophy of the decree? Aren't the closest trustworthy, the professionals themselves? And haven't these local media been in loss for publicity? Aren't they in danger too? Isn't that part of our communication system as well? But you've decided to feed the big sharks on that starving system alone. But on a ecosystem, sharks are needed, yes, but even small fish: the anchovies, the sardines, and even the smaller. Otherwise, you lose that ecosystem. You haven't looked in the long run. You don't have long eyes. You didn't take care of the ecosystem, only (there's nothing else? ) You have watched for the widest, and teeth, which are the sharpest teeth. One of them, when you don't decide others, you've decided to hand it over to the press system, to the daily press and to the radio, and not to all of them. A lot of local media are weekly press, but they have a web page, or a network like every channel on the Telegram. But they're out of friendship. Their ability to modernize isn't that you didn't reward them. So digital papers, not even published in a heavy paper structure, are left outside. An historic magazine like light, though digitally, every day, is outside because it's a magazine. On the other hand, the written daily press has been edified by the digital audience. The TV centers are outside, because they're not the press, the radio, even though they're part of the euscal communication system. I'm out of the radio, too, even though I'm just going to give Biscay, Aruba, and Gipuzia. Why, Mr. Zupiria? Why did he stay outside? On the other hand, scholarships have been distributed according to each audience: Irision. The criterion may be all right, and some of the least results must be demanded, of course, but which measures these audiences? And how? Do we have a system of our own, a system that will measure all media in equality? Do we have that, Mr. Chief? Not really. And for that purpose, in the polls made by a private company, and not in measurements, which are not the same. You should have based on polls in the polls made by the CIES company. Does this company measure small media and big media alike? Is that possible? He makes polls, paid by the members of the community, and according to their interests. Does that guarantee equality? Is it Transparent? We look at each other and we don't understand. Yes, or yes, Mr. Zupiria, or do we understand? But will you explain to us the real reason why the distribution of money is thus made? Or don't tell me if you don't, we know and we know why it was. Do you think this was the best division of the country? But this is the question we want to ask you, and we asked you in interpelation. Do you intend to make a policy for strengthening our own media system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u138	Congressmen, Mrs. Aguirre, all good days. I'd say, because I believe it, you know, you've been making town policies to strengthen a Eukadin's communication system for years. However, I admit it's not an easy matter because it's a matter of challenges and questions, here and in the world. Not many of them know what stage to move on during the years and decades following the eucalyptic media. But a thousand challenges... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... in what stage the eucalyptic media will have to move on for years and decades. However, I shall insist upon a thousand challenges, which we may take as challenges of the world and of the Eucharistic media. Globalization. In this season of glossation, information has no borders. There is hardly any sign of language in the image world. As for what happens around us, we have every moment a chance to know what happens in the wide world. And not just the opportunity, we want to know. Two, technological revolution. Anyway, at any moment, we could be informed everywhere. We have in our pocket the easiest and most likely access to information. Listen, we can see and read all the information we want. And many media, including, many of our media, have their technological leaps. And we think that's the time to do it or that's the time to do it. Three, tops and new media. The media sector is getting more and more liquid. The newspapers are no longer just paper, they are also founders of visual content, or the radio isn't just 24-hour programming. It's the founders and repositorys of Podcasts. Great platforms of the world's level have been introduced in the market of conventional television by the attention and time of the spectators. Four, consumption change in the manners. our consumption, and especially the youngest, takes place more and more by new devices. The auditions are moving from traditional technology to the new devices. And the time that the population spends in communication with media is changing. Every single day we're connected. Five, social networks. Social media is helpful because it's a tool for spreading media events and also a way to expand their content. But in the same way the customs of the introduction of information are changing, and the citizen does not so much regard the source of information as the content. Six, journalists, and deprestiating media campaigns are visible, even hidden. It's a world-wide phenomenon starting from the United States to the east of Europe. Seven, all kinds of information. That which comes to us from the nets has perhaps no author; we do not know whether it is or is not a contracted information. And unfortunately, many media have to take a long time to confirm and deny the contents of traffic in mass. Eight, the formation of future professionals. How are we going to train and train future journalists and professionals if we don't know what's going to be like in the future? Are they going to have to know more about technicals and algorithms than looking for news and counting, do they need to know how to write well? Are they going to defeat the language of the images? Should they develop critical thought? Do they need to know how to identify citizen interests and thirsts? Nine, a business model. No one knows which media are the ingredients of a business model that will be profitable to them. In the papers, the paper sells less and less. In any media, publicity won't guarantee the income. The subscription systems are getting more and more general, but how much are we ready to pay our people? Where is the balance of mixed standard between subscription and freedom? Ten, alliances between media. Bidibility and profitableness are in many cases in the air, which may lead to another representation or planning of industry, especially in the small ranges and places. In so far as they are companies or entities, there may be room enough to build alliances between them, even if each of them should create its product and correct its audience. And finally, eleven, the future of the eucalyptic media, as far as the life and normalization of the cradle is concerned. All the ten challenges must be maintained by the eucalyptic media, and moreover by the eucalyptus. Undoubtedly, we need a strong system of eucalyco information and communications, on the one hand, because we have to guarantee the right of receiving information from the citizens, and, on the other hand, because they are a key to the proceedings of the diminished languages, in our case, the content of euphora. As this general scene is, it is difficult for a government to strengthen the territory of media, and to make it clear that politics must be developed. Anyway, in answer to your question, yes, it's difficult, it's just crazy to build a Eukadin, information, entertainment, and communication system. It has a system of media, composed of public and private agents, of euplania, eddyology, and various editorial lines, composed of societies, lands, entertainments, general information, or specialisation, of every moment, of everyday or periodical tradition. One of the strongest foundations of that system is EIB. Not only by its measures and means, or by the consent which it receives from society or professionality, but partly because it makes it possible to have a book of its own, and partly because it can work as a tractor for other Eucharist mediaes. On the other hand, as a community, we have our role in assigning radio frequencyes and licenses to local digital television. Language is subject to several lines of politics to the subject of media. We've come from the preceding law from the Basque Heads' Club, New York, the Three Modal Forums, the site and initiatives. In those moments, the concerns of the eucalyptic media, the deontological code, the measurements, the publicity, the scholarship system, and the innovation. And just around that table, we made a special effort to stabilize the sector during the first legislation. And that was the result of the agreement for a new model of funding, which is very well rated by the sector, and will produce some improvements for the next few years. According to this model, AMANDY helps national media, The Foru Indunda has access to history, regional and local media... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... By the way, I'm helping national media, The Foru Indunda, the media of history, local areas and local media. And, in order to complete these calls, the language of politics contributes to him every year, every year, to the malcontents. And the fund funding for them has increased for the last four years. Thus in the total of 2021, 7.7 million; 7.750.214 euros have been assigned to finance the eucalyptic media, and we have supported 78 eucalyptic media in 2021. In the middle term, we want to encourage the site of innovation, as explained at the beginning, for the area of media must respond to a serious transformation. In addition, in order to promote the presence of the eucalyptus, the media, which are chiefly published in the Spanish, have, moreover, a annual appeal, a million of their own. And this year, it's up to our department, in the name of the whole Eusk0, to run a live five million dollars' subsidy in newspapers and radios that have most access to the Euskal Autonomy Store, because of the covida effect. Besides, I think we should appreciate the investment that AKY makes in advertising as a whole. And before summer, we realized that this year, by publicity, we wouldn't equal the level of investment we had made last year. For financial media finances, if there is no other assistance, it is an important source of publicity, directly connected with the financial funding of media in all Europe, according to their audience. That's the way I can say, at least, 150 media got some income this year, on the way to AKM, advertising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u139	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u140	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Zupiria, when I was speaking to you first, I saw that you never received any note. And I thought: "Or the deterioration is very great, or does not respond to all the questions I have asked him." And I think that's the second one. Well, maybe you'll remember what it was that asked, but you haven't noticed it in the answer he gave you. You did mention all those challenges. And, yes, absolutely. I believe that the media are in that eucalyptic press, trying to keep that challenge. They're working on it. They're poor, yes, but they're smart. And very professional, committed. And above all, worthy. And to be dignified, you need protection. And you said, yes, they did. I don't know how much money. Ya, ya. But we're talking about the covida and some help to relieve the damage that has happened. And you confirmed your judgment. You said, well, you should give it to those who have most audiences, first of all, quantum and quantum criteria. And I think that there is something to be protected by it, even in those special subsidies. And then, it's quantum, but it's paradoxical, because if they're most audiences, they might be in the best condition, don't they? logically. And I believe that those who are in the most vulnerable condition will need more help than those who have such good audiences. I don't know, from my logic, maybe it's not the right logic. In my opinion, this decree, as I see, is a stage suit, a dress, some media, and in the meantime you've left others naked. You've stripped off the Basque media. It's just a secret how it's done, to the extent of some media. It's injust. It's very unfair, but we won't get involved in injustice. Let's look forward to it. And, as a village, do you think, strategically, your criterion is appropriate, for instance, to share these helps? Like the village, is this gonna help us? If we want a Basque village, if we want a solid ecosystem, will that help? Is this how we keep the eupscal communication system? Like I said, the damage is done. Now the question is: How? What do we do to fix this? If it be the will, I believe there is an opportunity to defend the other media that are part of this system, and especially the eucalyptic media. And that's what we're asking you to do. Well, today is a question, but, well, the request will be correct. And I think even the eucalyptic media agree with this: If they want to survive, they need a solution. And there must be a balance on the main system, as I have said, some big fish, but there must be small for survival. So I ask you again, or I ask you: Make the steps, the necessary steps, to build a strong eucaline communication system. Because I don't think so. You say we have a system. I don't think that's the system this town needs. So let us use the public money we have to build, strengthen, and above all to satisfy our wants and our rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u142	Congressman, Mrs. Aguirre. I respect the view you don't have the media system, but I don't agree. [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-17.u143	Congressman, Mrs. Aguirre. I respect the view you don't have the media system, but I don't agree. And I have given you an account of the nicest nations we have discussed in order to ensure the stability of the media in our community. It's my opinion, you have yours. I don't... I think it's an eucalyptic media that doesn't belong to departments for subsidies. I gave you the data, which will serve you or not. I gave you the data. And, too much of them, we've had funds and scholarships to them, and we'll have them in the Euskon and the rest of the Basque organizations. And that's how it's gonna be, because it's supposed to be like this. The Euscanic media are a support to the citizens who want to get information about it, and who want entertainment, and that is why we owe them, this society and the parliamentary society, the subservience they all receive with money. I believe that the system of media goes further into this community, and especially at this time, where it has been very difficult, other media have accompanied them in a singular manner. And that's in the name of fun, from the Cultural Department, with that $5 million scholarship we've managed. And I don't have much more to say. I think I've explained your criteria. I can see you don't agree with my judgment. I respect your position, I have shown you what we have done and why we have done it, and the public is what all the media get, year by year, in this community, that he comes to law, and we all know him. And we'll continue to do what's in our power, from the fun and other institutions, from the cute villages, to the Basque, Basque, Basque, the Basque People, to make a system of media in our community. Thank you. The president said: Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at one o'clock in the afternoon and at forty-eight.
