ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u0	Good morning, everyone. I'll start the entire Union. I remember the parliamentary Estatilliz Larrate with the vote in his team's spokesman. Please be quiet. And the third point is that the third point in the subject's list is left for another. First point in theme list: "H Collect the bill of law made by the parliamentary teams to form the Euscal Council of the Elders. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the documentation where you've been disoriented, so we'll just start arguing. On the side... Is it? Anyone else? [[Berber]] So you have the word, Mrs. Aguirre, representative of the EH Collector, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u1	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. How beautiful it will be, how beautiful it is to be public euscal television, because it hasn't always been that way. I don't know what it's like in this country, but I think it's 50 years ago, so I don't know if you all remember, but what we're worth above 50 remember is that there were only two chains on TV when we were kids, right? Number one TV chain and UHF. Not very amusing from a child's point of view, and both chains, of course, of youthfulness. Then we knew the creation of ETV. ETB turned it all over and showed us there was something about the Basques. After that, private televisions came back and multiplied the Spanish televisors' offer. And with them there was an invention: The drone. And it wasn't a joke, it was a great technology progress, really a revolution. There was no need to get up from the couch to change the chains and make it easy to jump from one channel to another, so that the fidelity of a television station was not connected with comfort. We audiences became more active and more active and our ability to choose was in our hands. The emissaries, however, were not in our power. It may be easier on the radio, but the television technology is much more complicated and especially expensive, its emission has been in the hands of great government and private corporations. They've been watching the monopoly of appreciative emissions. But today, with new technology, things have changed a lot. For instance, they sent me at once. For instance, I can get into a social network, push it, and start running straight into the entire world. And when I say it to the whole world, it's the whole world. So, I don't know, the American Basques who are still out of bed may be watching. And, well, a warm goodbye from here. So this is where I can describe what's going on right here. For instance, as Mr. Erkorek is speaking to the President, we can see him directly, and in front of us there are lawyers and Socialists and popular groups, and here the members of my party are greeted by the company of the Basque People; And I doubt whether what I am doing now is right or not, I do not know what the regulation of this legislature says. In fact, when it was accepted, I think it was 2011 years ago, you couldn't predict that this kind of situation was so developed that social networks weren't yet social. So this is an example to show how the world of vision has changed... Well, I'm gonna give it away because I don't know, well, there are some people there, but I'm gonna cut off the emission because it's hard to be like that. This is an example of how the world of vision has changed in a very short time. At the present day such media, traditional media are communicative, and it is very easy to see the consumption of audible devices with this kind of device. And in the Basque society it's getting bigger and bigger. On the other hand, we spend 14 hours a day in front of screens, 7 Internets, 2 hours and a half social networks. Half of the Basques... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... We spend 14 hours a day before screens, 7 Internets, and 2 hours and a half social networks. Half of the Basques consume it in the visible plates by the well-known internet, and between 20 to 24 years of age, that number reaches up to 75%. Today, we can say that culture, culture, are highly-concealed. And hegemony is the language that prevails in the hearing. And of course that's not eucalyptic. In like manner, with the example I have laid before me, I have desired to show, that the regulations which we now have, the laws, are of no use to regulate so extensive and variable a circle of those we have heard. The regulations we now have are not adapted to new reality; and our work in this legislature, as we know, is to make laws, which are at least adapted to reality, and to change the reality by laws capable of improvement. We have therefore introduced this legal proposition, ordered, arranged, and regulated, because it is necessary to establish the euscal sphere of communication so much changed, the independent council of sight, which is a neutral of the institutions, which is intended to guarantee the stability and freedom of expression, the respect and diversity of minorities. For this purpose, it is his duty to keep television, radio, video, or music platforms, so that he has the right to regulate, warn, and in many cases he has the right to punish. If we want to be an advanced people, we need organs like that that that that will work between citizens and institutions. With this purpose, a few months ago, when we introduced our legal proposal, we said that we could convince you. I think it's the most beautiful thing to be convinced of in a democracy, and to be admitted to one's neighbour. We've been working on it, but in every way, we haven't succeeded in convincing you. And honestly, being honest, I don't know why. Sometimes it's an excuse, because we don't have the right to... but in this case we have a right to this, and, if we please, we have a right to make the law of visible euphora, according to the state of Guica. This isn't a quiet thing to do now. This is, you'll forgive me, but this is a loud neglect. On this occasion it is not worth saying about other times: "Uf, we would like to, but we do not have competences", because we have them. We have the powers to create this council and, if we want to, much more, that we can create the audiovisual law itself. This is not a silent erosion, forgive me; this is a clamorous leaving. Utzikiriatik bath ezin daitekeelako ulertu kontseilu ha eratzeari ezetza. In Catalonia, 20 years ago, they're 20 years old. They've just founded in Valentia. France will probably be one of the oldest in Europe, 89. Even in Germany, every L.änder has his own advice. For in Europe, the 10th of March 2010, 2010/13 Corrections, and later its reform, in 2018, requires the production of independent rulers in Europe, to protect the citizens, and to secure their public rights. What's the problem then? Why not such an independent council? What's the problem then? That the council should be independent? Is that the problem? Is that what you're afraid of? But to be independent means only that, organicly, he will not be subject to Government; this legislature will choose that council. So, experts, what you have to do would be fine. I really don't know what it was that you were afraid to tell me about this law, because at least we are afraid of other things. For as long as we have not here the tools of regulating our own vision, they will decide for us in Madrid. Tomorrow's the Basque Day. Our mouth will be filled with beautiful words, of course, for the eucalyptus, but it will be useless if we do not use the little tools we have here to protect the eucalyptus, and we must play Madrid for it. We learned that this same week in Madrid, when it was agreed in Congress that the bill was not given to protect the smaller languages. And so no such platforms, like Netflix or HBO, can be required of any language; No catalans, no eucaments, no losses, nothing. Just what they want. It wholly depends upon them, the circle of our hearers. We can't fight it, we don't have a tool for it. We don't have an audience council to begin with. Now, we had to go to Madrid together with ERC in the new visual law to demand video platforms: the visible content also offers itself in Catalan, in eucalyptus and gala. But such language rights cannot depend on the parliamentary arithmetic at the moment of Madrid. The Catalan, if they have the strength to influence it, has been, among other things, because they have the Council of Vision. 'Cause they're the ones who've been listening to it and working on it. Because they know them, better than any one, what kind of visible things one wants to live if one less language wills to live. The Council of Views of Catalonia is in this, not only in Catalonia, but also in Europe. They are those who have the capacity to produce, because they are organized, because societies are legitimized, because they are independent, because they have moral authority, but especially because they have a right to it. I mean, you know, it's limited to an app, you know? And, by the way, with the big gaps and not very... timid, better to say, in essential matters. So where are we? Where are we? Well, according to my heart's discretion... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... More importantly, in essential matters. So where are we? Where are we? According to our Christmas criteria, we've got plenty of money, it's a big one, and then I'm just wondering why we have the EIB Administration Council, the Control Committee, the Board of Contractal Committee, the Administration Council that doesn't run, and a board that doesn't control on the legislature. That's what we got. For instance, the Administration Council rejected EIB's budgets and what? Nothing. It doesn't matter if you're happy to hear it. Go ahead. Great is the jurisdiction of the Administration. And then, on the other hand, you'll excuse me, but today it's on the broad sea of the visible EITB anchovy beside those gigantic whales like Netflix or Amazon. Who, who will follow them? In fact, we have service from the Cultural Department media, which is responsible for distribution of radio and telebist license. And the question is: How many people do they form this service? One person? Does this person have talent for following media? As the rules of Europe require, is this service independent? Is an organ that's a pain addict? Is it possible to be independent? Third, I'm happy to hear from you, you know, the Election Committee and Zas! That we've got the anti-Retract Network. Look at the work which he does in the field of communication and publicity or sexist, and with all due respect, but when he examines his last memory, it is obvious that he is reduced to collect the complaints and accusations of the people. It's not proactive. Look at them, they don't follow their callings. What's the budget? How many employees? And what's more important, what's there to see? It's the same with the anti-community Network. What resources does it have? On what grounds? Does it also work on migration? Look at Zas! Did you really think they were? For instance, the visual council in Catalonia has 75 workers and 4 million dollars' budget. And, of course, he does not only follow what is most obvious in the genus, but political variety, language rights, children's protection, and so on. She has resources and jurisdictions, both of them. Then, as far as the legend goes, it's about the old World State of Guernica, one of them. On the other hand, the law of EITB, which has not been touched for 40 years, a decree of 2007, which has not been adapted to a new European policy, and another decree of 2011 to distribute the license of FM, which was in the season of Patxi Lopez. That's it. That's it, in short, for the arguments of fun, or rather, to refuse the excuses to our legal proposition. We think the fun of the funk shows such a terrible seriousness, yes. I'm not serious. It is no longer a lack of vision as a country; it is a lack of total seriousness, a irresponsibility. The government covers its eyes so as not to see, but the monster is still there. It's not serious. It's irresponsible. Do like children: there is no such thing as a covering and seeing one's eyes. But it does. And there's a great change in our face. "Mingerry has refused to play as an advanced people, and is acting recklessly from the point of view of culture, both from language, and from the point of view of a democratic government, as well as from the construction of a nation. You've left us alone, not gathering the Basque People, you've left us all alone. I know this isn't the Basque Country that collected the initiation in this field of visual audiences, because if that were the case, it would be bad. This is much more disturbing, because there was a council of this kind, and an invitation to create a law of inspection within the program of EAJ, which is now 20 years ago at Ibarche's time. but those who commanded EAJ refused. Why? I don't know. A conservative submission, perhaps for a retrospective? Because they were afraid to lose EIB's control? You tell me... I don't know, I don't know. Then you didn't think of it as a village. Even now. You're more comfortable in the atmosphere. And we're 20 years late. And again you've lost one more chance. You've lost your chance to make an agreement with us to go on as a village. And you didn't even give him a chance to argue. You didn't take it for granted. And what's worse is none of you have any proposition to offer, either good or bad. There's no offer here. You have no alternatives to offer. The other head. That's all. You have not given up the rank of communications to a nation without a state like ours, you will not reach it. Do you not need to regulate our personal identity, our culture, our language? Don't you think that in order to be an advanced country, we need an independent organ to be able to actually inspect the public or private media systems? You're the only ones in Europe. Finally, I'm just saying that we have a multi-communicative media system, a plural and elegant media of euscal communications, formed by the state. And that's the delirium already. What we really have is a dependency of state media. Look at the auditions on TV or something. And where is multiplicity there? Where are plality and gravity? We're also more dependent on the multinational video on the platforms. Where's the euska? I'll tell you: There are 26,000 Films and Series Netflix, HBO, Disneys, and Amazons. Do you know how many of them are of them? 26,000, huh? Five out of 26,000... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... HBO, Disney and Amazon. Do you know how many of them are of them? 26,000, huh? Five out of 26,000, only five of them. The eucalyp films are in one hand. And you're happy and calm, and it's the Basque Day! We're happy to celebrate tomorrow. But how long are we going to be in this anomaly? How many more years do we have to wait? Another ten? Twenty more? I'm sure it's too late. We'll go on till we get it. And how beautiful it will be to have the regular, well-kept, well-kept circle of our attentions. Ours, ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Together, Podemus-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u3	Good morning, head of the table. Good morning, everyone. The moment we live is called the information society, the communication society, the audiovisual society, given the importance these activities have taken in our lives. In October, according to data, individuals over 18 years of age consumed an average of 290 minutes of television content per day. It's nine more minutes than in September of the same year. Which is almost five hours of daily content. By graduating a high school student, a boy, a student, he will have spent almost the same time in class as watching television screens. Of these, 32 minutes a day, only 32 minutes a day, are YouTube-like content, which accounts for 10% of total consumption. Along with all this content, we receive an average of an advertising impact every ten seconds, which is equivalent to 6,000 daily impacts. Of which 90 are received on television, which are the most effective and of which we remember 50%. With this data I wanted to show in a visual way the importance that television has in our lives and show the constant exposure to the media to which we are subjected or in which we are subjected. Therefore, with such a wide audiovisual market and in view of such a large number of hours of television, it is necessary to have mechanisms of action and rules of behaviour that link the actors and which they can be required to comply with. Paradoxically, in the Basque Country it has not been regulated in this direction. And in the face of such a lack of authority in this matter, what is being used is the system of self-regulation. The problem comes when the self-regulatory processes of the chains themselves are insufficient and the intervention of a third party who sets rules and enforces them is necessary. But who determines that self-regulation processes are sufficient or insufficient? The chain itself? For there is no one else to judge them than themselves. This is where the status of the regulatory authority, whose aims will be to ensure respect, defence and pluralism and the protection of all users, in particular minors and minorities, should enter. For this reason, our group the last legislature already proposed to create an Audiovisual Council in Euskadi alongside the reform of the ETB. And at that time we were, and at this time we are, echoing the Audiovisual Communication Services Directive adopted in the European Union on 10 March 2010. And in what sense? In the sense that audiovisual services are both cultural and economic in nature. And given the increasing importance and weight of audiovisual media for societies and for democracy as well as for education and culture, it is justified that these specific rules should be applied. We see a need for a comprehensive regulation of audiovisual activity in the Basque Country based on respect for the rights, freedoms and values set out in the Statute of Autonomy, especially with regard to the protection of young people and children. The Basque Audiovisual Council should have as its priority objectives the defence and empowerment of the public communication service, with particular emphasis on the public service dimension, as a guarantee of the right to information and culture. At the same time, it would pursue the promotion of euskera, the promotion of euskera, forgiveness, and freedom of communication, pluralism, inclusion of a gender perspective, information truthfulness, free choice, protection of fundamental rights, the promotion of a more inclusive, equal and equitable society, specifically with regard to citizen participation, as well as the prevention and elimination of any form of discrimination. The Audiovisual Council should also play a prominent role in the promotion of Basque cinema and in the distribution of public aid for audiovisual production. This body would also be responsible for monitoring the independence of the public media with authority and sanctioning capacity. It would also monitor the provision of public aid to the media and the distribution of institutional advertising, as a means of ensuring plurality and distributive equity. He would also be responsible for choosing who would lead ETB and who would be on the board of directors. All these and many more functions are assigned to the different audiovisual councils of Europe, from England, France, Germany, Greece, Portugal, Eastern countries, Nordic countries. In fact, in 2008 the Council of Europe already made a recommendation for the creation of such regulatory bodies, with the aim of ensuring the independence of the media throughout Europe, and made it possible to do so both at state and autonomous level. However, neither Spain nor Euskadi has this body of control between its regulatory systems. And instead of remedying and creating it with the quality standards already known, the Basque Government has submitted an unfavourable report, contrary to its creation. Why? The report says that there is a body that is responsible for regulating what it already proposes... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... Report which is unfavorable, contrary to its creation. Why? The report states that there is a body responsible for regulating what it already proposes, which is already proposed in the Basque Audiovisual Council. Which is not entirely true. The report states: "In the case of EITB, as it is a public environment, there are three monitoring and control forums: the Board of Directors; the Board and control of EITB in the Basque Parliament; and the Programme Contract Monitoring Commission". But the truth is that none of these bodies have the functions of a regulatory council, let alone their independence in..., the independence of their members, or their executive powers. They are merely advisory bodies, at best, because the EITB Act has already become very old and to deal with a new audiovisual reality in 2021. It is a law that was born in a consensus, in a social and cultural context, but 40 years ago. And that the Basque Government and the parties supporting the Government have not sought to reform this law also attracts much attention. And to the evidence of the last legislature we refer. A law, the EITB Act, which does not guarantee equality between men and women, and in which the Board of Directors has no sanctioning or executive power. The Government's unfavourable report also mentions the existence of a monitoring commission for the programme contract, but it is also not a body to deal with what is proposed in an audiovisual council. It is limited to meeting to ratify the programme contract, to see if it meets the basis of indicators, which have been called into question even by the current EITB management. He cites, in turn, the social media service, which curiously shares functions with the councillor's cabinet management. This Directorate is responsible for the procedures for the audiovisual communication service and the application for the social media. We continue to see a lack of neutrality called for by the regulatory bodies. The interesting thing is that... well, and one thing that has caught my attention is to see that on the service website they do refer to the European Audiovisual Observatory. European yes, but not the creation of an autonomous one. It would be better to have one here and stop making references to the European. In any case, we believe that it is better and more effective to unify the dispersal of these bodies, of these commissions and of these councils in a framework of a single more effective body and endowed with real capacities for control, regulation and sanction. Therefore, in order to ensure the protection of rights, a Basque audiovisual council should be set up as a body responsible for its monitoring and with sanctioning powers. This body shall act as an external monitoring body to EITB and other social media operating in the Autonomous Community. A competing entity is needed. If we believe in the independence of this council, and in order not to repeat the mistakes regarding political appointments, its composition should be left in the hands of the Basque Parliament, with a system of comprehensive lists of candidatures to be voted by the groups, allowing for a choice based on merit and professional career. The authority that is needed is a neutral authority. Independent administrative authorities in the audiovisual sector must act neutrally. This form cannot be complied with by the Administration, since the Administration can be objective, can be partial, but cannot be neutral, because it has government guidelines. These and many other issues could have been discussed and amended by the groups of this house, if the vote had been favourable and the consideration of the law presented by EH Bildu had been favourable. And we have been very drawn to the attention that, in one way or another, almost all the groups that are present in this House, throughout their parliamentary history, have been in favour of the creation at some point of an entity of these characteristics. What is the reason why the Government has been refusing to set up an audiovisual council for years? For me, it can only be a political cause. But from the Government and from the parliamentary groups that support the Government, they have decided to settle the debate today, depriving citizens of a useful tool in the information society. In the communication society we are in, in the audiovisual society and with almost five hours of television a day, there will be no one who controls it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u4	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. We'll go to the other round. Mysttos are the opposite. Not PP. So, Mrs Martínez, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. No one is surprised to hear proposals from the left for the creation of new chiringuitos. In fact, we already know your fixation on spending everyone's money. That is to say, to increase the expenditure of the State at the expense of the fiscal effort of the citizens, in order to create new agencies of placement for friends. The truth is that you are specialists in generating useless duplicates, probably infused by your mistaken Keynesian view of the economy, or by your repeated interest in profiting from taxpayers' money, or perhaps both. Having said that, it is not surprising that the radical left's attempts to control the media and censor information and freedom of expression with the forceful implementation of its binding single speech, using all the instruments available to the public administration. And the confluence of these two trends is what the Bildu Group is proposing to us today: the creation of the Basque Audiovisual Council. A very expensive chiringuito that increases the expenditure of the Basque Government and which, in addition to recidivizing in new duplicities, would be intended exclusively to control the content of what is emitted from the different public or private communication entities. In other words, an organization that censors and, in addition, a censorship that may even be characteristic of communist regimes... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... public or private communication entities. In other words, a body that censors, and in addition, a censor that may even belong to communist regimes. It should be reminded that article 20 of the Spanish Constitution establishes, inter alia, the fundamental right to freely express and disseminate thoughts, ideas or opinions through word, writing or any other means of reproduction, as well as the right to freely communicate or receive truthful information through any means of dissemination. It also states that these rights cannot be restricted by any previous censorship; therefore, the (?) freedom of expression must be controlled by the courts and never under any circumstances by an entity whose members have been appointed by political parties. According to the bill that Bildu brings us today, we recall that he proposes that three fifths of the seven members of that council be elected by Parliament, we assume that in order to guarantee the independence and objectivity of these members, right? Thus, contrary to what Bildu proposed, it should be only the courts and tribunals that determine whether information is manifestly false, slanderous or insulting, and, where appropriate, the penalty or penalty to be imposed. If this were not enough the proposed Basque Audiovisual Council would have other purposes additional to that of censorship, the Basque impulse with possible agreements with Navarra and the Basque-French zone to guarantee linguistic diversity, that is, a new attempt by the Abertzale left to force the Basque population through the public administration. In other words, another attempt by separatism to confront the Spaniards through the politicization of the Basque country with public money. For our part, we are grateful to the Basque PNV-PSE Government for having given an unfavourable approach to this proposal and having rejected the creation of a little more chiringuito with the resulting public expenditure that this entails, which we already have enough. By the way, we take advantage of this intervention to remind you that the EITB brings out to all Basques the frill of 161 million euros, it is the most expensive public television in Spain and it is a television that does not work with the ethical principles of journalism, truth and precision, independence, impartiality, humanity and responsibility. On the contrary, it is a sectarian public body and at the service of independence, so we do believe that political pluralism and objectivity, which are pending in this body, should be dealt with more. The Audiovisual Council is operating in Andalusia, Catalonia and Navarre and is serving absolutely nothing. One more expense without any service to the citizen. It is curious that it is also intended to be installed in certain communities when it is not even installed at the state level. Therefore, this Audiovisual Council is something unnecessary at this time of economic recovery that will cost so much effort to the citizenry. I think we have a long way to go right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u6	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. If the discussion is over, we'll vote about whether the legal proposition is considered in detail or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; the votes given, 71; the opponents, 24; the opponents, 47; abstentions, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u7	The bill was ignored. Next, we'll go to the vote. First of all, Mr. Gordillo, representative of the Popular Party, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. A proposal for a law on the so-called Basque Audiovisual Council has been put to the vote. We have voted against for reasons of form and substance, first of all for reasons of form, look, form and legislative technique. The truth is that this bill that has been submitted to us for consideration, first of all, attributes different names to what is the same body, speaks of the Audiovisual Council, the Basque Audiovisual Council in the title, the Basque Audiovisual Media Council in the second article, the Basque Audiovisual Council and the Basque Internet in the first transitional provision. Secondly, there are contradictions between the articles relating to the approval of the RPTs, of the relation of the jobs that I believe are inappropriate for the already starting consideration of a law or of a proposal of law. There are competing conflicts that would result from coexistence and that are neither resolved nor pointed out the form of resolution with the National Regulator, with the CNMC. Secondly, there is a huge problem with the sanctioning regime that is being established, the sanctioning regime, which I believe is the basis of the proposal, in substance, of the proposing group. The sanctioning regime is a regime that does not pass a minimum filter of constitutionality by, let's go, not even a minimum filter of almost legality, that is, does not respect the principles neither of legality nor of typicality. It is not known what sanctions are going to be or what violations are going to be serious, mild, very serious, anyway, I think from a point of view, let's say, in a way, because the truth is that the project is very deficient. From the point of view of the substantive issues, of course, it has drawn my attention as they seemed to be two different projects. On the one hand, the proposing group has confined it to a number of issues which rather seem to refer to the establishment of an audiovisual police. On the other hand, the second group that has intervened, the Elkarrekin Podemos group, because it has referred to what would be the establishment of an audiovisual regulator, that would be an issue that could be discussed. What happens is that the way in which it has been proposed because we understand that it does not have a substance enough to pass to the next point, that is, we can all make mistakes in the drafting of a proposal, and the first, what happens is that this one I think exceeds the basic limits, right? As for the substantive issues, look, the substantive issues also make... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ...what happens that this one I think exceeds the basic limits, right? As for the substantive items, look, the substantive items also refer to a number of issues that there is no way to bring them forward. There is talk of regular, monitoring, the objective of this body is regular, monitoring. Finally, Navarra, the obsession with Navarra, is once again talking about the construction of Euskal Herria, the national construction, etc. Anyway. The question of the structure and composition of the Council has drawn much attention to me because, of course, the other day, on the occasion of another law, because it seems that three fifths of Parliament did not guarantee the independence of the members of the Court of Auditors, but, instead, it seems that for this body three fifths does guarantee the independence of the members. Finally, the president has to know Basque, it is said about the president of the Basque Audiovisual Council, this is clearly unconstitutional, on the other hand. Man, it was already missing that he was also a nationalist at a certain time. Anyway. In short, I think it is a proposal that has a very poor legislative technique. The sanctioning regime is not constitutional, and I believe that the proposal itself is not serious. This proposal or proposal for a law, which aims to reduce in the end, will ultimately reduce the competitiveness of the media domiciled in the Basque Country, which will depend, will become fully dependent on subsidies. It builds or creates an organization that is true that it will also have a very important cost without finishing to define its functions, it ultimately attacks the freedom of spectators and operators. And I therefore understand that it is not possible to give the vote in favour of the consideration, moreover, when there are tremendously critical considerations on the part of the Government. And these, ladies and gentlemen, are the reasons why we voted against the consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u9	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Mrs. Galástegui, the representative of Basque Socialists has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u10	Thank you, President. Good morning, Vice-Lehendakari, counselors. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm on guztioi. I hope that after how we played this song the audience absolves us. That said, because we have just voted to take account of that bill that Bildu brought us, in which he proposes to us the creation of the Basque Audiovisual Council. And we continue to see that we are again facing a limited, narrow, partial debate. Because if there is an important debate that is what the Socialists have been pushing without a solution of continuity for a long time, it is that of our public audiovisual service; public service. The need to redefine which public service we want, to redefine its resources, its contents, which are aimed at an active audience. And also how we structure it and adapt it to the current and future demands and needs of Basque citizens in order to strengthen its public service character. We need, of course, an objective, competitive, efficient, transparent EITB, which addresses the socio-linguistic reality by promoting the normalization of the use of Basque, and respects the principles of equality, political, religious and cultural pluralism. And so we have stated in the government agreement for this legislature in which we align ourselves to complete the modernization process that we started several legislatures ago. Because for the Socialists, I insist, EITB is a fundamental pillar of our self-government. And in that endeavour we continue, Mrs Agirre, and this is our priority, and not another. Having said that, I must say that this Basque Council, which is asking us EH Bildu, has not convinced us. Indeed, he has not convinced us. And although it is an instrumental figure that has always seemed very interesting to us, even before EH Bildu was in this Parliament and could participate in debates like this, this debate is a turning point further to this tendency to raise partial, limited, narrow and unambitious issues. And we do not consider this at this time, I insist, at this time, neither necessary nor priority, nor timely nor proportional, and, moreover, it does not seem to us that it is not properly formulated from the point of view of legislative technique, nor from the material legal point of view. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the issues raised in this proposal are governed and managed by other bodies and forums that exist and function properly. All the structures, channels, tools, etc. that we can dispose of meet each and every one of the objectives of the proposal. Which, by the way, are more than 30 in order to the issues I can make, many of which are repeated. In the case of EITB there are three monitoring and control forums: the Management Board, the Control Committee of this Parliament, which, by the way, has a rather important activity, and the Monitoring Committee of the contract-programme, which you think is nothing, and which must be renewed next year. But if it seems to you little what this contract-programme contains is the public service commission that is required of our audiovisual public service. As for the rest of the audiovisual media, both public and private, we have the media service you mentioned, which manages the processing and licensing of radio and television, all the sanctioning procedures, one of the star patterns, and the registration of audiovisual media providers, among others. The Begira Commission, which effectively deals with advice and control for equal and non-sexist communication and advertising. And the Forum for the Integration and Social Participation of Immigrant Citizenship and the Network (...), which intervenes in everything related to the prevention and eradication of racism and xenophobia in the media, in addition to Ararteko, Ikuspegi. Finally, multiple observatories that we have also do their part in this regard. And finally, I must point out to you, Mrs Agirre, that we now have a new general audiovisual communication law which will incorporate and transpose Directive 1.808 of 2018 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November on the provision of audiovisual communication services, which will set out a new basic framework... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... 2018, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November on the provision of audiovisual communication services, which will establish a new basic, modern framework, adapted to the new and dynamic reality in the audiovisual sector and, above all, respectful of the competition framework. And also, why not, our own audiovisual management law in Euskadi. Because, as Almudena Grandes said, the whole is not always the sum of the parts. It is much better that we do things right, that we finish doing what we have come to do, and then, we will talk about other adventures that, in our opinion, are unnecessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Eubertarians, Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, guests to all good days. In order to form the Basque Council, we are now treating the legal proposition. Such advice, it is true, exists in other countries or communities, such as Catalonia. And we went to see Catalonia, a couple of months ago, and we received a very interesting information, which has been useful to us at the time of our decision. What was the first conclusion we took? Now that reality is very different here and here, and above all in the case of what has been heard. And, we think, when we examine the ends which the law proposes, we ought to distinguish or well distinguish between the public and private sector. Because, I think we all share a very strict control over the public, but we must say that we have in this country the forum or structure for this control, that the forums have been successful. Here it is mentioned, we have a committee that controls ETV on this legislature. We also have the EIB Administration Council. And there's a committee that keeps following the contractor. And when we study in private, it's harder. And I think we need to publish some questions. The first of the questions we have to ask is: Is it lawful, is it legitimate to follow up constantly and continuously on the content of the private media? Is it? Is it lawful, is it legitimate to be able to issue binding resolutions, or even to develop sanctioning powers with regard to their contents? Well, it's a complicated debate, and I certainly don't think it's a debate we have to have today. The second question is: Are there forums at present, are there means at present that allow us, with regard to those objectives that we believe are essential, to carry out such control? Well, the answer is yes. There are forums to control gender equality in the media, the Begira Commission, attached to Emakunde. There are also licensing forums; there is the Social Media Service. And there are also forums for non-discrimination of migrants. There are many ways to do that control. And finally, another question we have to ask ourselves is: Is there sufficient critical mass of private media, based in Euskadi, to justify the creation of this council? Is it provided to create this advice exclusively for that purpose? Well, when it comes to judging the proportion, we have to stick to the cost of maintaining advice of this time; how much the bill costs. And, to analyze it, we can go to the case we know, the case of Catalonia, which has 74 people employed, a budget of 5.5 million euros, and which, in the moments of greatest goodness, reaches even 10 million euros. We therefore believe that this is a very important budget, and that it needs to be carefully analysed. And the work of the Government, of this Parliament, of the institutions, is to manage public resources efficiently. And I want to propose to you all an exercise. And it is, imagine that today, instead of debating a bill, we are debating a bill. Imagine that the government today proposed the creation of a council, whose members were elected by this Parliament on the proposal of the groups, whose tasks included monitoring, monitoring, monitoring the contents of the media, both public and private, and which will also have an important budget – let's say –. What would we have to hear today? Today, we would be hearing that the Government wants to create a shingle, and that it also wants to create a censorship body to control the media and censor freedom of expression. And, indeed, that's what we would have to listen to. But the reality is that the Government has not passed that bill, which has not brought it to this Parliament, which has not made that proposal because it has not considered it necessary. And we, in this, also think the same as the government. And that is why we voted against it. And taking advantage of the fact that I have a few seconds left, I would like to make one last thought, and that is that we understand that we must be cautious. The audiovisual sector is constantly changing. The way we consume audiovisual content today has nothing to do with the way we did yesterday. But it all seems to indicate that it doesn't have anything to do with the way we're going to have tomorrow. If at one point we understand that regulation is necessary, the creation of an audiovisual board must be at a time when the sector is stable. In which we have certain guarantees of stability, and a certain vocation of continuity. That is why we voted against. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u13	Thank you, Mr. Díez. Second point on the subject list: "Motion, Unai Fernandez de Betoño Saenz de Lacuesta EH Collector, introduced in the policy of "a higher public interest" projects. Discipline and final resolution. This is the turn of the proposed team, Mr. Oterre, representing and defending the EHG team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u14	Good morning, everyone. Mrs. Tapia, good morning, welcome. And especially to those of you who have come to defend the land, and to-day to follow this argument with care. I want to report... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... And especially to those of you who have come to defend the land, and to-day to follow this argument with care. I want to report that we are face to injustice. And we have no chance now to conclude this abuse of environmental administration law which is taking place. So take it like one of the last chances of today, because what's happening here is serious, and that is, under the pretext of the crime of environment administration, that is to say, without giving us the opportunity to look at the back door and at anyone, the Jelttsky Party, the Social Party being under the wing, trying to destroy the balance and the separation of power in this town, and, by the way, by giving a final sturgeon to the planet. In short, the Julian party endeavors to break the right and balance of power which have long been established in our country, and with severe consequences. Anyone who wants to make it brings the centralization of power. The authority of the townships brings them to empty those already wanting, their autonomys and jurisdictions. And for what? Almost any kind of project to impose, with a new mechanism. Projects of superior public interest, Proyectos de interés público superitor. Or if you prefer a jargon of piracy, which I think is more appropriate to the case, you intend to give a patent of course on the territory to Lakua, in particular, to Arantxa Tapia today present who, in due course, has environment in his macro portfolio. That's why I think you're right about the popular movement when you talk about Tapia law. Once the law is passed, if it is passed, Tapia proposes, the Government disposes and the municipalities eat it. If (...) it is approved, there will be mayors of the PNV, some present today, who can now say that they can do nothing to stop an unwanted project, a harmful or unpopular project or contrary to urban planning at the same time: "I did not want this, but of course, Lakua imposes it". And it adds, it adds, Leixuri, it adds to the high-voltage lines that affect you both in Labastida and in Gatika, it adds to the threat of the La Rioja High-Speed Train... It adds everything and ends the capacity of the municipalities. I want to explain a little more in what the operation of public interests lies. Why, how he will come and suppose what he will say. This, basically, is Naomi Klein's book shock doctrine. He explained it perfectly. It consists of taking advantage of a turbulent situation to impose measures, an unpopular political programme, using a collective stress situation, claiming urgent needs and urgent procedures. Arantxa Tapia, interviewed by Unai Fernandez de Betoño recently, spoke of the urgent need to impose itself on the municipalities, which are all NIMBYs, which are bananas, that is, they do not serve the general interest. I would like to stress the risk of collapse of the waste treatment system, especially industrial waste in this country. Maria Eugenia Arrizabalaga, in her presentation and commission, insisted on the rush. There's a lot of hurry, a lot of hurry. And I say, hurry for what? And hurry for what? I believe that in order to understand what is happening we have to go to four o'clock in the afternoon of 6 February 2020. At that time the landfill in Zaldibar was collapsed, in the face of the indolence of the Basque Government, allegedly by reckless entrepreneurs. Among the many disabilities that emerge in Zaldibar, it is discovered that there is no treatment, an organized and durable system for the treatment of industrial waste. The Socialist Party is implicitly blamed. And the PNV literally takes away his wallet, takes away his environment portfolio, gives it to Tapia and gets to work. But, of course, after seeing how the system works in Zaldibar, who wants waste treatment plants in their municipality? Well, obviously, no one. In full confinement, first attempt, an attempt to propel a plant in Azkoitia. But, of course, the municipality, ruled by the PNV, jumps the alarm, there is pressure, backslides. There is another attempt in Lezama, also ruled by the PNV, a treatment plant with tail dump. But the municipality claims urban incompatibility to reject it. Is it possible to solve this problem without changing the Law of the Organ order of the Law? Very simple. It could be a computer plan. But the planning of territory seems to be idleness. We're seeing the screens again. What do you want to plan where you want to do it and impose it on me when you want to? What's the plan for? If we don't know when and where the opportunity will come. I've talked about Axitia, Lezamah. There are more cases where municipal planning could cause problems. In Bergara right now there are doubts whether the planned pyrolysis plant is compatible with urban planning. If the law is passed, there are no more doubts. The project of higher public interest is appointed and the General Plan is adapted to the project, which is what it brings. This is what involves the declaration of projects of higher public interest, that urban planning is applied to projects. More. The ghost project of Corrugates was also not compatible with Azpeitia's planning, approved unanimously. And the Armentia-2 gas well was also not compatible with the urban planning of Gasteiz. And that's where it's stuck. There'll be more cases. There will be more cases, because, put to solve obstacles that can come from the municipalities or from the plans of territorial planning, why limit us? Because you're telling us this isn't going to be used for anything. Yeah. But you do not want to limit the effect of the new provision either. You say that only projects of environmental social interest will be approved. But what is environmental social interest? Where's it written? Nowhere. Environmental social interest is going to be what Arantxa Tapia thinks. And we've already seen what you're capable of going through projects... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... Environmental social interest is going to be what Arantxa Tapia thinks. And we've already seen what you're capable of going through environmental projects and environmental improvements. The high speed train?, very environmental and very environmental; the incinerator?, environmental complex; subsidizing diesel cars?, environmental smoke; fracking?, environmental gas; aerogenerators everywhere?, environmental, no doubt. Because in the worlds of Arantxa Tapia everything is environmental improvement. In other words, projects of higher public interest, of environmental social interest are the key that opens Pandora's box. And if not, on time. But it's not just what. Because it is important to explain how this is being done, what the process has been, because it has a lot of crumbs. The occasion to give this blow to municipal autonomy, to its decision-making capacity, to its competences, but also to impose itself on all territorial planning and its conditions, has, as we know, been the Law on Environmental Administration. Written and not completed by the Socialist Party in the previous legislature, in this legislature Arantxa Tapia presents it as it was written. But without the rest of us knowing, they had big plans. Meanwhile, reports and appearances, which were repetitive because the text was the same, analysis of the text of the law was made on the old text, but, of course, there were other hidden intentions at that time. In June, the PNV, together with the Socialist Party, tabled more than 100 amendments, including what is already the famous 61 amendment that changes it. A very extensive amendment, which occupies nine pages in the paper, which could be a law in itself. That is an amendment that changes everything, because it changes decisively and substantially the Law on Land Management and, although not explicit, it also changes the Law on Soil and Urbanism, creating the already sadly famous projects of higher public interest in nothing. That is to say, through an amendment, through, I would say, the abuse of the technique of the partial amendment, it is intended to create a new legal reality, something questionable and questionable, because it prevents the parliamentary groups from exercising what is our own profession, that is, the analysis of what is intended to legislate. And I think the case law has made it clear. So it's not just a matter of having a majority. It is that in order to take this forward, even with a majority, they had other possible tools, such as the bill or the bill, that would have endowed what is today a misconception of a minimum of guarantees. That is, among the choices they had, they have chosen the worst, the least guarantor. The case is that by doing so, through the back door of the amendments, this has been prevented from going through the Legal Advisory Commission. It has prevented Parliament from giving or taking an informed decision on this new legal reality. The Government, which has drafted this amendment for the Basque Nationalist Group, has not even given an opinion, nor has it been able to give an opinion on the legal fit of the proposal. The municipalities have not been able to activate the mechanisms for defending their competences. The Euskadi Council of Local Governments has been prevented from acting, violating the Euskadi Local Institutions Act, which in its article 91 states meridically clear that general provisions, such as this, which specifically affect the competences of municipalities, such as urbanists, will be subject to prior mandatory, mandatory reporting by the Euskadi Local Government Commission. There is not a single report on the impact of the (PIP?), there is not a single report on the condition of municipal autonomy, there is not a single report on the legal certainty of this change. The only filter that has passed this dilate is the Bureau of Parliament. And by the way, one day they'll explain to me what analysis they made of this. And of course, we are rebelling against this outrage, against this abuse in every rule. And the city halls are also rebelling. And there are more and more, even among their ranks, who are putting the cry in the sky. And that's why there's such a hurry. Even from sectors of the Government there has been a last-minute attempt to focus on the presentation so that this could be put in place without amending the Territorial Planning Act. But, of course, it wasn't possible. There was a hurry. There was a hurry. As you know we are tying it up, as you are forcing deadlines, advancing committees, Parliament's bureaux. Today, in the morning, an extraordinary one; then there is another extraordinary one. And when you run a lot, you make mistakes and you want to cover them up. We are being sent jobs, one after the other, full of mistakes: the meetings of the presentation were on 5 and 22 November and, however, it is signed on 22 October; the document has constant changes, this latest version that came out of the presentation on Monday and was sent to the Bureau has two additional sixth provisions in different parts of the document. And what's worse, there's a moment when you go straight to the lie, to the lie. The chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Tellería – and I say on his behalf in case he wishes to clarify the matter by allusions – sends on Monday afternoon, after the committee has adopted the opinion on the presentation, an office to the Bureau of Parliament in which he affirms and signs that he sends the result of the presentation and of the amendments reserved by the parliamentary groups. That's it, that's the trade. And I'm reading it literally. When we had a period of 48 hours and none of the groups had sent the reserve of amendments. For what? So that Tuesday morning the Bureau will qualify and the Board of Spokesmen today will send to the next plenary, because there is a lot of haste. Of course, we caught them and stopped him. It's hardly served. Because today's Bureau, therefore, is running smoothly, because it has put the point for the plenary session on 9 December. But to me if I get caught in such a fat lie, or I'm looking for a hole or I'm looking for the door. Unless you tell me it's a matter of lawyers; with that, we would have another problem, because we understand that lawyers are to watch over the regulation and not to force it. They're too hasty because they know they're tying her, they're tying her brown with this amendment, they know it's an imposition, they know they're generating discomfort and they know they want to change the rules of the game through the back door. And this is going to have profound consequences in this country. In short, I am about to conclude that what is happening with the Administration of the Environmental Administration is serious, and it is very serious. And there's a lot of headlines the subject leaves... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... and I am about to conclude that what is going on with the Administration of the Environments is serious, and it is very serious. And here there are two of the headlines of which the subject is left, or one of them open: The Jeltist Party, dragging the Social Party around, wants to impose as many projects as you want from the lake to the council, you've even confessed. But if this be made up a little, I dare say, that the Jestric Party of the Election, which in this country changes the balance and the effective right of power in a decisive manner, taking advantage of the occasion of the whole majority in this legislature, to impose its projects on all the townships, and above all in the councils which have not the majority; And from these he governs the 83 Basque People. Look out for this data. We'll see soon. What do we ask of this excess? What have we cut? Simple: let us admit that this law of defending the autonomy of the township, has not allowed us to consider the complications of this correction; and let us not conclude the legislative process to treat the remains of the planet, till we resolve the affairs we may be able to deal with the waste. We really hope so many people are asking you to answer this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u15	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Cyans, Mrs. Larre, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u16	Good morning. Thank you, President. Well, look, what really brings us here today is the amendment proposed by the Nationalist Party and Socialist Party groups to the draft Environmental Administration Act. The proposed amendment would make it possible to agree on the suspension of territorial planning through the declaration of projects of higher public interest, PIPS, by the Basque Government on a proposal from the department headed by Mrs Tapia. The declaration of projects of higher public interest, as proposed, would imply that any project with so-called environmental social improvements would have an absolute hierarchy over existing territorial planning instruments, such as general urban planning plans, PGUs, PTPs, sectoral territorial plans, DOTs and partial territorial plans. The preliminary draft Environmental Administration Act was submitted without that amendment, without that concept, to the Commission of Local Governments, COJUA, which are the bodies responsible for reporting on the bill to be discussed in this Parliament. And Eudel is the body responsible for alerting those aspects that could violate municipal autonomy. This amendment, introduced by amendment to the parliamentary procedure, substantially amends the draft law. Despite the fact that there is no procedure that obliges us to go through the Local Government Commission again, we believe that appropriate cooperation between institutions should open a dialogue between the Government and Eudel in order to hear the opinion of the Association of Basque Municipalities on the matter, a matter of such importance and silence, before we vote on the bill that we will be carrying out in full on day 9. And so far the objective account of the events approved unanimously by political forces that in other municipalities, in municipalities, for example, as (..:), the one that in plain sight can be seen that the same parties that here in Vitoria take the wick, when they come out of the comfort of this Parliament try to extinguish it as it is in view of how uncomfortable it is for their mayors to explain in the towns and cities in which they govern to assume as their own this direct attack, this none that this bill represents for the management of their municipalities. And what reading do we do from the People's-Citizens' Party? Well, they're several, and none of them are good. This is a cheating bill. It is an unworthy bill, because you have bypassed the control of the Local Government Commission, which is the body responsible for alerting about aspects that could violate municipal autonomy, presenting a text, and now through the back door, without possible return, you are picking up an amendment that substantially changes the spirit of that text. But it is that, moreover, this cheating bill, this unworthy bill, leaves us with other not less worrying readings, such as the little respect you have for our institutional framework, which you do not hesitate to take away competences in order to strengthen your power and remove obstacles in your path. Taking forward this bill is a breach of trust, a breach of inter-institutional loyalty, and opens the way to doubt what will be the next in its re-centralizing march. This bill involves stabbing the heart of municipal autonomy and giving way to the order and command that they so long for. If what you wanted, you want, it's a law to crush any possible discrepancy that might bother you, say it clearly and don't hide behind the door. Do things right, face up and re-submit a bill that picks up all your pretensions. They openly debate what they intend to do, without shortcuts, without trichinets. But above all, do not humiliate us, do not think us fools who believe in municipal autonomy as the best formula to manage the interests of citizens. And I'm going to tell you one thing. If you want to talk about projects of higher public interest... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... the formula for managing the interests of citizens. And I'm going to tell you one thing. If you want to talk about projects of higher public interest bring it to debate in this Parliament, we will debate it, (?) we will inflate and show our opinion on them, which is surely easier to come, negotiate and agree than to impose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Together Podemos-Nozzer, the Signora Hat is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u18	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning. Well, today's entire meeting is one of the last attempts to stop the top public interest projects, or was, as we have seen, that the approval of the local law is already in the agenda during the entire meeting next Thursday. And this, it seems, gives us a clear idea of the day, and today, that the sects that support the Euscal Government, will pass the rhodillo on this occasion, about this law. But this rhodillo will not only belong to us, but also to all the political sects which we make opposition here, and to all the townships of the Basques. It is true that in this legislature you have an absolute majority, you have a pretty large majority in accepting such a law, but the proceedings are important. The procedure has to be taken care of. The democratic legitimacy of any rule also passes through its legal validity and the legal validity is determined by what and how the rules are adopted. What, that the approved rules do not violate, do not contravene what is dictated by other rules that are considered superior at this time. And how, that the procedure followed is the right one and the right one. And around these two issues, this rule that is intended to be adopted offers quite a few doubts. I refer, first of all, to what is contained in Law 7/1985, which is the regulator of the bases of the local regime, and it is already known, has also been appointed, that here the municipal powers are established, and among them, article 25 contains the organization, management, execution and urban discipline, through the General Plans of Urban Planning. Article 27 of the same Act also provides for the possibility for the autonomous communities competent in the matter or the State, where appropriate, to delegate various powers to the municipalities. On the contrary, it's not picked up. Of course, when from Lakua you intend to decide that you want to build, for example, an incinerator in Bergara or a solar plant of 15 hectares on rural land lavés, by the way, by the hand of the Mondragon Group, Ekiola, or an wind farm next to Iberdrola also, you are not only opening your hand, making business easy for friendly companies, you are also, and in this case we want to comment, you are putting your hand in autonomy and municipal competences. And we have to remember that it was precisely the General Plan of Urban Planning, it has also been made reference to other very concrete contexts, previously, it was the General Plan, the (?) of the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz which stopped precisely the project of the gas wells of Subijana. It can be said that it hurt them so much in the Government, it hurt them so much that they decided to do so in a quick way, to cut these possibilities and that they have, let us say, taken this amendment out of the way, in order to put an end to the possible resistance of the municipalities where they are not allowed to impose their projects. Of course, this too we have to think of a question, this suggests a question and it is how we will explain to them or how they will explain, rather, to Basque citizens, that the municipal elections serve no purpose, because whoever wins wins, the big projects will decide them from Lakua. But there is also more to criticise or to stand up to this law, this amendment in this case, this amendment 61. And I am referring to the process by which it has been introduced into the legislative process. Self-correction is a logical, habitual, legitimate, absolutely possibility. That's right, the self-amendments to a bill have... depends on your sense of... not just your quantity, but above all your content. In this regard, there is already a far-reaching ruling by the Constitutional Court that amendments must always address the subject matter covered by the draft law being amended. And in this case it cannot be argued that this jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court is complied with, because when Eudel or the COJUA, which have been appointed before, was expressed around the Law on Environmental Administration, it was not expressed taking into account this amendment 61, which, as has been said, substantially, completely, of course, among other things, the Law on Territorial Planning. And in order to change this Law on Territorial Planning, what should have been done correctly is a draft or proposed law on the reform of the Law on Territorial Planning, and in that case, both Eudel and the Legal Advisory Commission had issued a report on this matter and the mandatory report of the Local Government Commission had also been included, before it was also said that article 90 of the Law on Local Institutions of Euskadi was required to analyse whether municipal jurisdiction was violated. None of this has been done, and so, since Elkarrekin... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... of the Law on Local Institutions of Euskadi to analyse whether municipal jurisdiction is violated. None of this has been done, and so from Elkarrekin Podemos-Ezker Anitza we have recorded more than 20 motions in various municipalities asking, on the one hand, that the Government withdraw this amendment 61, and, on the other hand, that Eudel be allowed to rule on it. This motion, in this petition, is precisely the content of the motion that was adopted in Irún, it was adopted in Irún with the favourable votes, by the way, of the Socialist Party of Euskadi and even of the Nationalist Party as well. That is a motion that has also been passed in other municipalities, also here in Gasteiz, in Vitoria, but well, it is seen that before the echo of these motions reach this Parliament, you have decided to pass the law on December 9th and hope that the health emergency, the Omicron wedge, the Christmases, the holidays, well, silence, conceal this coup, blow to the territorial model of Euskadi. And here it surprises us, and we must say, that we do not do the Socialist Party, to keep silent, and look on the other side. We can understand here the object of the Jestle Party, who, on the one hand, was to control the money from the Lake, and not to leave it in the hands of the townships; And where is the Social Party in this sense? Why is he not defending the autonomy of the townships, we don't really understand it. And a question also that suggests to us this whole operation, this is really the territorial model of the PNV, not to finance the municipalities and decide from Lakua what are the big projects, that the municipalities are only a branch to execute what is decided from the great matrix, which is Lakua. This is the defense of self-government, the defense of the right to decide what the PNV wants to do, that is, whether it is the PNV itself and the economic elites it represents, which they can do and undo in Euskadi at their will. That's the territorial model of self-government they want for Euskadi. When citizenship is mobilized before the (?) It's because they know, they're afraid like us, that they're gonna start putting landfills and incinerators wherever they want. The Araba Bizirik platform, which is here, already intuits, as we do, that they will declare projects of public interest superior to all wind and solar parks that they want. And we will see also in how many of them are, precisely, Iberdrola, Grupo Mondragon, with whom they collaborate in societies as (?) o Ekiola to carry out its projects. Well, for all this I have said, we have signed the compromise amendment calling for the withdrawal of 61, the participation of representatives of the municipalities and respect for municipal autonomy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u20	Ladies' chief, chief of departments, good morning to all. Mr. Otero, with this vehemence that you put up defending the issues here, sometimes it reminds me of that Jesuit that Voltaire was talking about, who lived angry because he didn't understand how to always be right, the world always strived to be wrong. Let's get to the point in particular. I think it is necessary, as on many occasions, to put a little chronological order, just as perhaps in the heat of the battle we have put all the papers on top of the table and I do not know if we have them well ordered. So I would like to start a very brief, very brief sequence of how they came, where we come from and where we are going, because we cannot forget that today what is being debated here in a somewhat rare way is an amendment, a law, let us still say that the law comes next week to plenary, but today we are here in the form of a motion debating the same. We are talking about a bill that its recent course, because it has an earlier stage, in the previous legislature, was presented to this House on November 18, 2020. After a period of appearances and different extensions, all groups tabled our amendments to the draft during the month of June. In particular, the amendment to which it refers, to all the amendments tabled by the Basque Socialist and Nationalist groups, was registered on the 15th day of this year, i.e. half a year ago. On 19 November it met in the presentation for the study of the amendments and the rapporteur for EH Bildu, Mr Otero, left the meeting because of his disagreement with one of the amendments tabled. And I believe that this is a fact that is at least worth noting in the session log. The representative of EH Bildu rose from the table and left. And justly, not only by eluding the debate in the forum that was for him, but at the same time a cascade of emotions is presented in the municipalities where Bildu is represented, an inquiry is presented in the Chamber and as a result of it because we are here today debating this motion. That is to say, and I believe that this is the first conclusion we should draw from today's debate. From the first moment EH Bildu has only intended to set the fan in motion, looking for the spotlights that politically best suit him. But I think the most important conclusion is that today's debate does not have... The purpose of today's debate is not to seek any agreement. Today all groups have firmly anchored in their position and no one is going to move a millimeter. Today the opposition knows that the person who moves does not appear in the photo, does not appear in the photo, and no one wants to miss the opportunity to go out in it, even if it is in the background and out of focus. But let us go to the issue in question, let no one say that the Socialist Group does not get into the background of the debate. All groups, all... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... But let us go to the issue in question, let no one say that the Socialist Group does not get to the bottom of the debate. All groups, all of us, take on the great challenge we face in the fight against climate change, against climate change. A lot of nice words, but no commitments. We're in one direction and the consequences we've begun to see are only lightnings from a great storm. The bad news is we're a long way from where we should be. I hope that the magnitude of the problem is clear. And I could still quote and quote sentences. They're not mine. They're yours, Mr. Otero. But the curious thing is that I believe that the vast majority of the groups that we make up this House could sign the definition of the problem. I believe that we agree on the importance of the challenge before us. And that is the point, that the debate that brings us here today is only understandable if we do not lose sight of the general context. The challenge is brutal. For the first time in the history of humanity we have to make decisions on our historical temporal scale that will affect geological time. I'll explain myself. We talk about magnitudes that escape our imagination. Decisions that we must make in less than ten years and whose consequences will last thousands of years in the history of the planet. And the urgency is total. And I quote Mr. Otero again: "We are only beginning to see the first flashes of a great storm." However, in this context, our legal system is not prepared for the challenge before us. That is the reason for the frantic legislative pace at all levels, from Europe, Spain and, logically, also in Euskadi. And you know it. For some time now, all Governments have stepped on the accelerator, because projects to advance sustainability and short-term objectives for combating climate change cannot wait for the deadlines required by urban planning and territorial planning procedures. These require agile figures and guarantees to enable the activation of infrastructure to help Euskadi meet environmental objectives. And that is precisely the objective of the amendment tabled by the Basque Socialist and Basque Nationalist groups. Allow me also to make a small reference, even for a brief minute, to the famous and so-cracked NIMBY phenomenon, not in my backyard. Lovers of literature know that when opening a novel begins with the good very good and the bad very bad, the best thing to do is to close the book and not continue reading. Any simplification of social phenomena runs the risk of leaving behind the elements necessary to be able to understand them. It is necessary to understand these kinds of social mobilizations, daughters of a liquid society, unable to offer the slightest stability in a world that seems to sink between our fingers. Once again, when it seemed that we knew the answers, we were forced to change the questions. After a decade of..., decades, of an economic doctrine based on excessive consumption and the chimera of which resources seemed infinite, of which resources seemed infinite, it is now up to us to turn on the light, to lower the volume of the music and to end the party. We cannot criminalize those who, with the data they have on the table, react by trying to defend what is closest to them. But the reality is that this is not a local challenge. The answers we have to look for in global processes. This is not about peoples, nations or states. Perhaps this is the first time that the challenge we face has to be faced as humanity. All of our objectives, all of us, the decarbonisation of the economy, the necessary electrification of much of our energy consumption, including the much-cracked energy sovereignty that some people are talking about, the increase in the presence of clean energies within the energy mix of our disposition, the introduction of a circular economy that allows for the optimization of resources, the reuse of raw materials and the reduction of waste, or the necessary resituation of Europe in a convulsed geopolitical scenario, all of them, all of these challenges, are Community. Challenges that not only make the boundaries of our municipalities small, challenges that have blurred the autonomous boundaries, have threatened the national boundaries and have sometimes even called into question the continental boundaries. I insist, we cannot isolate the amendment from its general context. The amendment is inseparable from its circumstances. Trying to discuss the content of the amendment out of context is nothing more than a game of hands, an attempt to trap the lonely. I would also like to end by giving him a few minutes to disassemble some of the myths that have been built around this amendment in recent weeks. Firstly, it is a figure that is widespread in Spain. Almost all autonomous communities have similar figures. Secondly, it is a measure with parallels in other European states. Thirdly, it is a necessary figure while, in parallel, the territorial order is adapted to the new realities. Tools such as the Sectoral Territorial Waste Management Infrastructure Plan, which will soon begin its course, are fundamental. But they're long processes, years of processing. And Euskadi needs an agile, guaranteed and valued figure that allows the fight against climate change to be successful. The approval of projects of higher public interest resides in the Governing Council, but the process is first participatory and guaranteed. It is not arbitrary, as numerous reports are requested: among them, an environmental impact report and a report linked to the Planning Commission of the Basque Country Territory. Municipal autonomy is not limited. Municipalities are part of the process prior to the approval or not of these projects, as they are consulted and can make their claims. I'm done. I said this in the defense of the Natural Heritage Conservation Act, citizens look to institutions for answers. He hopes that we will be able to have the necessary heights to face the great challenges of the future. Let us not waste time, once again, in barren debates. Let's not waste a time that maybe in a few years we can miss. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u21	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u22	Good morning, everyone. And, Mr. Otero, first of all, a warning. He asked me kindly to explain to you for the second time that he is no longer mayor. The environmental administration bill, the new law necessary to improve environment management, the law which has originally been confessed to a remarkable technical character, and which at the end has become a political disturbance, a disturbance... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... the law which has been acknowledged to him openly, and which at the end has become a political disturbance, for we are in the face of a political disturbance. The other day in the commission the Otero said "groups have been prevented from exercising our constitutional rights." Eta hori entzun nuenean, Otero jauna, Ormaiztegiko txakurrarekin akordatu nintzen, zona torpar y passa da. We heard the arguments of the Constitutional Court. At the time when Populous Party tried to bring President Ibarche to prison, you read to us the sentence that denouncing the penal code of arbitration, it read to us. It's just that you've only read the piece you'd like to read, and not this one, for example: "no existorama que estableca una delimitación material entre enmida y propositionion de ley." And this also: "la Mesa de la Chamara contaá con un amplio margen de valoción." And having arrived at this point, and with all due respect to the constitutional rights of the members of the EH Collect, it is my duty to make a small defence for the natural rights of our several legislative groups. We too, in spite of our favor of the government, have a full democratic right to introduce corrections. Our 61. The content of correction, we believe, has also the material humping with the administration bill, which you yourself, Otero, doubted. And today you said something like that, too, sir. For the projects of the higher public interest must be expressly related to the purposes and purposes of the local Administration Act. And, for example, in article 3. It would be interesting to read, but I won't use time for that. And so the Table of this House has also understood, although they have told me, that you are either involved in the Inconsistolism, or involved in it. Dede luego, la enmida 61 no pretende modifiur el Código Penal de ninda. Es verdad que que que pretende modificur la Ley de Orderion del Territore. También es verbad que tenemos, entre otre otra enmienda, que no es la 61, que que que pretende modificior la Ley de Sumeles Condaminosa, and you didn't open your mouth about it, you didn't say anything. But I'll say more for you. For you, EH Collect, there's a correction, at least one, because I haven't studied deeply. One, 35. correction, which has attempted to influence the Enforcement Act. But, klarus, there's no problem with the hunchback. Because this of material concordance and the creation of new legal realities, edo ez dakit zer eabili duzun, hori, that goes through neighborhoods. But we're going to stop legal discussions, which if they have to come, they'll be here by now. And by the way, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, in the question made to him by the councilwoman, referred to the consensus, to the consensus achieved by the Law on the Ordination of the Territory. I've been taking a look at the debate on that law, the year 90. And that consensus didn't seem so much to me, why? For example, it did not contain Herri Batasuna, who went to other things and did not bother to participate in the presentation of a law that, now look where, they consider totemic. Nor did the consensus reach Euskadiko Ezkerra, who, by the way, whose parliamentarian made a comment that following what the Otero said today, what the Otero said today takes into account that all this comes from Zaldibar, the year 90, Olaberri zen Euskadiko Ezkerrako legebiltzarkideak esaten zuen, kontsiderazio interesting bat egiten zuen, as well as "if the government has trouble opening a landfill – the year 90 – to look for life, to ask us not to sink here in Parliament". And in that debate, by the way, EA regretted that the land management guidelines were in the hands of the Government and not those of Parliament. So the consensus around the rather relative LOT as well. And let's get to business. First of all, the colasal challenge ahead of us to start the climate heat, is your words, a colasal challenge. Knowing that our commitments to the collusions are to-morrow morning, as you know, and knowing, on the other hand, as you know, that the problem of the waste of industry is on top of us, how can an aggressive attitude be understood in the presence of a formula for the performance of these matters? Unfortunately, when, as always, there are certain solutions, when it is necessary to connect them in projects, when there is no doubt that you prefer to be suspicious and alarm, rather than to be able to do one another. You're very skilled in asking for colossal solutions in the presence of the Colosa challenges, but when the solutions of this country are concluded, you escape the engagement. As soon as the ugly projects that we need to escape committing are established. For it is easy to keep oneself in the rank of rhetoric, very easy for any one. And now you're gonna tell me it's not like that, that you made a deal in the budget yesterday. And I'll answer some things. One, we're really happy. Two, it's about time. Three, neoliberales, neoliberias, y muy bien, phenómeno. "Así te puedes farr 30 años en la oposición, pero no changeus las condiciones de la genete o no mejoras la vida de la genete, y hay quee dangerare." And these words were important, the words from the bakers. And four, they're fine, but they're not enough from a distance, and you know that. And besides, my dearest communities seem beautiful to you, and pretty... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Mysterious, but they're not enough from a distance, and you know that. And besides, my dearest communities seem beautiful to you. And there's never been a problem with the projects they think are pretty. What happens here is they have to be somewhere. As soon as you decide that any project should be placed somewhere, at least until today, you've always failed. They are all places of one town or another somewhere. In this case we are speaking of a public infrastructure, which must be favorable to the environment, by a public structure which will be favorable to the environment. As soon as something settles, until tonight, you always fail. Joan den eguunean el Oterok lehendakariari esan zion: "We must treat the climate emergency as it is, the climate emergency, the greatest collective challenge we face." We agree. And Fernandez de Betok, the chief physician: "You have to make it through a block." And why doesn't he plan to discuss a change of the Law of the Scheduled Country on the committee? And the question is: how do we eat the need of quietness, when there is no time to answer the emigines and the Colosa challenges? Returning the argument of the municipal autonomy in case. The Basque Nationalist Party does not dismantle municipal autonomy. We have always worked much, much more than the left abertzale in institutionalization, at all levels of this country. And I don't think there's any need for examples. And, by the way, we do not intend to impose anything, but to apply the democratic majority to try effective solutions to the colossal emergencies that this part of Euskadi has. I can also mention the decrees of the Constitutional Court. As has been said in several communities, the like measures of execution have not the sentence, Madam, that is to say, the municipal autonomy of the town. In 2015, there was "no pate la autonomous." In 2019, there's another... And there will be others, perhaps, because things have not been well done in some particular case, they will also be the reverse. But these two, dede luego, lend testimony. And beyond the instincts, I'll say something on my second round about the respect for the municipal autonomy. But I want to finish this by saying this. The top-class public interests don't impose interest on the people who are happy, as you said. No. He wants to respond to the wants of the higher surroundings of this country. And that's what you're doing until today, and even today, you fail the necessary commitment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. To answer, Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u24	I'll give you a good note, Mrs. Arriguega. I don't know "la" generousga or "la" Tapia. But perhaps your colleagues didn't tell you, but then they'd come back and try to make fun of you, 'el' Otero, I don't know, seven, I mean eight times, maybe they'll give someone a little grace. But I think it only shows your category. So I think it would be a measuring matter. I don't, I don't...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u25	Quiet, please. Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u26	... make fun of yourself. (... I leave it there. Sit down as you like. It is also well to know that the law is not the time to enter it today. Maybe the other things will come. But it's all right to know that you or you or insumisi are constitutional. We'll keep an eye on the future. And then you say, and Mr. Alonso...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u27	Mr. Otero, I'm sorry. Please, excuse me. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. But more than once...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u28	Yeah, you said we've got colrosal challenges more than once, and so on. And this is a question of facing colasal challenges? I mean, I, Alonso, I have you for an attentive person and, for nothing, lost. I think today you were making a fool of yourself. I don't think he's lost. This is not going to solve either climate change or the energy transition or anything. This is from the point of view of the fact that we are being stopped by projects for urban planning. And we are to the point that projects are stopped because the planning of the territory is a hindrance. And this is because we want to do what we want to do where we want to do when we want to do it. And for that, for that, we give the Environment Advisor the ability to decide what the best interest is, not like the rest, not like the rest. But besides, what you've done is very curious, Mrs. Arriguega. You said, klaro, you guys in the theory have Colasal challenges and so on. No, you don't make any trouble. Then trouble comes when we concentrate. What have you to do with this law? You didn't establish anything. Interés social metricatembiental. Es que is not defined anywhere. That's why I'm saying anything can come in, and that we've got a chief environmental department, almost any project, which seems to be a improvement in environment. Who'll define it? A person or a team in uniform? That's the day you're being questioned. Let's go to jail. That's what we're saying. Let us go to the concrete. What's the problem? What's the problem? That we're in trouble with the garbage industry? It doesn't say anything good in favor of previous governments. But we have a problem, is that really a concrete problem? Let's talk. Let's talk. And from the beginning we said to you: This is a problem. Let's go to jail. Ez utzi ireekita environmental social interest, in which can fit everything that happens to this government. And if the problem is waste, let's solve the waste issue. We know very well, from the experience in Gipuzkoa, what it means to put a plant in a place... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ...and if the problem is waste, let's solve the issue of waste. We know very well from the experience in Gipuzkoa what it means to put a plant, a waste treatment site and have to put it in places where people resist. We know very well what that problem is. And to solve that problem, we were willing from minute one. You didn't want to, you didn't want to. And, Mr. Alonso, if I was an alien, it was in November 5, because nothing started there because it was over. We'd been gathering together since July, we'd said from July that if this was on the table, we'd stay out of this because it was an abuse. And I, with Madame Arriguega, make a general mistake, and even to-day, but I accepted one thing and accepted it with sincerity. From the first meeting, we both made our positions clear. This has come here because we're fed up because we can't get the projects out of here. And we want to be a tool to get over it. And Mrs. Tapia, too, told Fernandez de Betoño nimby, I mean general interest. My projects will therefore impose themselves upon the peoples. I don't take from you honesty, but we say it's a freak. Because you destroy municipal jurisdictions, municipal competitions, and the balances that have been in 30 years. I'm done, I'm done. You guys had a general salad last Saturday or 8, didn't you? And now feminism and climate are your main challenges, and I don't care if you're going to open an active listening process with your people, an active listening process. This, instead of saying general matters, let us proceed to particular matters. Quick one: Durangoro, Larbet, Antura, Timea, Galdakau, New, Donemiliaga, Urkabustaz, Asparenaz, Zababando, Mourab, Mutku, Usurbil, Oithur, Gomai, Herenga, Muthur, Berga, Getal, Regrina, Billbon, Zingura, Zingura, Agar, Ano, our townships. But again yours, Muntibar, your councilmen, that is to say, your councilmen are gone; Beristo, your councilmen are gone; Everybody asks for the same thing, by the mouth of Irun, saying your councilmen would at least open a trial with Eudel. All of them Irun, the majority of the Gasthes, which is in the government of Irunen Santano, the executive of the Eedel. They all say the same thing, don't take this without listening to people, without hearing the people. There's a nice exercise for you to practice the things you accept in your general asceticade.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u29	Thank you, Mr. Otero. The representative of the Basque Popular Group, Mrs. Larrea, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u30	We are talking here about a technical law, the Environmental Administration Act, which is a technical law, and that we have made it a law of political debate. But it has not been us, it is that when the process of negotiating the amendments was opened Mrs Arrizabalaga comes out, that she reached out to me to negotiate them, that we entered into negotiations, but that her limit, what I was actually asking for was that this Parliament could give its opinion, could legislate on those projects of best interest. Yeah, that's when the negotiation was closed, when I showed him my interest in negotiating. Especially because projects of higher interest have been negotiated in other communities as a law, parliaments have been able to express their views and have heard the voices of citizens who have appeared in these presentations in order to legislate in this regard. What has happened here is that this amendment has skipped any report. Eudel has not spoken, and that is what is really being asked, to give Eudel, the COJUA, an opportunity to speak on Amendment 61. It's for a law, I don't know who said it, but I've heard it, it's for a law. We proposed it, and that was when the negotiations on Amendment 61 were closed. That is why we are here today to discuss the Environmental Administration Act. The Environmental Administration Act has ceased to be a technical law that was to be fought together with the Conservation of Natural Heritage Act for the conservation of heritage, for the fight against climate change. However, projects of higher interest, which are certainly necessary in the field of waste, we can understand that. Do we have a problem in the Basque Country with industrial waste? Let's figure it out. But not by the back door, let's bring it to this Parliament, let's negotiate it, let's talk about the issues, let's narrow it down. If all you are asked is that, you have not wanted to agree on that aspect, you are afraid to negotiate that aspect. We're going to negotiate, they've reached out to them, we've reached out to them. Bring a law to this Parliament to regulate projects of best interest. We will make something clear and help climate change as soon as we can talk and debate about it and legislate on it; not through the back door, it's not a nice move. You know that in the game and on the table is the gentleman, it was said before, because here the game has not been well played.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u31	Thank you, Miss Larrea. Together Podemos-Nozzer, ma'am, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u32	Thank you again, Mr. congressman. Well, I think that the parties that we have..., the parliamentary groups that have subscribed to the transactional amendment have explained quite clearly why we criticize and oppose Amendment 61 of the Environmental Administration Act, why and how. I have not seen in the arguments of the groups that support this decision of Amendment 61, I have not seen any argument that really contradicts our arguments. Mr Alonso, of the Socialist Party of Euskadi, I believe that... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... against our arguments. Mr Alonso, of the Socialist Party of Euskadi, I believe that in a consequence of... or, in some way, with a non-small excuse of manifest accusation, he was telling us that he was not going to refuse to go into the bottom of the matter. But the truth is, he didn't come in. He didn't come in. He has spoken for 10 minutes of a lot of things, but he has never overturned the substance of the matter. Therefore, what makes me think is that you have no arguments to refute the substance of the matter. And that worries me. He has made reference to the fact that all communities, many autonomous communities, have similar instruments, he said. Well, they may have similar instruments; in any case, they would be similar. And, look, something else. If amendment 61 instead of amendment had been included in the bill, or had been part of another bill, specifically devoted to that, it might even have been possible for all those autonomous communities that have those instruments to appear. We would have called them. And we would have asked him: what it is, how it works, what problems it causes, etc. But it couldn't have been. Madame Arrivalga, well, actually, has said a lot of things, but I think that's what I think you'll be talking about in the second round about the municipal autonomy, and we'll have to wait for the second round. But in the first round, at least, you didn't say anything about it. Yes, you have mentioned the sentences, the decrees of the Constitutional Court. I think... 35), say 57, 15th, and 96, 2019. I have read these sentences. And the first, 2015, it has nothing to do with this today. It is true that he speaks of the parliamentary autonomy, the decision of the table, and the parliamentary sovereignty, but it has nothing to do with the matter we have here on our table. There's a little more to do with her than 2015. I'm sorry, I said it the other way around. If it has something to do with the lyrical plan in the 2015, that has something to do with it. But it is in another context, and other things are dissected. Then, when we bring these sentences to the point of the argument, we must, in fact, bring them back to the case. And I think neither of them is here to-day, as an argument, against the arguments of the motion here defended. So, as I said, I think that the parliamentary groups which we have signed the middle term have been explained by us. We tried to explain why we think this should not be accepted. And whereas ye that defend this amendment, or this correction, have not defended against it, in some measure, against it. That is why I, once again, would require that they should withdraw this correction, and, or give their word to Eudeli and such. There's only a week left. I don't think you'll listen to me, but I have to try. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u34	Well, to answer some of the questions. Mrs. Larrea, for starting a little minor to major. I want to be like you when I grow up; honestly. I mean, you've seen a banner, you've hit two elbows, you've stuck there believing you're in Columbus Square, and I don't know if you really, if you really know who your fellow banners are, and I don't know if you really know what your fellow banners claim. Because look, I will not agree, and it seems to me that it is possibly pure opportunism, but as left-wing parties that are, I recognize them the discursive coherence. Now, what I don't understand is what you're doing on that banner; it's possibly Mr. Married's new right. I would like you to give us your opinion, because, of course, the amendment says, "No, what we ask you to do is to have a dialogue." No, no. Its amendment to the motion reads: "Parliament opposes any project that may violate the autonomy or competence of local authorities or municipalities". I would like you to give us your opinion, for example, on Act No. 9/95 on Land, Land and Urban Planning of Madrid, which regulates actions of regional interest as direct activities, approved by the Government of Mr. Ruiz Gallardón of the People's Party; Act No. 10/1995 on Land and Urban Planning of Galicia, which provides that works promoted directly by the Public Administration shall not be subject to urban licensing, approved by Mr. Fraga Iribarne of the People's Party. By the way, talk to your partner, Mr. Feijoo, who is negotiating and processing a new law that includes a figure like this. You stop the law quickly, don't be wrong there. What do you think of Cantabria Law 2/2001, which regulates the figure of singular projects of regional interest, adopted by Mr Martínez Sieso of the People's Party? What do you think of the Foral Act 35/2002 of 20 December...? ...Mr. Otero, point it out, I'll come with you later... - of planning the territory and urban planning of Navarre, approved by Mr Sanz Sesma of the People's Party? What do you think of the Law 5/2006 on Land Management and Urbanism of La Rioja, adopted by Mr Sanz Alonso of the People's Party? And the Law 5/2014, on Land Planning and Urbanism and Landscape of the Valencian Community, approved by Mr Fabra, of the People's Party? Does Act 13/2015 on Ordination and Territory and Urbanism of Murcia, which considers actions of regional interest, approved by Mr Garre, of the People's Party? Mrs Larrea, two out of three laws that include figures that, in your opinion, violate the autonomy and competences of local authorities or municipalities, two out of three laws have been passed by the People's Party in Spain. And now you come, and you say, "Hey, make room for me, that I want to be on the banner." Mr. Otero, going back a little bit to the 35/2002 Criminal Law. You guys... I'm lost; believe me. I know you see me with good eyes, but I'm lost... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... to Act No. 35/2002. You guys... I'm lost; believe me. I know you see me with good eyes, but I'm lost. But I do not know any statement, because you remember that you were in the government in that Autonomous Community and I do not know nor remember, and that you were investigating in the hemeroteca, no statement of the councilwoman of Rural Development, Local Administration and Environment, no statement of Mrs Elizalde, saying that that law was a demeanor, not saying any law... He never said that if you put your hand in the pocket of any municipality, etc., etc. Therefore, seeing that absence and even being lost and slow-digested, at least I often like it from time to time to pose different scenarios, I ask myself three: one, that you arrive at the government and did not know that the law was, option that obviously ruled out. The second, which you knew, but it didn't bother you in the development of your government, and it was four years and so you found it, and so you left it, or three, that you knew, you probably didn't like it, but you prioritized the necessary balance to maintain a coalition government. Mark it for your own conscience, I have already marked mine. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u35	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arriganaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u36	I'd like to discuss a couple of things to Mrs. Potemus. Well, three. Elites? What's with the elites? Projects of higher public interest and public promotion; amendment 61. We can take the other day as we saw the green flag to EH Bildu for its defense of the natural heritage and of the environmentally protected areas, as Mrs Gorrotxategi knows that when the Basque Government creates a natural park, the municipalities are obliged to modify their general plan to accommodate in it the natural plan. I don't know if that also undermines municipal autonomy, or how nature parks like it more than other things, in this case not. And by the way, this is a blow to the territorial model of Euskadi and the Biodiversity Agency that they proposed as an amendment to the Law on Natural Heritage, that Mr Otero put it in evidence that they made disappear the skumenas, the competences of the diputations, at best it is that the diputations do not like them so much, I don't know, because it gives the impression that you apply some or other criteria based on what they like or dislike. "Cosa que también hace EH Collect, que nos ha workado un listado de croos que secunellos..." you can enter into this correction almost any kind of project. And you mentioned some. It's not at all exhilarative. It's a much wider list, but not '61' because they have to do with correction, they have nothing to do with it. No. It's the list you've made, with a summary of all those things you don't like. You told me... You doubted my category. That makes me so sorry, Mr. Otero. But you've noticed why I did it, haven't you? And then you said I was honest. Oh, then I have an illusion. But what is it, and I am honest, because I told you that at some point this repentance is what we want to do. I've never said that before. And something like that in my mouth, or in the mouth of the Chief of Tapias, or in the mouth of others, is exactly the opposite of being honest. It was what I told you, if you want to get on with it... If you'd like, if you'd allow it, I know you said no, no, but we'll make a final attempt... We can adapt the correction so that we can face the real problem with regard to the surface, that we can confine ourselves to the management of the debris. You said: "No." And then: "We will fight you with this thing." And I thought: "Well, novelty." And that's what we're doing. The municipal authorities. Yes, the NIMBY position is intended to give a solution through this correction. And because we're against the computer planning? No, we're on our side. PTS of very participatory renewables, by the way, is being processed, and what happens, that when the municipalities check that no wind farms appear in the documents on their land breathe relieved. This is what's going on. So let's not cheat on the lonely, the plans mark the most suitable place for something. And then, to date, they are not exempt from criticism or difficulties. At least so far they haven't been. However, it is the Government's stated will to continue planning not only for renewables but also for waste infrastructure. But we need a time we don't have, because we have colasal challenges in front of us. And I don't know whether the challenge of industrial waste is going to become colossal, but to be very urgent, yes. And this is the only reason why the hurry of all transmation is: to advance a law which had been brought a year ago, and to make a means of resisting the Urgentines. Por cyto, I'll give you an example, I don't know if I have time. He had once ruled him, and ruled him against the standard of the ruins of Gipulia. He couldn't change it because he didn't have enough votes. Then it occurred to him to change his plan of territory, without any vote, in a very polite manner, by accepting provisions from a small link on the website. What for? In the Cesto, Osinbelz, to place a gigantic dumpage, because it was the largest quarry left in the gym, though there was a report from the environment that said, "que no zenziana elcontrol del..." "... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... because he was the greatest quarry, though there was a report from the environment, he said, "que no ventua el control del vertido de lixivis al río Uola." That's the only reason he's been exposed to the sensibility of environment in the one he's been able to govern. When the gathering ruled the democratic majority, the sactorist plan, and the participation of it, he expressed his respect.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u37	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u38	And I haven't invented a story. It's very true.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. After the discussion, we'll vote for EH Collect and together Podemos Nodegus Key correction that has been signed by the Animals. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes they give, the supporters; the contrary, the abscessations, the whites.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u40	Please, please, come down, please... Please, outside. Please, outside. Out. Yes, yes... Please, outside. Yeah. If you'll give me the vote, please, I'd appreciate it. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 72; supporters 31; contraries, 41; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u41	So it's not accepted. Next up we vote for the whole of the Basque Groups of Popular-Ciudadans. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 72; supporters 31; contraries, 40; abstainments, 1; white, 0.1,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u42	So it's not accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Euscal Popularo-Ciudadnos-like parlamentary groups-Amancio Ortega Foundations with a protopial protopia equipment for theological treatment of Euscal Autonomia Erderago. To discuss and to decide once and for all." Mr. Barrio, representative of the Basque Popular-Chaulian Group, has the word to present himself to the initiative and to get rid of him.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u43	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, counselor, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Well, after a debate that comes up with quite a few problems, from what we have seen, we are going to move on to one that is a cause for joy and good expectations. And, of course, I'm going to put myself on the thank-you banner in this initiative. I'm gonna put myself on the banner. No, no, but I'm going to put myself on the thank-you banner. Why? Because the Amancio Ortega Foundation has donated 280 million euros to the Ministry of Health for the purchase of 10 proton therapy teams for cancer treatment. These teams will be the first to provide the most advanced cancer treatments belonging to the National Health System. So far, the only two teams in the country, in Spain, belonged to two private centers, Quirón Salud and the University Clinic of Navarra. The Basque Country will be one of the autonomous communities receiving the important donation. And the Health Advisor has participated, with the Minister of Health and representatives of the Ortega Foundation and other autonomous representatives, in the signing, in the Moncloa, of the donation agreement. A team of 28 million euros donated to our public health. Then I will refer briefly to proton therapy, but this technique will make it possible to save the lives of hundreds of people, and to offer, and thousands of people, and to offer for many years, and to offer thousands of patients a chance of healing with shorter, less aggressive treatments and a significant improvement in their quality of life. And it will also allow and serve to treat cancer patients from Navarra, Rioja, Cantabria, Burgos and Soria provinces in Castile-Leon. What you're doing is great news. At this time, moreover, as complicated for health, we receive with special joy news such as that given to the Basques last October, with this donation from the proton therapy team for our public health. And I say again, great news for our health system. And an essential boost, above all, an essential boost for the Basque Oncological Plan 2018-2023, which was presented to this very Parliament, in its day, Councillor Jon Darpón, in this Parliament. The Basque Cancer Plan 20182023. And, in addition, these days I have been able to reread and review the Plan. And we see how this new donation enriches that instrument the issue of oncological approach, this team. And it is installed in each and every line of action of the Basque Oncological Plan. That is, basically, in care, but in many others. And, above all, in the humanization of cancer care, fundamentally, or innovation. We need to do a review of the plan. The Plan speaks of three key and interdependent elements that contemplate intersectoral action. And a complementary room. The Plan talks about a model of care being put in place... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... that contemplate intersectoral action. And a complementary room. The Plan speaks of a model of care being put in place. Well, this donation does that precisely, to establish the care model with an infrastructure of these characteristics, which will do what the plan says: to reduce the time of diagnosis and treatment of cancer and to concentrate the treatment of relatively rare cancer cases and those in which the result is conditioned by the volume of cases that are attended to. In other words, progress will be made in the ability to offer organizational models, in addition to this new technology, in relation to what the Oncological Plan establishes. That, moreover, it should be remembered that the Oncological Plan itself already talked about that nothing is possible without the support of the technologies, of the new technologies that allow to offer an effective and safe care to people with cancer. The Basque Oncological Plan also recalls how it was built with the collaboration, with the support of the Amancio Ortega Foundation, which allowed five linear accelerators for radiotherapy and a mammograph for diagnosis to be renewed by 2018-2019. In other words, a donation of millions of euros also came to give the very point of departure to what was innovation in the Basque Oncological Plan, that is, this is a second phase. It also reminds the Oncology Plan of other issues. The second key was to improve, (...) an information system. Logically, if we improve the technologies and the care system, the information system for patients will have to be improved and improved. But the third key of the three mentioned in the Basque Oncological Plan is the personalized and precision medicine, which we know is concrete, which in the last advances in relation to oncological care, and which is concrete precisely in the care capacity that infrastructures of these characteristics will achieve. In other words, in addition to personalized precision medicine, in addition to the care model, in addition to the advancement of information systems that will emerge after the implementation of this new technology increasingly close to the patient, there is also research and innovation, and the training capacity of oncologists in relation to this new technology. Proton therapy is a proton-based (...) radiotherapy modality, allowing radiation to be released in a more localized way, so that it produces fewer side effects with the same healing rate. Its great advantage is that it manages to radiate less healthy tissue around the tumor, which makes it especially useful in tumors located near structures and organs that are very sensitive to radiation, such as brain tumors or located in the spine, the eyeball. In addition, it is also particularly useful in childhood cancer, because the organs of children in full training are more sensitive to radiation. Well, in all these matters, the team that the Amancio Ortega Foundation gives to Basque public health will advance. As I said before, two years ago, the Protontherapy Center of Quironsalud in Madrid treated the first patient in Spain with this therapy. Now, this private group and the Clinic of Navarre are the only places in Spain where this cure can be received. Therefore patients in need of this type of treatment would have to be derived from these two private clinics, or they would have to go abroad that so many examples had to go abroad, (...) the very people who could afford it for so long. That is, that you advance socially in an impressive way with this donation. This is a model that, in addition, settles, strengthens Basque public health. We have to say that this news has been received with complete satisfaction from the Society of Radiotherapy Oncology. It highlights how protons, unlike electrons and photons, are more elegant particles, they say, that allow that dose of radiation to be deposited right into the tumor, which makes it especially good, as I said before, for boys and girls. And experts describe it as biological surgery, which allows access to the most difficult areas with very sensitive organs and deposit the energy with such fidelity that the adjacent tissues are not damaged. I mean, that impressive advance... is a historic advance in our health, this team that the Amancio Ortega Foundation gives us, and we want to thank you, and I believe that this Parliament, on behalf of Basque society, has to thank you. This biological surgery is still called the radiation of the future. We have to remember that there have been ten machines, plus the two existing in Spain, which we will now have in Spain, 12, which would place this donation at the forefront in Europe, where there are now 30 in operation, seven of them in Germany. That is, we are going to overcome Germany also in this kind of oncological approach. And it is estimated that 5% or 10% of cancer patients will now require proton radiation therapy. So it is believed that Ortega's donation the Spanish population will be very well attended. In other words, the whole population population that will require oncological treatment will be cared for in this regard. In addition, as to the economic importance of donation, these are very expensive treatments. Why? Because the starting investment is very expensive. But, anyway, once done, they will serve to treat many patients for many years, with the most effective treatment that exists so far, which makes this kind of investment compensate, because now they will not be covered by public health or budgets, they will be covered by the Amancio Ortega Foundation. In that sense, that is the progress that must be highlighted. We have already remembered that the machines will be installed in the Basque Country, Catalonia, Galicia, Andalusia, Valencian Community Madrid and the Canary Islands. And, well, communities will have to take care of the installation and maintenance and care management of what since... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... Valenciana, Madrid and the Canary Islands. And, well, the communities will have to take care of the installation and maintenance and care management of what the receiving Autonomous Communities, at least the Basque Autonomous Community, are of course well prepared for, as the adviser on this matter has said. That is, Madam President, to conclude. In Basque health, and in particular, Basque radiation therapy, takes a giant step with the proton therapy team donated by the Amancio Ortega Foundation in relation to cancer care. In addition, it goes parallel to the formation of oncologists, oncology nursing, which is also going to be very reinforced around the use of this equipment. And the Amancio Ortega Foundation should be thanked for the donation on two issues. It helps us fulfill the predictions of our Euskadi Oncological Plan, and it is a donation looking at people and looking at health. That is why we have tabled this non-legislative proposal, which seeks to ensure that Basque society through this Parliament appreciates this important step in our health, in our health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u44	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, the representative of the Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Hernandez is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u45	Well, Mr. Amancio Ortega and the Inditex group are again being the focus of attention today through an initiative of the People's Party following once again the health donations of Mr. Amancio Ortega or his foundation, which many consider, like Mr. Barrio, an example of philanthropy and generosity, in our opinion it fades if we make a brief review of the history of that giant textile. From the exploitation of Galician seamstresses to the exploitation of children in Bangladesh, this is how Amancio Ortega has become one of the richest capitalists in the world, the person, if I am not mistaken, richest in Spain at the moment and the sixth in the world. In the polluting workshops in Indonesia and India, from Galicia to Brazil passing through Zaragoza or the prison of Zuera, we find an example of the business model that has made Amancio Ortega thrive. Precariousness, pollution, persecution of trade unionists, tax evasion and agreements with prosecutors all over the world to cover up their shames. Today, Mr Barrio of the People's Party proposes to us once again to thank this capitalist for his almsgiving donations which seek only to whiten his image and which in passing relieve him of taxes. The Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi agree to thank Mr Amancio Ortega, and above all they agree that this Parliament should thank him. We're not, we're not going to thank Amancio Ortega. If only we have to tell him two things: that he pays his taxes without trichinets, and that he will face us working to make that minority to which he belongs disappear. Those who concentrate the world's largest assets in a few hands at the cost of the vast majority of poverty. Parliament has to thank a guy like Amancio Ortega, who has millions left, because he has decided to make a donation when we know his practices to pay less taxes than he would have. When we know of the numerous cases of labour exploitation and extreme labour exploitation that are behind their businesses around the world. When we know that these donations are nothing but marketing operations to sell your benefactor image. We do not think so, and we categorically reject the fact that this Parliament becomes a servile and shameful institution, thanking those who spend hundreds of millions on buying yachts for personal use through companies in tax havens to avoid paying taxes. In our view, the obligation of this Parliament is to work to ensure that the public administration has the necessary public resources for quality public health. The maintenance of Osakidetza and its equipment must defend..., must not depend on the good or bad will of a person. If this machine was necessary Osakidetza should ensure that it was in public health with public resources. A universal public system is financed by the taxes that individuals and companies pay, because it is their obligation, and not with charity, because it is the system that redistributes wealth. Public health must have sufficient funding, which means sufficient taxes and progressive collection. Situation that is not happening in our country. It is well known, we all know the huge differential in fiscal pressure below the average of the European Union we have in Euskadi. In our country, large companies are taxing around eight, nine per cent of profits, and workers average over 20 per cent in the IRPF. Labour taxes are higher than the average of developed countries, while capital taxes and large fortunes are lower. In our view, private donations are very common in countries with moderate or low fiscal pressure, with insufficient public services in coverage and in the media. A paradigmatic example, especially if we talk about health and health, could be the United States, where they lack a public health system worthy of being called that. On the other hand, there are other countries in which there is a powerful state of well-being, with powerful public services of universal coverage and sufficient means. There is an important fiscal pressure and, above all, a really progressive one, and that is precisely where private donations are barely directed to international aid programmes. Therefore, for us, Mr Barrio, the question is what is the model of society... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... They are aimed at international aid programmes. Therefore, for us, Mr Barrio, the question is what model of society we want. Support for donations always comes from the hands of neoliberal parties, such as yours, business groups and media groups. Throughout Europe, we are no exception. We don't want that model. The Galician businessman to whom they propose to thank us will recover through tax deductions and for several years more than a third of the money that the communities, in our case Euskadi, will have to advance in order to buy the devices for the diagnosis and treatment of the cancer that then subscribes to its foundation. Ortega and the companies he runs will recover more than a third of the cost of the program via deductions. So a third of those donations, roughly, are actually being paid by people. Of the 280 million euros – I am not very good at mathematics – but almost 100 million euros will be paid by the people, when it is Amancio Ortega who has decided where these resources are allocated, because it is a finalist donation. It should be seen whether with the taxes that he has avoided paying in Spain this gentleman, with companies in Malta for example, for his megayats this comes to account or to return to the public coffers. We do not have access to Mr Ortega's income tax return and we do not know how many companies he has outside Spain and where he has them. If we know that Pontegadea Investments, the heritage society through which it manages both its personal participation in Inditex and its real estate business, which is no smaller, is one of the tools it uses to pay as little as possible. Case recently known by the press is that of the purchase of a yacht of 95 million euros. Ortega set up three companies in Malta for an operation that, according to a spokesman for his company, had no fiscal motivation but privacy. They think we're idiots. It seems that that privacy you require for the purchase of a yacht does not require it for your donations. And it seems that he has among the political parties some good friends who are already in charge of advertising him with initiatives like this. That, in our opinion, is the objective of these donations: propaganda and marketing for their image and for their businesses. It is precisely the marketing of the operation that makes it always conditional, conditioned and finalist donations, in this case to the technology that Mr Barrio has described for the treatment of cancer. Therefore, the donor's interests predominate. The general interests of the health system and the most pressing health needs of the population are not prioritized. We think – and we said this once in this Parliament – that it is dangerous for individuals to be able to interfere in the policies of organization, planning and management of public health resources. Strategic interests of the health system are conditioned on the basis of particular interests. There are many interests behind these donations and we have to point them out. If Amancio Ortega cares about public health and the health of the citizenry, pay his taxes accordingly and do not organize advertising campaigns. We think that we do not need acknowledgments, but fair taxes, which guarantee sufficient public services in this case of health. And for that, as I said, taxes must be changed. There has to be a tax reform that ensures a truly progressive and therefore fair contribution from all people. Once this fiscal equity is guaranteed to ensure the contribution, it is true that nothing happens if someone wants to contribute with a donation to public health, provided that it is unconditional and can be used by the administrations according to the needs detected. The system of finalist donations has no logic beyond the logic of the market and some particular interests. And we, Mr Barrio, cannot ignore what the Inditex Group proposes to us, with multi-million-dollar benefits, from its very beginnings, drags complaints and convictions for exploiting its workers in every corner of the planet, as well as for the use of polluting materials. I will give just one example: Inditex had to pay 5 million Brazilian reals, almost a million and a half euros, in Brazil, after reaching an agreement with the Prosecutor's Office, when it was discovered that people without papers worked exploited, produced garments in subcontracted workshops in Sao Paulo, in total, up to 33 subcontracted workshops. Slave work with days of up to 16 hours, minors working, tiny spaces, were charged for using the bathroom. The goal of these donations is to wash their image, which is the image of escaping taxes – up to 600 million since 2016 – and wash their other image, which is that of violating the labor rights of workers. We're not going to thank him. Above all, we are concerned that Parliament will be the one to thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u46	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, good morning... or good afternoons already, I don't know what time we're... All of you. This time, as has been said, the proposed party brings us another proposition as well as that, but a couple of years ago, it was a very similar one. After all, the end of the two laws is the same; only to praise a pattern of society. That's the real goal for the proposed team today, not to put a specific person in value. His aim is to put the model of society defending the proposed team in value. In other words, the several groups here today's discussion understand public services; that's the discussion today. It is the dispute of examples that we have today on the table. We're all going to say that the public health system is basic. Everyone here, in the legislature, defends public health, and the ranges we're living... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... We'll all say it. We all here, in the legislature, defend public health, and the pomp of public health has left the importance of public health still more apparent. How we won't rate our medical systems to have better tools or, in this case, to have a better machine for cancer treatment. But we value our public health system in the EH collect, of course, and this is an example of the contribution we've made to strengthen our first attention in the budget project. But we also understand the importance of public health and other public services in finance. This is the basic importance of the tax system. Not a system of taxes, but a system of taxes sufficient to finance strong public policies. And for that, yes or no, the fair, progressive tax system is basic, with the redistributor and sufficient strength. Because our model of society is founded on social justice, founded on citizens of rights, because it is founded on equality. We have a clear notion that investments made in essential services like health and education are not at all dependent on the will of private donors. When we defend public health for all of us in this country, it is necessary, first, that we should establish sufficient resources from our responsibilities. This, for example, is the duty of the government: It means they're pretty economically useful to the best public services. And to have the proper tax system for that is essential, and that's the attitude we defend in our correction. Today we are talking about two models of society, because the proposing group, which is adept at low taxes, the less the better the public sector, the lower the minimum public services, brings us here a loa to a donor who surprisingly, as has already been mentioned by a colleague, by Mr Hernández, has previously been news to create companies in Malta, not because he likes Malta, but because he wanted to pay less taxes for a superyat that has been bought new, and the one that was already news at the time also by a report presented by the Greens in the European Parliament, according to which, the business group of which this person owns had escaped hundreds of millions that had about 74 subsidiaries in tax havens or offshore squares. But beyond the individual, for us, the debate is whether the health system, giving our health system the best tools, the best machinery and the best professionals should not be a priority to be financed by public budgets. That is the debate for us. We find it at least strange that a donation has to come to improve the treatment of thousands of sick people. We're talking about rights, we're talking about the right to health. And, actually, I think that's a serious issue you shouldn't play with or frivolize with. We advocate a redistributive model, which works based on solidarity, justice and the sharing of wealth. And in this the Administration must decide what the money is used for, without interference. It is the public administration that has to decide what the money is used for. I used to say, in my speech, that I know that we all say, and in this Parliament it is often argued in defence of the public health system, which is basic, which is fundamental, and we all defend it. But the reality is that "from the saying to the fact there is a stretch." And here also influences, once again, the model each, the model of society that each of us and ourselves defend. Because the proposing group, which on more than one occasion has used this same forum to exalt the fiscal model, for example, of the Community of Madrid, always forgets to mention that in those defenses that Madrid is the community that invests least in Health, and that, for example, for the budget of 2022, Madrid has budgeted 782 million less than the actual expenditure it incurred in the year 19, prior to the pandemic. It must be that in Madrid they owe everything, the improvement of health, to the altruistic donations of some people. And, in short, everything goes together, and that is what the proposing group always forgets to explain: that with its model there is less money for public health, than with its model, in short, there is less money for social rights. And in this example, the rich pay but few taxes, or none, they finance their private health, and, if they please, pay money for their health, of course, with taxes. That's not the model we don't want for our people. Seriously, what kind of health system do we want? Do we want universal health, quality and security? We've got to be the tax system that's suitable for that. The given system is fair, progressive and redistributor. For rich men ought to pay their due taxes. Mr Fernandez has already said that without escape and without applauding the people, as we do the rest of the people do every day. That someone wants to make a donation after they pay their taxes? Perfect, make him do it. We're a lot of donations, but we don't have a picture and we don't have a advertising campaign. That is why we also mentioned in our proposal the need for a protocol to receive donations. Because it is necessary to clarify some aspects of these donations, including the objectives that are followed and the relevance of the donation itself. Is it necessary to make a donation public? Do you have the donations to be finalists? That is the debate we should have. And in the case before us it is clear that, with this campaign of donations, the commercial brands behind that foundation have achieved great publicity. They have managed to associate the trademark with social utility. And this has a great impact on the advertising world, greater than any advertising campaign of thousands and thousands of euros. The great publicity value that has the link with solidarity causes, both social and environmental, in our times is well known. And that too should be taken into account in this debate today. We know this gift will bring benefits for many people, but that's not the discussion today. Let's discuss the financial system that we need to strengthen public services, the tax model, or the health system we want. That's what you'll find us for, for the sake of society. [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ...of the financial system that we need to strengthen, the tax model, or the health system we want. You will find us ready to work for the welfare of society. But seriously, to use the legislature again in this, I don't know who to clap a proposition like this two years later, I really believe that the serious problems of society are so serious that we have no... I shall not say the right, but it is a pity to give a man time either to applaud or not to applaud.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u49	Thank you, Madam President. I must confess, Mr Barrio, that I have not understood the need for this non-legislative proposal since its introduction. Among other things, because the last legislature already had a general pronouncement on the issue of donations in investments in health technology, which collected a thank-you to such donations and urged the Basque Government to comply with its plans to continue to give the best attention. And from what we have seen, positions have really not changed. It was pretty predictable. That's why, no, I also understand that it wasn't necessary. Once put forward, this group will never object to discussing what everyone does with their turn of initiatives. That said, it is also true that I cannot share some of the issues I have heard so far either from the proposer or from the amendments. Because it gives me the feeling that a great effort is being made, on the one hand, to try to turn something that is simply good into bad and, on the other hand, to exalt and beatify something that is simply good. And not one thing or the other. There was now talk that the debate is the system. No, no, The debate is not the system. Because if the debate were the system, maybe today we would have a transaction with Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu. No, that's not the debate. Another thing is that others are using that debate, but that is not the debate. The debate is what the proposing group has put to us here and which I, I say again, do not see the need for it, but since it has proposed it to us, we have it. Why do I say the donation is good? Because, as you know, the Amancio Ortega Foundation and the Government of Spain have signed a collaboration agreement that will allow our National Health System to have 10 proton therapy teams for cancer treatment. And one of them is coming here to Euskadi. The formula – and this is important – is that the Government of Spain buys them – 280 million in four years in the General Budgets of the State – the foundation will then enter that amount and at the end of the public cost will be zero. And with that data I believe that in the eyes of anyone this is good news, because it puts us..., those ten units, it puts us up to the level of countries like Germany, as Mr. Barrio pointed out, and we take a giant step that puts us in the head together with other great nations in the fight against cancer. A technology, proton therapy, which allows very effective treatment in tumors with difficult access, with high precision and which significantly shortens treatments and which, as you know, is also suitable for the child population. I, for this reason, beyond the prejudices or overestimations of one and the other, settle for saying that it is a fact that is good, that it is good for us. The pandemic – I've heard it sometimes – has left us many lessons, but today we could bring here two of them. The first is the strength of our public health system. Public health is the safe haven for citizens and for citizens in the face of the most serious pathologies. And public health is an irrevocable treasure of our state of well-being. And if we talk about public services, if we talk about welfare, logically, a public health system cannot depend on altruism, of course not, of course not. But that's not the point. Even if there's someone today who wants to say yes. The public health system must depend on the solidarity of all citizens, translated into the support of our state of well-being through the payment of taxes. Of course I do. And that's right. As I said, we agree that the public health service is a pillar of the welfare state. And if we agree on that, we will also agree that sufficient resources must be provided and that the allocation of resources must meet criteria of effectiveness and equity. Good. But the other lesson we have learned in the pandemic is that health needs never, never have enough resources available, always need more. And in this scenario, it is worth considering whether or not they are compatible with these values of the tax-funded public health system the possibility of receiving some private donation that will help to improve these public services. And we believe that the answer is very simple. Following a parallelism that Mr Hernández has made, I would tell you whether the possible renewal of the technology of a system or the modernization of the system itself or the construction of a hospital depends exclusively on the goodwill or altruism of a donor, that would be a terrible and unacceptable symptom, unacceptable. But, of course, if, on the contrary, accepting a private donation, a solid and robust public health system, like ours, can release other resources to devote to interventions or programmes that have already been identified as a high priority in order to implement and improve the health of citizens, so go ahead, go ahead. And it turns out that that's the case we're dealing with today. Our public health system does not depend on donations. Our public health system finances it through taxes among all. Our public health system is solid. And what's the best proof of that? Well, something... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... our public health system we finance through taxes among all. Our public health system is solid. And what's the best proof of that? For something simply as obvious as this donation is given in the context of the approval of the General Budgets of the State and of the Budgets of Euskadi with greater public investment in health of all history, with the greatest public investment in health of all history. Look, I'll give you an example. The INVEAT Plan, which is the Plan for investment in high-tech health equipment in the National Health System, envisages that this year will be completed in 2022 a total investment of more than 796 million euros to transfer to the autonomous communities to acquire high-tech equipment. 796 million to which we will add the 280 million that will be donated by the Amancio Ortega Foundation. In other words, this technological innovation does not depend on this Foundation, but this donation is also added to the plans of the Government where they are collected. We Socialists therefore advocate a universal, public, quality and equitable health system. A public health system that does not depend on altruism, of course not, but on the solidarity of all, converted into the obligation to sustain our state of well-being through the taxes we pay. The Socialists are clear on the model, so much so that we set it in motion. The Socialists have clear priorities, so much so that that defense we do in this rostrum translates into facts in the budgets with the highest health spending in our history where we govern, in Spain and in Euskadi. And if in the middle there is the possibility of adding a donation like the one proposed by the Amancio Ortega Foundation to acquire cancer control technology that will help thousands of people, would anyone in their right mind reject it? No, no, The answer is no. Therefore, grateful for the contribution, and we to ours. To continue to consolidate a public system of universal and quality health, which, if it is able to add the greatest amount of resources, does not doubt, accepts it without complexes; because it does not have any doubt or complex to defend that the way forward for the system to never depend on altruism, is that it depends on our taxes. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u50	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Orbehail, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. And good noon to all. Well, actually, when we heard about this action, we were surprised. For, as has been said, because this dispute is bis, we are discussing it a second time about the same subject. And, besides, I believe with equal arguments, there has been no change in the manner which each group does. And, in that sense, as Mr. Barrio said, well, well, thank you again for the Amancio Ortega Foundation, thank you, we have no objection to expressing it that way. And, well, once I say that, thank you for Amancio Ortega Foundation, but also for every person who makes his contribution to cancer, both physical and legal person, association, volunteers, etc., so thank you all. We don't have to say any problem to thank Amancio Ortega Foundation especially, so let it be so. We couldn't make an agreement with any team. We believe that Mr. Barrio has made the most ardent and good defence of the planet of the Onkology, oncology, and in this respect we share a very positive defence. No? The opportunity is to give an opportunity of getting ahead or better the expected target on this set-up. And, in this sense, we have no objection at all to this other proposal. I mean, to thank you, to thank you for this foundation. We do not agree that the discussion of the present day is the pattern, the tax system, or the pattern of the tax system, or the dispute about the models of society. No, it's much simpler. It's much simpler. It's true that if you see that it's a positive thing to be donated by someone like that kind of technology, or, well, thank you very much. And anyway, if ya que is trying to divert the discussion, I'd like those who insist on doubting and distrust so much that they'd have their attitude or their attitudes, or if they were, they'd refuse this technology where it's going to be. I know Mrs. Pinedo had even said in the previous discussion that she'd have no objection, that she'd have no objection to accepting that technology or the equipment that's to be adopted. And I think that's the way you said it, but, well, what you do is, let's turn the matter away, let's focus on the possible doubts of this person, his taxing, his doubts about the prosecutor and the like, let's focus on everything else, but let's not get wet or let's say, look, this person has decided to do it. And, well, it's the least I can do to express gratitude or gratitude... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... This person has decided to do it. And, well, it's the least I can do to express gratitude or gratitude. So we vote for our corrections. In our correction, as we said before, it rests exactly the same. It's always been our priority, and we think it's gonna be a good idea to give you the best health care and public services, with public resources. But even if you can, if you have any chance, take advantage of it. The bet and commitment to the public health system is complete. We've only just met a few weeks ago what the medical department's budgets were: It's a $4,350.00,000 budget, which has gone up to 4%. It's gonna be more money and more investments and more money than in the past few years. The amount also is 1,924 euros for each person. I think we should consider that. And so it is our priority, as we have said, that the end is that all the people have the best care of health and have it. And I think that we all agree in this, and agree together with that part of the middle courses of Podemos-Uuerda and the EH Collectorak received. In order to protect health, in order to be able to do the means of treatment in Osare, to avoid tax fraud, to avoid taxing taxes, we have no objection to fighting against them, we have no objection to it. We agree with that, too. Besides, we have no doubt that this is done in the institutions, and in the institutions in which we are concerned. There are schemes, programs, regulations against tax fraud, against fraud, against tax fraud. And besides this, tax policies exist so that we can maintain all the public services that we have, and continue to be better. We believe in the progressive tax system, the redistributor, the legitimate, the effective... We have no problem with these principles either. We have no problem with any of these principles in our tax system. We agree with them. Besides, I think it's very important that these principles are based on the Economic Concera. The Economic concert is the basis of our self-gorganization. And I think we've always defended him. We think it's basic, even our self-portrait, to have our public services as best we can. Why do I say that? Because here, while I listened to the discussion, he seemed to gradually peddle up to Congress in Madrid, didn't he? That's how it gradually goes away, growing farther and farther away. Instead of keeping the discussion here today, at last... In fact, I don't know if you've read the pact, Mr. Hernandez and Mrs. Pindo. The language is signed by the Spanish Government. The medical Ministry of the Spanish Government signed it. The Spanish Government also decides how to make a donation. It's been a Spanish Government deal, but it's been a Spanish government pact under the plan of the Spanish Government. So, I'd like to, apart from this discussion, (... ) Besides susing the controversy around it, etc.... That's very good, the data you've given us. I don't know, I don't know what you've mentioned. Amancio Ortega up, down, Maltese sausages... All right, all right. But if you were here, if you were in charge, or if you weren't in charge, just say it right now, you people who are representing you, please don't give up that equipment that's going to be donated. I don't know if that's what your team would say. You have a chance to tell me now. And see why. And we would at least like to hear this argument. It's another thing that you want to be secret, to look for excuses, to argue, not to penetrate into that discussion today. The discussion is not about patterns. It was a very simple discussion. Thank you for a gift equipment. What would you do in that case? And so also Mrs. Arridalga has mentioned it before. When the solutions are to be Consecrated, that is to say, before such an opportunity, to defend dimus interests, abstracts, &c. And that's very good. But then, when there's a solution to it, what you'd do when you hire such an opportunity, you'd have to get wet too. And there also society must know what every one's plan is. In the previous discussion, 11 people stood up as members of the law today to defend your position. I think that ought to lead to reflection, too, don't you think? Without running away from commitment, not abstractly, always avoiding discussion, without diverting the discussion. So I leave it for the next round. I don't know if there'll be any answers, but, well, at least from the beginning tell us that we'll protect our middle-class correction and that'll be limited.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u52	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. The next round of the band that hasn't run any corrections, Mistto. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u53	Thank you, Madam President. My grandmother used to say, "It's good to be grateful." And this comes to the finger of the initiative that the People-Citizens Group brings us today. In fact, it is an issue that should not even be discussed, because gratitude, of course, has to be there. The amendment to the totality of PNV-PSOE also seems to us to be very correct, as it thanks Amancio Ortega for his collaboration, and adds the momentum that Osakidetza must have by updating those equipments and installations, something that is necessary to adapt to the continuous social changes... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... since he thanks Amancio Ortega for his collaboration, and adds the momentum that Osakidetza must have by updating his equipment and facilities, something that is necessary to adapt to the continuous social changes. Mr. Amancio Ortega started selling pajamas and gowns at only 14 years old, and thanks to his initiative and effort he enjoyed his benefit, but risked a lot to achieve it. Do you know what it's like to work hard and risk your precarious economy so you can get ahead? Don't answer it, you don't have to. Donated machines are one before and one after for the sick who need them, especially for children and for doctors who work daily in radiation therapy. Until now, the patients who needed this treatment were sent to Italy, France, Germany. Thanks to Amancio, you will now be able to do so here, in Spain, and, in this case, also in the Basque Country. Thanks to it, Spain will be at the forefront of Europe, with 12 proton therapy machines. Public health did not offer this benefit to these machines because of their high cost of both equipment and treatment, which was ten times higher than radiation therapy. Thanks to Amancio, all Spaniards will be able to enjoy this advance, this cancer treatment, with which we couldn't even dream if it wasn't for their donation. The lamb's mother appears when we look to the left and its proposals. Oskar Matute, of EH Bildu, said in the Congress of Deputies that Inditex in 2019 won 10.4 billion euros and that it taxed zero euros in corporate taxes. False. Inditex paid €372 million to the Tax Agency for corporate income taxes. So, we recommend that Bildu use official sources of information, such as the audit report published in the National Securities Market Commission, and does not base his information on sources related to his ideological profile. In this case, a report from the ELA union. I don't think ELA is the economic paradigm to dive into in order to get true information, do you, ladies and gentlemen? From Podemos they have also said real misconceptions of Amancio Ortega. Mrs Verstrynge described it as a "tax evasion", that is, to commit a crime, since tax evasion or tax evasion, known as tax fraud, is unlawful conduct. Gentlemen of Podemos, you who are and are part of the Government of Spain should denounce this fact in the courts, but we do not know that you have, right? From here we invite Amancio Ortega to initiate a lawsuit against the leaders of Podemos for slander and for publicly accusing him of a crime that he has not committed, because otherwise, they had denounced him. They can't stand anyone freely deciding where to donate part of their profits, of their savings, without you deciding where, when, how and why. They've been doing something as intimate as solidarity. We can have been flogging Amancio Ortega for years, saying that he has tax benefits, something that is false and unsustainable if you look at the data from the Ministry of Finance. If they were interested in the truth, they would find that Amancio Ortega is one of the big corporate tax payers in Spain, something that benefits all Spaniards.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u54	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. We'll take the answers turn. Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u55	Thank you, President. Mr. Rico said he saw no need in the initiative. Let's see, I do. I do see her, and that's why I brought her. I don't know if anything, if anything... Yeah, yeah, if I see her, yeah. That's why I introduced her, isn't it? I don't know, thank you, thank you. If anything benefits us, then we have to recognize it. You can't pretend nothing's happened. Yes, and something very important has happened: our Oncological Plan 2018-2023 has been strengthened. In a historical way, I repeat it again. And as has happened to us, it is normal for me to come to Parliament and thank, or want Parliament to thank, on the basis of that success, of that progress that we have all had in this country. And I have done it, or I will, because we are going to thank the Amancio Ortega Foundation mostly in this Parliament. It is normal for the groups supporting the Government to see little need in the opposition's proposals, but in this case, look, we share thanks, and we will also get it. Mr Orbegozo also told me that he was surprised by the initiative. I hope you can continue to be surprised every year by initiatives like this. I wish you could continue to be surprised every year, because we will be receiving good news and we will be strengthening not know if our health system or our education system, but one of our systems will be strengthening you with initiatives on this one. I'll be surprised, too, but I'll bring the initiative. Good. What I'm saying is that Euskadi's Oncological Plan 2018-2023 is what it wins with this initiative, with this donation and with this contribution. And in that sense, I've explained it before, it perfectly fits into each and every line of this plan, and it strengthens it. Mr. Hernandez. Well, let's see, the Amancio Ortega Foundation is one of the private pillars of the social system in Spain. It is one of the private pillars, because of its contribution and its connection, not only in the health field, in the social sphere, in an impressive way. And you'll know for sure. Moreover, the best social policy, within what is the Inditex group, is to create employment. Inditex practices the best social policy in a society, worth redundancy, which is to create employment. And that does it well, and that does it well, and that also benefits us all. Thousands and thousands, tens of thousands of jobs. Well, that benefits us. It's hard to recognize successful private business experiences for you. Well, it's your problem. In his speech, moreover, he is totally catastrophic. It's like CNT. It's like burnt land. And besides, he doesn't feel sorry for an advance that it represents for our society, of what is happening to us. Besides, with false accusations. It will not be I who diverts attention, of course, entering the game that you pose us. But I see you coming to court, because every time you say that kind of thing, I say, but what is Mr Hernández doing right now sitting in Parliament and not in the courthouse, in the National Court, in the courthouse of... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...I see you coming to court, because every time you say that kind of thing, I say, but what is Mr Hernández sitting in Parliament right now and not in the court, the national court, the court of inquiry or any court? Well, I don't know what... because with that catastrophic speech, and besides, and besides, but it's a deal with the Spanish government. Who is in the Government of Spain, I don't know, just as you have to do some survey to find out who is in the Government of Spain, are you?, Mr Hernández, are you in the Government of Spain? They have not said anything, they have not said anything, they have not raised the tone, they have not received the agreement, I have not heard them say anything, and of course, and in the Valencian government you are also, you are also in the Valencian government, and I do not know, Mr (?))Puig, of course, has received this donation, of course, with open arms. Man, I think these inconsistencies about what you're talking about, Mr. Hernandez, that is to say, you take out the burning land speech again, from communism, capitalism, all that is successful business experiences that you're trying to take down in the purest style of what you are the ideological essences, but society today doesn't work that way. Of course, we have made an approach that marries reality, needs and good manners. That is to say, in this sense, because the amendments in their entirety which they have tabled, well, because they have interesting elements of debate, but they are not intended to... I would like to say that they are going absolutely astray from this debate, but I am grateful for Mrs Pinedo's amendment in its entirety, which expressed her obsessions with Madrid or (?) is that it serves all of you constantly as well, (?), Madrid, which creates the most jobs, which has the most economic growth, and which progresses in all areas on a permanent basis. Well, (?) the obsession in Madrid, well, so follow you. I'm done right now, but you're talking about a protocol, creating a protocol for donations. Let's see, it already exists, there is protocol, a need, a donor, there are both and we already have protocol, that's protocol. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u56	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together the representative of the Podemos Anther, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u57	Yes, Mr Barrio, I am a minister of Spain and a counselor in Valencia. I don't know if it's compatible. Of course, I am not going to avoid that we are in the Government of Spain and I have never avoided that participating in a Government has its contradictions, because in the end a coalition government like that of Spain is the product of a correlation of internal forces. But if we have said and if we have done the criticism of this type of donations being already in the Government of Spain, and it has done so United We can, yourself and some other spokespersons have quoted here some compañeras and compañeras of United We can-left United, maintaining the same position that I have held in this debate, being already our coalition part of the Government of Spain. Because we are told: you divert the debate. And they tell us, no, the debate, what the debate is, what Mr Barrio was proposing to us. The debate is to thank Amancio Ortega, isn't that the debate proposed to us by Mr Carmelo Barrio? Indeed, I do not avoid any debate, I have said the reasons why my group believes that a Parliament should not thank Amancio Ortega for this donation. And the reasons have to do with several issues: first, because we do not agree with the type of finalist donations. We've said it more than once. Especially because in this case, because it proposes a thank you to a specific person. We know and have explained our arguments, that behind these operations is a marketing campaign of this entrepreneur. And therefore, we do not evade the debate or draw attention to it, we say the reasons why we do not agree with a Parliament thanking it. And secondly, because this particular donor... I do not make any unfounded accusations, and in my intervention I have spoken of judgments and agreements by Mr Amancio Ortega's company with prosecutors to avoid more forceful sentences for proven acts of extreme labour exploitation. And therefore, we think that someone who runs companies with these behaviors is nothing to thank you for, because at a specific time makes certain donation. Moreover, we cannot avoid that behind the concrete debate of gratitude lies a political model. Behind the concrete thanks offered today by Mr Barrio hides a concrete political model, which is the model of the People's Party, continually saying: lower taxes, the left wants to raise taxes, lower taxes and what public services are financed with donations from Amancio Ortega and all these good people. You have the money left and we have to thank you because you have made a specific donation. We do not agree with that and so we say. And they ask us, they say, what would you do if you were in the Basque Government, would you reject the donation? Well, I believe that you yourselves, too, when you said that we are in the Government of Spain, you have responded to yourselves, we are in the Government of Spain with the correlation of strength that we have. He has rejected us, (?) Signed. But then they tell us: do not divert the debate, the debate is whether to thank or not. For we clearly tell you that a Parliament should not give thanks for such donations, because thanks through a non-legislative proposal or a motion involve political issues in our first-class opinion. And we cannot share that this is done. And criticism of the type of donation, because Mr. Rico said that these machines were within the needs already identified in the health care system, but in the health care system... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... because Mr Rico said that these machines were within the needs already identified in the health system, but in the health system, you will share with me, that there are other needs equally identified. Who has decided that it is these specifics that these resources are going to go to. Public health, in the case of Euskadi the councilwoman, in the case of Spain the minister, no, Amancio Ortega. And we have to thank him, of course, because he has given us some hard things, because they are hard things that this implies in the economic capital of this gentleman, an important part of which he earned in form, of course, for us, very unfair. Therefore, yes, we are going to refuse to be publicly thanked from a Parliament to a person like Amancio Ortega. And we do not avoid any debate, we give the reasons, they are our reasons for saying that we do not thank Amancio Ortega.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u58	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. Pindo, representative of EH Collect, from there, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u59	Mrs. President, I'm going to cut it short. for I think that in the first discourse I have been speaking of, and that I have said what I think of this dispute. Look, Mr. Barrio, you can in just ten seconds back the EH Bildu proposal, but the reality is that this is a model issue. And Mr Hernández and I still think it is a model issue, and his model is this, where a rich person does not pay taxes or pays less taxes, because it is the model that you are sponsored in Madrid and in other autonomous communities, and when the time comes for the donation is paid a tribute, thanks are given to him, but it is that we are not in the 19th century, we are in the 21st century and the public services, the public services, are paid with public taxes and this type of grace cannot be done. Frankly, it seems to me a lack of respect for public health, yes, it seems to me a lack of respect, no, not the donation. I am saying that you want this Parliament to do a loa and a... I don't know, a loa to a specific person. Which seems like a mistake to me. Moreover, I have never mentioned anyone in all my personal intervention. And, Mr. Orbe, I told you. I said it from the beginning. I don't give up the discussion. I've been arguing. And now I've told Mr. Barrio. For me, it's a pattern discussion that's behind us. Of course it's a model discussion. Do you really think it's important to say they're here or should someone thank you or not? Is that the only argument we have? No. There's a big discussion behind this. And it's a pattern discussion. And it is the way we will follow it, or we would have another pattern. And donations, there are hundreds of donations, thousands of donations from anonymous people who make donations each with what they can. But that does not mean that there is a campaign that is given to that person free of charge, because behind this there is an advertising campaign to this person's companies. And that's what anyone knows, photos and so on. On this occasion there has been no photo with the lehendakari, but two years ago there was a photo with the lehendakari, if you remember, Mr Orbegozo, and we said that it did not happen. Probably now you've taken an example, because really, do we really have to take a picture of ourselves with a donor? Man, please. Donations exist and will always exist, but that does not take away so that public health has to be financed with public money. And I insist, donations may not be final, because I don't think public spending has to be decided by a gentleman from Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u61	Thank you, Madam President. I start by saying the same thing I said at first, I don't see the need for the initiative, once a group brings it up we're never going to wonder whether you've thought it over or not, well, it's your share of initiatives and we're going into the debate. But said this, Mr. Barrio, you have marked them with incoherence. Look at the Kafkian of this situation. You who have come here to defend the state of the nation represent a party, the People's Party, that will vote against the State General Budgets that contain public resources to buy these machines. Because if you have read the convention, and those who are not going to support this initiative, are going to support the State General Budgets that are going to buy these machines. This is the magic of politics now that Christmas dates are approaching. But man, I also think there are certain debates, I ratify, that make us waste almost an hour of time. We had an agreement from the last legislature that hasn't changed much. We had positions that have also not changed too much, with a difference, that who today wants to come here to this atrium to defend this donation and put into value what it means will vote against these public resources. And those who do not want to ratify this donation here publicly will do with their vote that the General Budgets of the State go ahead. And I believe that these kinds of issues we have to save citizens. I think they're nothing... I think they're nothing upbuilding, I think they're not causing us anything at all. And that is also why my group has not reached a compromise with the proposing group, because we do not share that today's debate was the model, and I say it again to Mrs Pinedo, because on the model we will agree, on the model you, Elkarrekin Podemos, the Basque Nationalist Party and... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ...to tell Mrs Pinedo. Because on the model we'll agree. In the model you, Elkarrekin Podemos, the Basque Nationalist Party and we believe that at least we would agree quite well. Nor, Mr Hernández, is the issue a matter of tax debate. Because, moreover, I am not going to extend, but we have offered one... to add one point to our amendment which speaks precisely of this strengthening of the progressive, equitable, and so on, and so on, in which we have absolute coincidences. I think you came here today with a series of prejudices. And those prejudices don't fix anything for the citizenry. The truth is that with this donation Basque citizenship, in this case, will have a proton therapy machine and that's good. But it is good, Mr Hernandez, and I do recognize that, because there is a decisive and doubtful bet on the public health system. Because we can never, ever allow our health systems to depend on altruism. I told you, these machines that will actually come are because the Amancio Ortega Foundation has put the money on the table, but they are included in a plan that contemplates more than 700 million euros. You know that because it belongs to the same government as my party. Therefore, neither the Government of Spain nor the Basque Government is being dictated on what these public resources have to be spent. There are issues that have been perfectly prefixed by governments that undoubtedly believe in the maintenance of public services, of public ownership of the health service, because it is one of our great treasures. In this respect, I would like to move what Mr Orbegozo has said, and we will remain in our amendment. It's not about beatifying anyone here, it's not about ignoring a donation that I think is important either. But our objective remains to strengthen the public nature of our health, and that is what is reflected in our amendment. Nothing more. And thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u62	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Orbehail, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u63	Thanks again. Mr. Barrio, you finally got what you wanted, you've had your little protagonism. Finally, we will accept what was admitted in the last law, and thank you for all his support or interaction in the struggle against cancer. And, on the other hand, as to what Mr. Hernández had said, we did not present this initiative, we did not present it to Mr. Barrius. And to this we made our correction, to follow what was agreed upon, and also what was agreed upon in the dispute of the preceding law, is it not? And one thing is to make criticism, as you said, that you, well, the training to which you belong is integrated into the Government of Spain, one thing is to make criticism and another is to demand from others what one does not do. That's a problem. And that is why I was expressly asking you to see what you would do in this situation. Because I have told you again, that is, the agreement is signed by the Government of Spain (...). And it is also a very special donation, which is then transferred to the autonomous communities and so on. It is a subject that we have been gradually moving to Madrid, we have ended up talking about the fiscal model of the People's Party in the Autonomous Community of Madrid or where it governs, etc. But we don't have that model here, we don't have that model here. So, in one situation, we have our own model of taxation that relies on public services to further strengthen public services, if an autonomous government, whether or not the lehendakari has to accept that donation, I believe there is no doubt, there is no doubt. The problem is that then you use that to make political criticism in Euskadi, that's the problem, which is what people don't understand. That is, what people do not understand is that you are willing, that there is no problem in accepting it, but that then to criticize the Basque Government a series of arguments are used, talking about taxation, the yachts of Amancio Ortega, the taxation of the PP of Madrid, etc., that is, things that totally have nothing to do with the reality here. And that is why I was expressly interested in what your position on this matter was or what you would have done about it. So, to the thread of what Mr. Rico has said, we will protect our correction. We have no objection to express our gratitude to any one who works in conjunction with his best will against cancer. And we're asking you to bet on public services and to continue that commitment. And let's hope that Mr. Barrio will be satisfied for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u64	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Miss, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Rico, as much as I say it, sometimes magic isn't magic. And more specifically, what you say to me about the signing of the General Budgets of the State is not magic, it is an agreement in which different political groups arrive with a small letter, which is what you have not said. But I can promise you it's not magic. This said, I will finish my intervention as I have begun, with a saying: You see the straw in the eye of others and you do not see the beam in yours. The Spanish chorus is wonderful, for a long time. Gentlemen of Podemos, we believe that you do not know what tax evasion is, I think you do not know it. And I have made a small extract of different situations that have given me great light on this subject. These are three very clear examples, which I will explain to you, and you will see how you give me the reason: not to discharge an employee and pay him in black, what makes Echenique; to avoid the notifications of the Treasury and to make a complementary when you are caught, what makes Currency; to report that the works of the headquarters cost... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... Echenique; dodge the Treasury notifications and do a complementary when they catch you, which makes Currency.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u66	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u67	To report that the works of the headquarters cost less to avoid paying taxes to the City Hall, what the members of Podemos do at their headquarters. Gentlemen of Podemos, to be so critical of tax evasion, it draws the attention that you use it so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u68	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. After discussion, we'll put the original text of the proposition as the Basque Groups of Populara Ciudadans. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 71; in favour of the enemy, 7; the contrary, 65; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u69	So it's not accepted. Together, Podemos-Nozzer is going to vote for the full rights of the crew. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 71; in favour of 25; the contrary, 47; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u70	Not accepted. Separation the full correction of the EH group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 71; in favour of 25; the contrary, 47; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u71	Not accepted. And finally, Eucabertians, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 71; supporters of the party, 47; rivals, 25; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u72	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "Glad and together Podemos Antaziancian, the other proposition of the Santander Bilbao railway. Discipline and final resolution. The caller's turn, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño, representing the EH Group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u73	Good morning, everyone. First of all, that we are discussing this subject in the civilities of the council, in the pliants of the assemblies, in the pliant of the General Courts of the United States of Madrid, and now here in the plinoe of the Basque parliament, a common community which unites the citizens of Biscague and Cants, for the great work which has been produced since half a year and a half ago, on the great platform of the St. They are therefore grateful to them, because they have placed upon the table the central materials which are discussed in all these plunes. Why did this platform start downtown 2020? Because the scale cuts caused by Pandemia had almost finished the Santander Bill line. Before Pandemia, he was pretty low already. On the day on which there were three voyages, and two of those three voyages had been removed from the Santander. It was impossible, therefore, that the same day from Cartara, for instance, should go back to the Bilbat, and return the same day. That was a long time ago, because now those three journeys in front of the pandemia, those three days' journeys, that is to say, from 2002, the line of Santa Slub on the narrow railway, and above all this decline came to an surface when the line had passed through 2012 and 2013 to Renfe's management. That line that connects car and Bilbo gives less than 20 years of service every day. It is true that now you can go and come back in the same day, but therefore it may serve for punctual travel, but if it is to be used in the usual manner, it is absolutely involuntary to go to work or to study. Besides, there is independence almost every day: The trouble, the damages, the machineryists are missing... Service is too bad. And we believe that the inhabitants of Encharther need, like the inhabitants of any other part of the country of the EAE, a valuable transport. And that's not the case. Strangely, this train, the narrow road that binds Santander and Bilbo, is more than forty years ago. It's slowing down today than 40 years ago. In 1980, it took 55 minutes from the Karra to go to the Bilbo Mission. And for the last two or three years, it takes 15 more minutes, 70 minutes. How is that possible? Well, because in recent years the technical problems are more common than ever, the gaps with which the maximum velocity is reduced. And these technical problems are due to lack maintenance. Sometimes there's problems in tunnels, sometimes in machines, in chains... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... and these technical problems are due to lack of maintenance. Sometimes, there's trouble in tunnels, sometimes in pumps, in chains, in stations... I mean, the same physical infrastructure isn't well kept. So services are either bad or poor, infrastructure are also bad, and subordinates need important investments so that they can provide a quality service. The whole trajectory is not doubled. And besides, the entire course is not electrified either. The electric electrocution of the Karera-Arang, by chance, left Adife two weeks ago. I'm just saying, by any chance, that's probably because of the work on the Platforms on the side of the Santander Line. They've taken it into a litigation to elect a space between Arangur and Karera for $3.8 million euros. Besides, there's a lot of dangerous corridors down the track. For this reason, we have brought in a three-point proposition which was approved of a great majority in the United States a month and a half ago, with the intention of acquiring political commitment to the great majority of the Basque legislature. The first point of proposition is general, and directed to the administrations which have jurisdiction. What do we ask of them? To make improvements. The second point, the equal authorities, we are told to negotiate the transfer of these temporary trains as soon as possible. And lastly, the third point is more adapted to the Spanish government, to MIT, Renfe, and Adfi, to say the exact measures of improvement, both to improve services and to improve sub-structions; that is to say, to the frequency, electricity, information, and so on. It is a proposal to obtain as wide a political support as possible, in which we have deliberately refused to include other matters. And of course, specifically, I'm talking about a high-speed train. At least I'd like to say a few words, anyway, on a high-speed train, because the high-speed train has a great connection with the final 20-30-year collapse of the temporary trains. And for that purpose, I will not use the EH Collector's study, but a report published last year by the Solicitor General Public Prosecutor: The studio sobre Infraiorary Lands de Transporte. Here, on the one hand, the travellers, and on the other the investments, were to be compared to the occasional trains and high-speed trains. And the result is highly rebellor, very transparent. It's said in the study that the Russian state's passenger trains are used at 90%, isn't it? 90% of all train users using temporary trains. And in 2018, it was the 560 million passengers who all over the state used the temporary ones. The AHT's users, 2018 years in the same year, 30 million, that is, nearly 20 times less passengers. And now let's see the investments. And investments, we're not gonna focus on one year. We'll take a bigger period, 30 years old, I think it's enough to be validative, and AIREF takes investments between 1990 and 2018. How many investments have been made during that interval during 30 years? $3,600 million. And on the high-speed train, 56 billion, almost 20 times more. I mean, every time they've taken more than 20 times of passengers, they've invested almost 20 times in the last 30 years, less than 20 times a high-speed train. And AIRF himself gave this title to the briefing of the press: "La Autorid Independenti de Responsabilud Fiscal constata el strong esfuerzo invertsor en alta velocidad frente una inversión insificiti cerías, y propone poner pon foco los crites de movilid." In fact, we are focused on the last part of the phrase, bringing this proposition here in the criteria of mobileness. And, as I said, we didn't even mention the high-speed train in the other proposition, as it is here to vote, because we wanted the proposition to be as large as possible in Madrid as two days ago, just as other people have not done.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u74	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr Martínez-Izón, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u75	Yes, good afternoon. Thank you. Well, as a matter of fact, we all agree with Mr. Fernandez de Betoul, and I'll be right in the same way. Lehenik eta behin, affirming that if we are debating this here, as Mr Fernandez de Betaño has said, it is thanks and due to the drive of the platform in defense of the Bilbao-Santander train line and all the work he has done during these long months, presenting various initiatives and motions in the different municipalities of Bizkaia and Cantabria, and also in the General Councils of Bizkaia, and with the meetings I believe he has had with all the political groups in different institutions. Hemendik, gure esker one platformers, egindako lan guztiagatik. Eta I expect dugu ére, fruituak lehenbailehen ikustea. Also, and to do so in the first round, you also apologize in the sense... It is true that we could have spoken among the various groups in order to register this initiative. It is true that the haste of other groups in Congress also made us introduce it here in time, in Parliament. Yesterday the debate took place in Congress, which we support the... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... to introduce it here in time in Parliament, yesterday the debate took place in Congress, which we support the final negotiated initiative, but we did not sign it because we did not agree with the last point, which is the one that comes out of the consensus that we have and that I think we should have in line with the Bilbao-Santander train. But, well, let us hope that today this initiative will be adopted and that it will be a new impetus, in this case, for the Basque Parliament, so that the investments that some have already begun but that some will develop over the next few years will be made as soon as possible. Because the urgency is getting bigger every day. The platform was set up to claim a service worthy of the service of the train between Santander and Bilbao, and especially in the valleys that affect them, especially in our case, Carranza, but also in the valleys that affect them. A service that had been reduced in a brutal way, to a service a day, that is, you could go from Carranza to Bilbo, but you had to stay in Bilbao, there was no way back; it had no sense at all. And, well, now the previous frequency has recovered, it's already been explained, I'm going to try to sum it up. Three frequencies were recovered in both directions, an improvement that had been claimed for months. Well, this has returned to the services prior to the start of the pandemic, but it is clearly not enough to cover the actual demand. We don't look at current user numbers because they're trapped by the lack of services. A service, moreover, which, as I said, had a totally insufficient frequency, but it is also an outdated line, with unfortunate conditions in some sections, with a time of travel, which has already been said, superior to that which was even at the beginning of the twentieth century in the whole line. Mr Fernandez de Betoño has also given the data on what it now takes for the service between Carranza and Bilbao and between Bilbao and Santander, which in recent years has also been expanding towards three hours, when I myself, personally, 12 years ago did it in two and a half hours, which is also not a very competitive figure, but, well, it was already half an hour less. In this line or line of history few investments have been made, there are still a few tracts without electrocuted, more workers are needed, and there are a number of problems and a few technical problems every day. And the inhabitants who live in Karrada and singbrai, must make real gins for their arrival in Bilbaa or for their return from Bilbaa to their own countries. And it is true, and I also agree with what Mr Fernandez de Betoño has said, that this has been political decisions for decades, that in the Spanish state high-speed lines have been prioritized, leaving aside completely and using that name that they have, that perhaps it is not the best, as secondary to the lines that unite and spread the territory. The deterioration of medium and long-distance services in the Spanish State has been a constant since the 1980s. A political decision of the two major parties, and also supported by the Basque Nationalist Party, for decades to bet everything at high speed. If you see the figures for investment in high speed and conventional routes in the Spanish State, they are absolutely scandalous; more than 90% in the high speed of investment in recent years. My colleague Juantxo Lopez from Uralde yesterday in Congress gave the figures. In 25 years, €52 billion has been invested in high speed, which has not been sufficiently determined, also here in Euskadi; this would mean that every citizen of the State will have to pay more than €1,100. Faced with the investment that is made in the vicinity, which is absolutely insufficient, as we are... in close proximity and in half distance, that we are seeing that it is absolutely dementiaal. Just like now, instead of 6 hours 20 that it took before the pandemic to go from Bilbao to Barcelona, it takes 7 hours. And the same goes for the Madrid line, which, instead of 4 and a half hours from Bilbao, is currently more than 5 hours late. It's something that totally cries out to heaven. And we say the same, and we do that critic and autocracy on our side, we do the same thing on our side, we get the alcuute part of the nuestara, how the state budgets are almost 80% dedicated for a high-speed train. It is therefore up to us to reverse this situation. It is good that we have a broad agreement in the defense of this line, that as much as we are going to make another line that connects the capitals at some point, that also does not have to be a high speed line, but it can be a high performance line, that, first, it is cheaper, second, it would cost less time also to realize it and surely we would get it much sooner and could also vertebrate the entire basin of the cornice of the cantabria and not just the capitals. It is good that we have this agreement to boost the investments in the Bilbao-Santander line, currently existing from Renfe Feve in three ways: urging the current administrations that are the managers of the line to accelerate and boost the works that have to be carried out; we re-introduce the vest and we continue to have no news also of the plans of the Basque Government at the time when the transfer of closeness is made; eta baga ere oraingo ministeri, Adifi eta Renferi Santander-Bilbao trenbidea preszio eta ezaugarri egokiz hornitzeko neurriak hartu behar direla lehenbailehen line horren ebiltzaileak, Karrantza, Kantabriako bailetan eta Bizkaian eta Kantabrian, azken finan, erabiltzaileek zerbitzu hobea izan dezaten. And we also require these measures to improve frequency, improve information, improve information, improve the number of workers, and, of course, to work on electrocution. Yesterday the Congress also gave some details of the work, which we agree with what was approved. Let's hope this goes ahead as soon as possible, because they can't wait. The people who live in, the citizens of Carranza, Bizkaia and Cantabria can't wait another minute for them to end... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... As soon as possible, because they can't wait. The people who live, the citizens of Carranza, Bizkaia and Cantabria cannot wait another minute for the remaining investments in this line to end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u76	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Cyans, Mrs. Larre, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u77	Ladies and gentlemen. Today we come to talk here about the line Bilbao-Santander, 125 years old, which communicates Bilbao with Santander in a time of three hours. Man, as has been said here today, that is quite what could be done with another means of transport. And already months accumulating delays in the service, shortage of schedules and security problems, accessibility in (stations?), electrification, steps at the level, (...) and personal. All this has already been said here in the previous speeches. The People's Party has been accused of disregarding this line. This is not the case, because in 2012 the former minister Ana Pastor included in the government's infrastructure route, in 2012, the 2012-2024 project, by which this line was economically equipped with 530 million to modernize it and make it a line of proximity suitable for the neighbors from Cantabria – Santander – to Bilbao. However, this plan fell down by Mr Ábalos and left him for a new plan, for later, for the future. What's going on? Well, now that we're here, the moment we're here, there's been a pandemic, there's been restrictions and there's been... And now we recover the three trips that this line makes. But, of course, what's going on? That the injured are the neighbors. So yesterday, a couple of days ago, we approved in the Congress of Deputies the maintenance, which was about time, a good maintenance of this... Of these..., I'm left blank, of this line, sorry, thank you, the maintenance of this line, the electrification of some sections. Because they are necessary, because the neighbors of Encartaciones need it, and it has been seen. Therefore, this does not remove the fact that the maintenance is being carried out and that the information is being carried out, the planning of a project that has already presented this party that I represent right now in 2003. For what? To make a connection between Bilbao and Santander, passing through Castro. This was a demand from the Vizcains, and this is what is reflected in the project that we proposed. However, the amendment that I put to your proposal was simply to enter into negotiations because, as long as the problems of the neighbors of Encartaciones are not solved in order to travel, to be transported to Bilbao, it is necessary for the Parliament to implement transport services in other transport services that give them solutions: the taxi ticket; for those municipalities that do not have access to a bus line to reach what is Carranza or Balmaseda could use a taxi voucher to arrive and, in fact, to give them a necessary service, which they need so much, worth redundancy. What is clear is that it is interesting that we can reach an agreement and that we understand that what matters, what matters now is the needs of the neighbors of Encartaciones, who cannot continue to suffer the decline of a line that does not give them the proper service, the service that the population deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Passing the teams that don't run, the Mist Group isn't there. Basque Socialists, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good noon to all. Today we are discussing a non-legislative proposal on the Santander-Bilbao railway line bringing to this House the parliamentary groups EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita. And it could have been an initiative also presented by my group, the Basque Socialist Group. We would have signed it in all its terms if we had had the opportunity, but... because it is an initiative that was also jointly signed in Bizkaia, in Bizkaia Junta along with Basque Nationalists. But well, they didn't want to and I would like to start by sharpening the behavior to the members of EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita who bring this initiative. I also accept Mr Martínez's apology. And to focus the debate, I begin with the background of this matter. And it is that the Santander-Bilbao railway along with the Balmaseda-Bilbao railway are the only lines of metric width that remain competitively linked to the State in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. It is really a Greek, with a common trunk from Bilbao to Aranguren, and in this one it is divided into two branches: a branch towards Santander – Bilbao-Santander – and another branch towards León-Bilbao-La Robla. The Bilbao-Santander is electrified throughout its Basque territory, section Bilbao-Karrantza, not being electrified a section in cantabrian territory, specifically, Orejo-Karrantza. Because of this complete non-electrification, long-range services have to be operated by mixed locomotives, diesel, and electric. It has been and is a line in constant decay and disuse, especially in its Aranguren-Santander stretch, and affecting in a singular way in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country to the Karrantza Valley. If we can conclude, after the crisis of the COVID-19 and what we have experienced, is that mobility is a fundamental element for the development of the life of citizens. We have also seen that the result of the COVID-19 has been a series of... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ... mobility is a fundamental element for the development of the life of citizens. We have also seen that the result of COVID-19 has been a series of actions on collective means of transport. Some of them reducing frequencies, as is the case with this line, which has gradually been re-established. During the pandemic, regular services were limited to one or two services per day and meaning, with the usual services being recovered, four services per day and meaning on working days and three on holidays. In a debate, as has been pointed out here in the Congress of Deputies, the groups supporting the Government so asked the Minister of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda. It should be noted that the Balmaseda Bilbao route lasted 55 minutes in 1980, while in 2019 the average duration is 77 minutes. It was also requested in that debate that the service be faster. And in fact, the Government of Spain, through the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, awarded an informative study to establish a Bilbao Santander line in 40 minutes. The Socialists are also committed to accessible, sustainable and quality transport, which gradually replaces private transport. And for this we know that there must be constant improvement, revision and investment in transport which make this possible. The railway line linking Santander with Bilbao, in fact, is one of the public transport options with which the region of Enkarterri has to approach Bilbao. An option that is more sustainable, that is more respectful of the environment and that should be a usable option for the citizens of the region. But those who know it, those who have used it, know the drawbacks with which the line counts, which are many and this relegates to this medium as one of the best options in choosing it. In particular, it has already been said here that there are few frequencies, infrastructures that are not in good condition for maintenance and maintenance. It seems that most of the groups agree on what... in the diagnosis, and of course, in what we have to do little by little to recover those frequencies and make it faster. And in whatever it is to improve the service, that allow the reduction of the trip, improve the rolling stock, trains and electrification of the section Orejo-Karrantza, they will find us the Basque socialists. But also in the need to go further with a comprehensive plan, with urgent measures in favour of public, social and quality transport, on which are also the services we have to guarantee and how to guarantee them. Above all, focus on policies that improve the lives of citizens, of the vast majority of citizens, that all citizens of our country feel equal treaties, that have the same conditions and opportunities. Therefore, the competent administrations must be urged to improve this service. Negotiations need to be intensified to reach rail transfers as soon as possible and to take action both on infrastructure and on the service of the Bilbao Santander railway line. As I said at the outset, this would have been an initiative that my Basque Socialist parliamentary group had put forward and subscribed to in all its terms. We have not been given that option by the groups that have promoted it, but we will vote in favour. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u80	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Eubertarians, Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief, members of the legislature, to the good noon. Well, today we have another proposal of EH meeting and sharing with each other as described by Podemos. but I do not know what is best for you to say, and I will tell you now why; On the 20th of October, despite the months and a half ago, in spite of the gesticulations of the Central Biscay Council, PSE, EH Collect, and a signed agreement by Podemos to-day, you alone must have signed us outside, an agreement between us. We've been prepared for the ways we've been running. But you can decide to do it between us, to close us outside, and really don't understand. Why isn't it the first time, huh? It is not the first time in other instincts that a treaty was made among them brought here to you by the way in which you go. But if that's for you to play clean, at least it's not our style.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u82	Just a second. Translation system doesn't work. I'm sorry, right?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u83	Yeah. Bai? Bale. Well, geek joango naz. The railway by which Santander and Bilbo bind themselves is important to say that it is the jurisdiction of the state, and that it has long been owing to the extreme want of it, and that this bad condition has been increased by the modes which it has said. It is to this day that we have returned to the state of panic, as to the frequency of trains, but the error of the railway between Bilbo and Santander, which is essential to some people like the town of Biscaia, the setting of the quality required in the contract between Ministerya and Renfe. The service is not a good one, it has been explained, and is going in the opposite direction of the object of general interest; that is to say, contrary to the purpose of abolishing the population of the country. That's how we state members of our party in Madrid to the Minister Raquel Sánchez, at the end of September, of an interchiox made, of the places to be done, Madrid. And, in order to ensure the situation, he's given examples of how the trip between Karrada and Bilbo would last in 1910, and that's really a benefit to us. And besides the duration of travel, the condition of the railway is very bad: the stations, the laughter of the railway corridors, etc. In order to denounce this matter, there arose a platform of the various forms, the forms of which we have spoken, and we make ours its proclamations, and we shall be ours. Not just you, because we've had a lot of meetings on that platform. We believe that this railway is bound to a great extent to the future, and, without doubt, the future of the peoples. First of all, and this is important, by means of the forms of doctrines, of the railway, of other railways, of Madrid Governments, and to this day demand immediate modification of that jurisdiction to the government of Madrid. At the same time, and between the two, as long as the jurisdiction is transferred, it is indispensable that the improvement and the Minister of the service should be fulfilled, as well as as as as the frequency of the service, and as the infrastructure itself... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ... It is necessary that the improvements and the ministers of service should be fulfilled as well as as as the frequency of service, and as well as the improvements required by the infrastructure itself. This being the case, the Basque Nationalist Party has reached an agreement on this for the State's General Budgets. We have managed to accept two amendments to these budgets, that the State undertakes to analyse the level of services for the first quarter of 2022, in order to increase the frequency of the line, and, in addition, a budget of EUR 2 million to electrify the stretch between Aranguren and Karrantza. Horretaz apart, waiting for Honetan Bertan, the Basque Group achieves Congress support to improve the Santander Bilbao railway line, initiative of the Basque Nationalist Party in Madrid, urging the Spanish Government to continue the improvements on the Santander Bilbao railway line. I'm not going to read the whole as well as do dot, because it's a long one. But all the matters and mistakes you have spoken of yourself are proposed to the law. Where have you been while you were? Abscession to the other as well as the "EH Collectations." And in the meantime there is a text which we have agreed with all of them in the Supreme Assembly of Biscay, as if thou were here. I thought it would be a good idea to come here and take advantage of your messages to AHT to bring you to this tribe at any moment. But, well, that's not the point. And here we have it. Let's make a short statement. We've managed to insert two corrections into the budgets of the Spanish government. It has been mentioned who they are. We have managed to incorporate two amendments into the General State Budgets. On Tuesday we proposed a proposal on this dot, and Congress accepts the Absence of the EHG. On Tuesday, an initiative by the Basque Nationalist Party to improve this line was approved in Congress. Third, the interpelrogation of this meeting in Madrid to the Minister Raquel Sánchez, and a host of other assemblies which have preceded this affair in all discretion. Where have you been? The movement is shown to be moving. And I have just shown that our Basque group in Madrid, where it should be in this case, continues to work and achieve agreements for the improvement of this Bilbao Santander line. I don't know if the rest can say the same thing. I don't know what sense it is, really, for everything I've been saying today about bringing this thing. But, no, we're going to vote for it. We could have signed a text in the great councils of Biscavia, as we have been able to make it, and as it has been made clear by the Jelt Party, in the work of our own accord in the works of this treaty at Madrid. I don't know if others can say the same thing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. Passing the answers, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u85	Good afternoon again. I didn't expect this argument to be that interesting. Poppstular parties in their corrections, in full correction, proposes a bus line and not mentioned the bus when they speak their word. That's one of them. And on the other hand, we are angry that we are all going to vote, and we are angry with them, because we have brought in another like the representatives of PSE and EAJ, without telling them. Maybe if we tell the whole story about what's going on around this train maybe we understand why we've done this. For we by rule entered into another proposal in the Supreme Assembly, May; and you two weeks afterwards entered another, upon the same subject. You two. With a point added, of course, by entering a high-speed train. What are you telling us that we're entering the high-speed train? You have put him into this discussion above the things he proclaims platforms. Look, look, look what you got. And then when we discussed the middle of the line, of course, which must be discussed, not what we had previously presented, we managed, with great difficulty, to remove from it the remark of a high-speed train. Then agree, because Mrs. San José told us that Arangura's Karra is electified. And you told us, Mrs. Ipiñazar, that you've managed the same line of identifying two million. So, settle down. We'll really support your suggestions in Madrid if you find them interesting. And, for example, the partial companies you managed to get Santander Bilbao online are very interesting in budgets. That's not two years ago, I'm sorry, two days ago, because everything's been pretty sad, too. We began talking about it the second week of October, like all the teams, together with another: Más País, Podemos, PSOE, PRA, Partado Regionalist de Cantabria and you. What did you do? As a matter of your own, enter another. That's what you did. And what have you done in the middle-line correction? Put the high speed train back in. And now come over here and tell us that we can't talk about a high-speed train on this subject. Read the sixth point of the midpath correction. You've put in a high-speed train. So thank God we all vote for it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u86	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours. Together Podemos-Bezzerzia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u87	Yeah, well, what I said when I took the first word. Yes, we did, we took the agreement of the Bizkaia General Councils. I think that Mr Fernandez de Betoño has summed up quite well what happened, it is also in the minutes of the Bizkaia General Councils debate, to see what happened. I don't understand you... With the mask I don't know what you're telling me... And what happened in Congress. What happened in Congress is that we were several groups, including... [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]] ... and what happened in Congress, what happened in Congress is that we were several groups, including the Nationalist Party, the Basque Nationalist Party group in Congress, (?) of the Basque group, because there are more Basque deputies and deputies in Congress. I still don't know what they're telling me on different sides. So, there was a negotiation there, a joint initiative was being negotiated on a subject that regarding the Bilbao Santander line, which is what concerns us all and everyone, I think we agree, and there was a unilateral action by a specific group that is legitimate to register a PNL, which was approved yesterday without our signature, but with our support, because we did not agree with the last point, because we are talking about the Bilbao Santander line that vertebrates the entire Carranza Valley and the Cantabria valleys to Santander from Bilbao and we are not talking about another infrastructure, which is the Bilbao Santander line, which can (?) be on the cantabrian axis, but it doesn't have to be, and I say again, and our position at this time is that it doesn't have to be the high-speed train, but it can be a high-performance line than a Bilbao Santander with another type of price in what is the execution of the work and that it vertebrates much more the territory. And in view of this situation in the Congress of Deputies, because yes, listen, alert, we are going to bring the debate to the Basque Parliament and the only thing that... and I apologize in that sense again to Mrs San José, who from the very first moment has shown willingness to agree on this initiative. But it does answer, yes, it is a preventive GNP to bring a debate and a consensus that had been reached in the General Councils to the Basque Parliament in that sense, and in that part, in that part, I do not regret at all that I have brought that debate to the plenary of the Basque Parliament. And this is what I wanted to say in the second round and also to the People's Party, if we have not accepted the amendment, at least for our part, it is because there is already a bus and taxi service already there, unfortunately, because what would have to be a train service in condition and all the palliative measures that the Parliament has to put in place and that we also have to finance more and better the City Council of the Carranza Valley, which also assumes much of what it should not take, because it does not have the competition in transport, because also, but what we have to focus on is improving the train line, the rest are palliative measures that can be put in place...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u88	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u89	That they can continue to be financed and implemented, but that they are not the subject of the debate, which is to improve the line. And I remain to end this consensus that I hope that more than encouraging will be almost exigencies for the works that are approved and then also everything that was approved in the initial draft Budgets and that amendment that has been approved or will be approved from the General Budgets of the State, because it is carried out as soon as possible, because already the neighbours of Carranza have been waiting for too many years for improvements in this line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u90	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Companion of the popularCulaans, Mrs. Larre, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u91	We do not avoid the need to maintain the Bilbao Santander line. What I want to say is that as long as this maintenance is done, it will be necessary to provide the neighbours with an adequate service. That was my amendment. I want to say that the proposal we made with regard to improving or creating a high-speed line in Bilbao Santander, passing through Castro, is to meet the needs of the neighbouring Vizcai. This does not mean that we have to leave and lose infrastructure that is already in place and that they should have had adequate maintenance. Therefore, what we are going to do is abstain from the initiative presented, knowing that there has to be maintenance, but we also have to meet all the needs of the neighbours and among them is the Bilbao Santander line passing through the cantabrian coast.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Basque Socialists, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u93	What has been done here and what has been done here has been to bring an initiative that had been agreed upon by all the groups at Bizkaia Councils and you have brought it alone. That's why we're angry. But the debate must be focused. That is, here we are not talking about what has been done in Madrid, what has been done together, what has been done anywhere, the debate is the improvement of infrastructures and services, and it is true that Bilbao's connectivity with Enkarterri is clearly improved, but as you know perfectly well, this is a competence of the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda of the Government of Spain. And to Mrs Larrea tell you that since 2011 no new trains for these services have been offered or received by Renfe. I repeat, since 2011. And with regard to your amendment, indeed, as Mr Martínez has pointed out, we are talking about a railway line, not a bus. I think, well, that everyone knows what their priorities are and negotiates on the basis of them, on the basis of them, but the resources are certainly not unlimited and there are always more needs than resources. But, of course, I believe that the will of the Spanish Government to promote such sustainable mobility, to promote rail services and, in particular, public services and community transport is clear. And I think we're on the right track. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u94	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Euneraries, Madam Ipiñazar, are your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u95	Bai, eskerrik asko berriro was legebiltzarburu andrea. Lehen ez dut eduki denborarik Larrea andrearen emendakinen inguruan komentatzeko, bathe well, in this case I agree with Mr Fernández de Betoño. In his amendment he commented on setting up a bus line and in his defense he did not even mention the word bus... [[End of tape 42]] [[Begin of tape 43]] ... In his amendment he commented on setting up a bus line, and in his defense he did not even mention the word bus. I think your amendment is where you're going, apples I bring, because the problem is not solved by setting up a bus line, if Bizkaibus already has lines to Carranza. Lines, then, good, considerably good. And those of us who know more or less the area of Carranza also know that the roads and roads of access to that municipality because they have many difficulties. And taking that into account too, the Bizkaia Provincial Council is going to make improvements on that road in different stages. With this, you see that where we have competence we act. But, I insist, that's not the problem. The problem is that we have a railway line that needs urgent improvements, there is absolute leeway on the part of Adif and on the part of Rene, and that is why our group in Madrid is working for it. Beyond declarations and signing agreements in Basque institutions, they don't move to where they have to move, which is in Madrid. Ze, Fernandez de Betono jauna, zertarako balio du platformeren hitzak edo aldarrikapenak jasotzea, gero behar direen lekura ez badira heroaten? Say dotat, don't let the state budget do you credit in order to improve this line. Then I don't know, I've received proclamations, but then these proclamations must be taken to the place where they eat at the imaginary dots, or else it's no use at all. What we have done, on the other hand, what we have done, is believed to be clear of the fact that we have to work in the place where we are actually working. And, well, of course, yes, we're going to give this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. Now that the discussion is over, we'll put EH together and together the original text of our proposition as well as that of the Podemos-Edemes-Bezzerz teams together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 68; votes given, 67; supporters of 63; contraries, 0; abstaining, 5; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0; white,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-02.u97	So the original text has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at two and thirteen o'clock in the afternoon.
