ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I inform you that the sixth point has been left for another, and that 31 lords have inherited the vote. First point in theme list: "Motion, represented by the members of the Pazis Garcia Ortega EH Team, the thread of the first of May for the proclamations made by the euscal unions in the field of work. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Garcia, the representative of the EH Group. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u1	Good morning, everyone. In the first of May, the eucalyptus unions, in many mutations and callings, sent several messages, declaring that they should obey the promise they had given them. Logically, the proclamations in the field of work and employment were principal, and we directed the interpenetration of the Land and Empulgus two weeks ago to the Mountain of the Idol. That's what we were asking him about, "What's the purpose of the funk of the first of May to give a proper answer to the proclamations of the euscal unions, and what the Government intends to defend the job, and to promote a social employment." Well, we bring our proposal this time of year. We believe that in these decisive times it is necessary to promote the bond of high employment, to prevent the preparation and the growth of the prerogative which has prevailed in the trade. A political, syndicate, syndicate, and socimonical alliance must be established by the contributions of political, synthesis, and socimists of employment. This proposition is not new; and at the beginning of this legislation we proposed the necessity of this treaty, by the hand of the Basque People, from the hand of the Chotha, and we continue to think that it is necessary to anticipate the great challenges of the people as a people. And, well, it seems now, now that you vote against it, you also see the need of it, and it's a pity you've wasted so much time. But, well, that's what I'm saying, because next week, the government's going to run a pact for 2030. In the correction of PNV and PSE, it is expressed that it is necessary to encourage the strategy of the 2030 Euscal Empulgue, and we can't engage today to protect or encourage this strategy. And this for a simple reason: because it has not yet been discussed, that is what we will do on Monday, so we have not yet had the opportunity to make our proposals and contributions. Therefore, until this discussion is made, we cannot either encourage or protect this strategy, as is required in correction; and, as is said, future. We believe that this bond for employment of quality, which we propose, has necessarily two preconditions; one, abolishing the form of labour, and the 21st. the second, to build a new model of the working-place; and, in order to set up the strong, integrated public policy, both active employment policies, both passive and passive, in order to be able to carry them forward. As we explained to the head physician, the Basque Country is the opinion of the Collector to abolish the form of work. And for that purpose, there's the deal that Collecte signed a year ago with the Spanish Government. In the first of May, as the unions have declared, we believe it is time for change and agreement, and as the unions said, es lea de cumplor. There are many reasons for abolishing the form of the work, and I am sure we share many of the chief departments and many of the people here. After all, the majority of this legislature agree that the previous crisis has been a pretext for the preparation and speeding of the life of many employments and people. I mean to speed up the processes, because before the work-form, the job quality wasn't good, not even. So the work-reform has served to speed up the premification and the process of impoverishing the workers. And this is what we have to change. The job has to get its social value back. The occupation must cease to be merely a work-cold. The agent, as far as he is a right, cannot be left under the cultivation of the work. And that requires that employment be placed first in the political agenda. But this form of work, in addition to the suppression of rights, made the work-related instrument, the collective negotiation, compromise. Thus the pretoric model of association is formed, founded on one-sided company. No doubt because it is the other end of the work-form to weaken sydicism and eliminate protagonism. As we said in our interpelation, it is also to defend the collective negotiation within our circle. All this, because when labour reform includes measures aimed at the stateization of agreements and the consequent centralisation of areas of negotiation, it means losing one of the few instruments we have in our Community to regulate working conditions. And that is why I want to insist on this idea, which I raised on the day of the inquiry: that defending the Basque framework of collective bargaining is also defending the self-government and the work of Basque business and trade union organisations. And the defence of this Basque framework for collective bargaining is not reflected in any of the amendments tabled. Moreover, social dialogue is strengthened at the state level, which makes social dialogue in our area a subsidiary table with little content, which probably helps to understand the absences at that table. The PNV-PSE amendment aims to restore the balance of collective bargaining, but I would like to recall from what I said earlier that the balance that breaks the labour reform is not only the balance of the enterprises indicated, but also the territorial one. And, therefore, it is another element of labour reform that needs to be corrected and that is not even mentioned in any of the amendments. Last week, on questions from the representative of Euskal Herria Bildu in Madrid, the third vice-president and minister of labour, in a control session, has recommitted to the repeal of the labor reform and has set the end of the year as the deadline. We agree, but this commitment must be fulfilled as soon as possible, because for many workers it can be late. And I am thinking of the workers who want to dismiss the BBVA, those of the PCB company, whose dismissals have been declared void by a court ruling, or the workers of Tubacex, on an indefinite strike for more than 100 days against the ERE and in defense of employment, or the workers who now want to fire H&M. I am also thinking of all those workers who are still at ERTE today and who need, given the uncertainty in which they find themselves, that in the next phase they may be shielded from EREs of mere business convenience that promote labour reform. That is why it is urgent to repeal it, and that is why we believe that we have already wasted a lot of time. And, therefore, it seems to us that it is not enough to say, as stated in the amendment by Podemos, "to express its support and commitment to the announced derogation". We support the repeal, not the announcement that it will be repealed. The same is true of the amendment by the parties of the Government, when they say that they are asking the Government of Spain to continue to develop its commitment to put the labour reform into effect. We do not know how we can continue to develop a commitment that has not yet been fulfilled. As the unions claimed on 1 May, it is time to comply with the agreements, especially when a year has passed since the signing of the commitment to Euskal Herria Bildu to repeal labour reform. But when we ask to repeal the labor reform, I said it on the day of the inquiry, we are not saying that we have to go back to a previous situation; it is true that we have to recover rights that have been suppressed and we have to incorporate new ones. But above all, it is necessary to rethink a new model of labour relations of the 21st century. A new model of labour relations that is faced with major challenges such as the ecological transition, the digital transition, and the social and feminist transition, I would say. The Spanish Minister said that it was necessary to do so. because the state of the working-in-the-century is old-fashioned, founded on industrial and bladder models, and does not respond to actual reality. And, as I said last day, I agree with this reflection, but this state of the underlying workers does not agree with the socitual and synthesis of the social reality, because the State of the present workers rests on the model of social relations which negates other socialities and beliefs. 21st in this new example of the workings of the century, the sociational and synthesis must be a direct protagonism. We must choose to discuss it ourselves, and to determine it here. the code of the century, the line of our team with EAJ on the basis of the text of the principles and principles agreed on in Autogron. We think it's painful and hard to admit it because we don't accept it. that in the construction of the construction of the working-place, euscal syndicateism, corporations, and the legislature should be a mere spectator. We want to decide here, we want to decide our work here. We proclaim the Euscal camp for our work purposes. The rules introduced, both of Podemos and of the Government's games, instead of extending the way to the Euscal district for the purposes of communications in the time to come, promote the dispute, do the opposite. As I have said before, they strengthen the stateal frame of working relations, and we are not agreed. The second basis of the bond for employment, which we propose, is the strong and integrated public policy, which will unite active and passive policies, to start them. We have the usual problems on the table that have become chronic, and the chronics are now more raw. The other day, after hearing the counselor, I think the differences are not in the diagnosis of the employment situation. In fact, we basically share the diagnosis contained in the Basque Employment Strategy 2030. Since the beginning of the pandemic, we know that we are living in times of even greater uncertainty for employment, so it is going to be more necessary than ever to put people in front of the market, and to protect them from loss and/or lack of employment. And this is also called having passive employment policies. It's not like we thought about it, you thought about it in 2017, and so it was ratified in an agreement signed in this Parliament with the groups that support the government. Councilwoman Artolazabal told us in June 2019 that there was a new opportunity to transfer passive employment policies. He told us that it was a priority that had been set by the Executive, because these policies encompass key aspects to improve the quality of employment. He was talking about a historic demand from the Basque executive. Finally, you will have to explain it to us today, especially to you, the ladies and gentlemen of the PNV, because, in truth, this sounds like resignation, and of the fat ones. Because none of the amendments mentions the need to have the competence of passive employment policies, which, as has been said, was part of a historic claim by the Basque trade union movement, and also, as has been acknowledged, by the executive itself, by the governments so far. I must therefore express a certain level of disconcertingness, and even concern, above all, about the opposition of the PNV, if it is that after a long journey of demanding passive employment policies today it will vote against. And in the end, we're asking that if you're in the second place, we're going to have funk to promote the contract for employment, and even the negotiation of new tools and hands which are needed to accomplish it. 21st Our challenges in the employment of the century cannot be handled. with the same instruments of the century. It seems to us that the indispensable condition of a contract in favor of employment is to abolish the form of work and new frames, so that we can decide here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together Podemos-Nozzerza. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u3	A decade after the last clear offensive of capital against the working class and its rights – and after being aware of the essentiality, the fundamental role of that same working class for the maintenance of society and the economy – to listen to the voice of the workers, through their class unions, and even more so to shape a positive response from this Parliament to its messages of May Day, it seemed to us a good political proposal, and it would seem to us to be a first-class political act on the part of this Parliament. The implementation of the policies promoted by capital in our country since 2010 has been precarizing the workers and destroying rights conquered for many years with their struggles. In particular, this offensive was shaped by the labour reforms, the one of the year 2010 and the especially hard of the year 2012 of the People's Party, but also by the widespread reduction of wages, by the aggression on pensions and by the criminalization of workers' struggles and the trade union activity of workers. During the recent time of confinement, last year, we experienced what was perhaps, in my opinion, the greatest mobilization of our history in terms of recognition of the workers, when millions of people came out to applaud their windows at eight o'clock in the afternoon. First to the public health professionals, but, little by little, to the workers of the rest of the public services, to finally recognize also cleaning workers, cashiers of supermarkets, distributors of food at home and so, little by little, to workers of many other sectors. It was visible something that has never ceased to be a reality: without the working class there is nothing, without the working class there is no economy, without the working class there is no generation of wealth or public services or nothing at all. In our opinion, therefore, as a society, we have a debt to the working class that demands moving from the moral or formal recognition of these applause to the effective recognition through the transformation of a world of work characterized at present by precariousness, to one characterized by decent, stable, rights-based and well-paid employment. And that will not be possible if production relations based on an unequal correlation of forces between employers and workers are not changed. Policies that seek to guarantee quality in jobs cannot deny this either deliberately or naively. This is a starting point for us, because job insecurity does not respond to accident or inevitable atmospheric phenomena. The precarious working conditions, the impoverishment of the working and living conditions of the workers we have known in the last decade, are responsible for and respond to specific interests, the interests of capital, interests that have been passed over the working and living conditions of the working class and that have also been translated into legislative formulas that have facilitated this. The demands put forward by the trade unions last May 1st have come to demand this objective, precisely, and they have done so by putting on the table the proposals, the specific issues that need to be transformed. That must be the objective, in our view, of the response that this Parliament should give to the message given by the trade unions and workers this past May 1st: to support their demands and their objectives, if that was the idea of the initiative, which, as I said, seems to us to be a good proposal, to do this on the part of this Parliament. This is what we have tried to pick up in our amendment to the whole of an initiative that was entitled "On the demands in the field of work made by the Basque unions in relation to the First of May". First, if we see what the demands of the class unions have been, we must change the framework of labour relations in order to put an end to the unacceptable position of privilege that the 2012 labour reform gives employers over workers. The ultraactivity of the conventions must be recovered. This is a fundamental tool that has given an unprecedented advantage to the employer class in this country in recent decades. Sectoral agreements must regain their reference of minimums. That is the reference that Mrs Pazis made when she said that none of the amendments contained the breakdown of relations, also territorial, which she explained. None of the amendments does, nor does their original initiative do, because it is part of labour reform. I believe that your initiative, like our amendment, raises this repeal of labour reform, on which we absolutely agree, and which affects precisely this. This is one of the points that should be withdrawn from the current legislation. Because, indeed, in most sectoral agreements – which, by the way, in Euskadi, most of them are provincial in scope, although they could also be autonomous in scope, but not too many are signed – it is an element, indeed, fundamental. To bet on ending this labour reform is to bet explicitly on that too, even if it is not collected more explicitly, I believe, in any of the amendments, it is true, but I do not believe that it is in its original initiative either. Control over collective redundancies, a very important issue that we are seeing in some examples, some have been put by Mrs Pazis, others like those in Tubacex, etc. To regulate contracts and subcontracts, something that is sometimes also forgotten, but is also there. Control of the semi-applications of collective agreements, etc. But also beyond this labour reform, in which we are committed in its withdrawal..., not in the announcement of its withdrawal, but if it has not been withdrawn, then I cannot do anything else at the moment, but, of course, our commitment is that, in the Government of Spain, and I have already heard on more than one occasion say that on the basis that it brings us we will comply with that. But other issues raised by the unions on May 1 must also be addressed: raising wages – that is through the rise of the inter-professional minimum wage to 1,200 euros, as required by the European Social Charter –; improving the system of unemployment protection, because in capitalism we are not going to know zero unemployment, we have the competences of passive policies – which we have always defended for decades, historically also in this Parliament – or we do not have them; and the pension reforms of the right, because this is also an issue that concerns the contributions of the working class of this country. But, secondly, the Basque Government also has a fundamental role to play, both in ensuring the quality of the country's jobs – something about what we think in the last parliamentary term was nothing or practically nothing, with very little momentum – and in ensuring that labour rights are respected, where my coalition has always claimed that the tools we have must be resized, because the labour market we have is a real jungle, where it is often impossible to stop its shortcomings because of the lack of resources, not so much because of the lack of competence in this case but because of the lack of resources made available to this end. But we also think that the Government must have an active attitude in defence of the working class in conflicts, and that is something we include in our amendment. In the face of the demands of May Day we believe that workers, workers, trade unions, too, are asking governments to get wet, to get wet in conflicts that do not generate them, they are conflicts that exist, a product of labour relations, of production relations, and we think that one of the demands that are also on the table is the demand of governments to get wet with the working party, which is something that we constantly miss on the part of this Government, and we have said this on more than one occasion. We have therefore tabled an amendment which we believe reflects the demands that we have heard from the trade union centres this past May 1st, and, above all, which reflects the common denominator of the demands of the different trade union centres that have been expressed as every year this past May 1st. Today is a good day, today was a good day for the approval of an initiative to respond to workers, as you know, surely...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u4	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u5	I'm done, Madam President. Today, 90 years have passed since a historic event in the workers' struggle in this country, the slaughter, in Ategorrieta, of the fishermen's union workers and workers. This afternoon we have an act, and there will speak a good friend of mine, who taught me practically everything I know about unionism. His grandfather was shot twice there, and today is the 90th anniversary of that fact. Today is a good day, it was a good day to give a positive answer to the workers; even if there is no agreement, I think we will give an answer, each from their position.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u6	Thank you. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. On the eve of May 1st I had the opportunity to ask an oral question to Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia, in which I pointed out precisely the importance that the date of May 1st has for socialists. And it is that for my group and for our party it is a special date, because the first time that Basque society was called to demonstrate was at the initiative of the Basque Socialist Party, 131 years ago. Two years after it was conceived this same date by the II International, four years after the reduction of working hours was claimed in Chicago, and four years after the founding of the first socialist group in our land, which makes us the party with the most roots in this land; this year we have fulfilled our 135 years. And that question I asked, in which I was talking about the importance of May Day, was precisely linked – and not by chance – to the Basque Employment Strategy 2030, in which next Monday we will be able to discuss and contribute by means of motions for resolutions, as the Vice-Lehendakari promised. Because May Day is a day full of symbolism, yes, but as I also said, May Day was also the first step for the causes of the most vulnerable to reach institutions and for the institutions to come up with solutions to their problems. The Socialists joined the first May First 131 years ago, and the answer was harsh, but it was worth it, because the consequence was the reduction of working hours. But it is that the Basque workers with this mobilization also became aware of the ability to change the conditions in which they lived and worked, and more importantly, they became aware of their ability to bring to the institutions public representatives who could change those conditions and give solutions to those who really were their problems. Today, workers are, of course, faced with issues and challenges that are very different from those of 131 years ago, in a world that is constantly changing and that the crisis has done nothing but speed up. And the socialists are at it, to give solutions, deeply committed in this legislature to attend to the urgent, which is the social rescue and the economic rescue of Euskadi, but without neglecting the important, which are the transformations of the whole world around us. Reading the initiative, rather than talking about the things we can do from Euskadi, it seems that we want to move the idea that nothing can be done if we do not alter our competitive reality or if we do not focus on issues that are not in the hands of this Parliament, and we do not agree: the debate that concerns the workers of Euskadi is not the competitive debate. From the Basque Government we are giving answers to many of the questions that are being asked by the unions at a festival as marked as that of May Day. And many of these demands lie within the Basque Employment Strategy 2030, which this Monday, at its own request, will explain to us the Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia in the Committee on Employment and Labour, and which, as you know, also at its own request, will be subject to debate and motions for resolutions by the parliamentary groups. And I think it is important that we do not miss the opportunity, because we agree that at this moment of great transformations it is necessary to push for a pact for employment of quality, inclusive and equal, open to all social and political actors. But that is precisely the Basque Employment Strategy 2030 that we are going to debate this Monday: a pact to prevent these transformations and changes in the productive system from increasing inequalities, a pact to open a new stage in employment policies, geared towards quality, inclusion and equality, and a pact to achieve a labour market model that contributes to the sustainable and equal social and economic development of Euskadi and that is characterized by providing quality employment opportunities, in equity, for social inclusion and human development. And all this from our self-government, from our competitive reality. And there are issues where, in fact, we agree that they negatively affect quality employment, such as the 2012 labour reform. But we are not going to decide that in this House, and we therefore urge the Government of Spain to continue to develop, within the framework of the social dialogue, the commitment to put an end to the labour reform of 2012 and to promote new labour legislation for the model of labour relations of the twenty-first century, and to develop a new status of workers for that twenty-first century. And other issues that are also reflected in the Government Agreement, which Mr Hernández is well aware of, between the Socialist Party and the United States, we can say, and which, of course, will be implemented. And other issues that have also been discussed in this Parliament, for example in 2017, as Mrs Garcia pointed out, in relation to passive employment policies. But that is not going to be decided in this Parliament either, you know that. It will be discussed when it touches, on the basis of a timetable agreed between the Government of Spain and the Basque Government that you all know. And that is why all those questions that are not up to us cannot prevent us from taking on the challenge of what is up to us directly, which is to offer today, not tomorrow or the past, and from here, from Euskadi, from this Parliament, the solutions that we can tackle within our own reality. See if we can do things that the Basque Employment Strategy we discussed this Monday envisages, for example, that active policies become a subjective right at the service of people to complete our welfare state. A new subjective right to training and activation, with the aim of ensuring that employment serves Euskadi's progress and social cohesion. In Euskadi we have known how to be at the forefront of rights, and we have done so with an intelligent use of our self-government. As Mrs Mendia reminded you, we have been able to transform competences into rights. That is what we did with the right to health and education first, then with the social protection system and later with that of housing. Ten years ago we assumed the competences in active employment policies, and today, what we propose is to turn these competences into a new subjective right that will improve the quality of employment. It is clear that we are still working on improving equality, decent wages, we have to recover lost rights and get new rights for workers. And for this we have a key commitment and tool: the Basque Employment Strategy 2030, which aims to seek that pact so that, in the next ten years, whoever rules, we have a fixed direction in the field of employment. And this, of course, appeals to the Government and also appeals to the groups we support the Government, but it is also appeals to the rest of the parliamentary groups. I sincerely believe that the concerns of the Euskadi workers are not the competitive debates. They focus on job demands and the demand that from institutions we continue to offer solutions to the real problems they face. And it's in our hands. This Monday all of us, in the monographic debate of the Basque Employment Strategy, will have in our hands the opportunity to decide whether we want to send a powerful message to the workers of Euskadi, adding in what unites us and offering among all the solutions that the workers of Euskadi demand of us. We will be there, and I trust that, moreover, the vocation that has been shown by all groups will be to add. I believe that this will be the most powerful message we can send to the workers of our country. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u8	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u9	President andrea, eskerrik asko. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all. Today Mrs Garcia has presented this motive to discuss it. This motion is the result of the interpenetration which had been transmitted to the President of the Mountain at the government's full control meeting. As I always do, I'd like to take a short examination of the interpelation. Indeed, Mrs Garcia presents the question to the Sailburu and structures it in three parts. A first part that we could describe as the lures. He tells us: "Some tend to criminalize the strike as a tool, some consider it inappropriate to strike, they tell us that fighting is not worth it." And for that you remind us of what is being celebrated on May 1st. I, Mrs Garcia, defend the legitimate right to protest and strike. I have exercised my right to strike when I have considered it opportune, on many occasions, and I welcome all the first of May, recalling what it means to advance in the socio-laboral sphere. But what I'm not doing, and I'm not going to do today, is chasing their false decoys. A second part, which we could call the main inquiry, coincides with the inquiry you recorded on May 10: "Zer asmo du Mendia andreak enplegua defendatzeko eta kalitatezko enplegua sustatzeko? What are your plans to respond to the reality of employment?" you were asking the counselor. And that's your question. But it also includes a third part, not in the letter of request for interpellation, but in the interpellation itself, which we could call the covered interpellation, in which you ask about an agreement..., an agreement or that which we do not know very well what it is, about labour reform or something like that, to which I will also refer later. But, as you know, we have also amended this issue to establish a position on yours. Those are the parts of your inquiry, in my opinion. You receive a full answer from the Sailburu on May 14, during the full check-in, and on May 17, register the motion. For me, the justification of motions is often of great interest, and it is usually a usual practice that I stress in the debates regarding their elaboration. It is no wonder that you have acknowledged the parliamentary work behind many of them, especially to your group. And I recognize that I also do so to seek certain contradictions. Your justification. "This Member of Parliament asked the Counsellor," she tells us about this, and quotes the subject. "Considering the response given to him as insufficient, he presents the following motion." At this point we have a first debate between our positions. What for you is an insufficient answer from the counselor, for me is a remarkable answer. I don't know if you write that justification as an automatism to go fast to the motion or maybe you didn't understand the Saulburu response. In any case, I don't think your argument is appropriate. You ask: "What are you going to do?" What are you going to do?". And she answers, "I'm going to do all this, I'm going to do all this in the field of employment, all this, along with you." Dokumentu beat erakutsi du. I believe that the approach of the motion that brings us here today is not very serious. Because to the question you ask, the "what will you do", the Sailburu answers that they, the Basque Government, have asked themselves many other questions, in addition to the "what will we do". Dokumentu beat erakutsi du. That I'm surprised that you say, "This, the strategy, we can't say anything, because it hasn't been discussed yet." Hey, they gave us the text. Something you can say. The Sailburu perfectly identified the main part of your inquiry, Mrs Garcia, and responded to it in a precise, comprehensive way and that I would describe as complete, quite contrary to your response as "insufficient response". And not only does he answer you in a remarkable way; he also gives you an invitation, invites you, your parliamentary group and all those who are in the seats of this House, to move forward on the rights of women workers. Dokumentu beat erakutsi du. It is already a step forward that we in our parliamentary group accept that invitation from the Government and introduce ourselves to that contribution exercise that we have, in fact, begun days ago, preparing the motions for resolutions. Personally, it also moves me to participate in having the unique experience of having collaborated in the elaboration of the previous employment strategy, in a scenario also of a very hard financial, industrial and employment crisis, and just when we were recovering from that we get this new pack. I therefore lend myself to working with an open mind, but with clear convictions, because, for me, employment policy is one of the key policies in any society, but not only because of the need for remuneration but also because it means the possibility of collective personal development. It is quality employment, as a means to develop the potential of people, creativity, innovation, imagination. Because employment, that inclusive quality employment that I want, is a fundamental tool for our companies to develop their full potential and bring prosperity to all, and that is from their commitment to society and within the framework of sustainable development. These major challenges are clearly reflected in this Government's strategy. I see in the Employment Strategy a vision of the present and of the future, a vision of what people who work in Euskadi need and a vision of what Basque companies need to get out of the greatest crisis we have ever known. Tools to get out of this crisis, which you have also referred to. On this issue, too, we have a clear difference of approach, Mrs Garcia. You tell us, and I will quote you: "It is difficult to get an idea of how we can get out of inertia until now from employment policies without having new instruments." "It's hard to do." Well, point one: we do have some new tools, as the Sailburu reminded you. Second point: we will create more new tools, as you can see in the strategy itself; as an example, pages 63, 64 and 65. Thirdly, there are tools that we already know, but we may not have explored them enough. But what worries me most about that date of yours is the attitude. Sounds to me a little bit like, "Until I have all the tools, I don't get to work." What does this remind me of? The shortage of tools has been a constant in the evolution of humanity. The overcoming of this situation is called ingenuity. We have tools, Mrs. Garcia; maybe not all we'd like to have, but we have tools. And the most powerful of our tools is the spirit of overcoming. I'm worried about that tactical defeatism that you seem to convey. Well, I'd just tell him that we've done it on other occasions, despite all those difficulties; and I'm sure we'll do it again on this one. Point it out, Mrs. Garcia! Settle down! There is no denying that the effects of the pandemic crisis on employment have been significant, but it is also true that there are forecasts of recovery for Euskadi that encourage us. Political action from public administrations will be decisive if we want to get out of this serious situation without leaving anyone behind, which is the objective. The Government is giving us a good start with the adoption of this initial text of the Basque Employment Strategy. The Government invites us, calls on us to participate in order to improve it even further. We, our parliamentary group, take the invitation and accept the challenge. We'll be here on Monday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u10	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing the teams that don't run, Mistto. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. We live at a truly complicated time. The unemployment situation, indeed, is unsustainable, and the covid has touched our entire productive system by generating problems that, in many cases, have been insurmountable. However, we cannot fail to be impressed, really hurt, with the traditional trade unions, with the large trade unions. The reasons are very clear: they have dedicated themselves to fighting the labour reform of 2012 and are dedicated to asking for public employment and more public employment, as if this situation, which we now have, would allow it in this crisis in which we are immersed. Trade unions have proven to have a double measuring rod that is unparalleled in the rest of Europe. This is the situation, which they have not called a single general strike, despite the fact that we have been in these and the other Spanish parliaments for nine months, also criticising the real disaster of the Spanish Government and the Basque Government. For Vox, the unions to which this initiative refers have lost all legitimacy. They no longer fulfil the premises for which they were created. They do not represent the workers, all of them, but act as transmitters of the left parties. A left which, by the way, has completely forgotten the interests of the Spaniards, of all the Spaniards, whether they are workers or entrepreneurs. On the contrary, it has put itself at the service of the globalist elites, elites in whose plans lies the absolute disaster of our productive fabric, the control of our way of life and the imposition of their beliefs. In short, since Vox we say no to this initiative and also not to traditional trade unions. Where you will find Vox is in the defense of the Spaniards, of all the Spaniards, and I think you are not in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u12	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Euscala Popularo-Ciudadnos's representative. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today, it is proposed to this House to make a declaration whose core is the request for the repeal of the 2012 labour reform. The first thing to be said, of course, is that this issue is not the responsibility of this Parliament, since it is a decision that falls within the competence of the Congress of Deputies. It is not a problem that this Parliament is urging other parliaments or the government, as we have done so so many times, but it seems to me that it is possible to urge anywhere, but it is actually a question of using this Basque Parliament to demand the implementation of an agreement between two partners in Madrid. As has already been said, a year of the agreement signed by Mr Sánchez and Mr Bildu's Government was completed on 20 May, where it was expressly agreed to repeal the labour reform. And it seems clear that this proposal has the objective of calling on the Socialist Party to comply with this agreement. In other words, we are having a debate here in place of what should be done in the Congress of Deputies. Well, Mrs Garcia, you make complaints to your partners in Madrid that you consider appropriate and do not use Basque institutions to pressure Mr Sánchez to keep his promise a year ago and that he is still not doing so. That Mr Sánchez, in exchange for his support, who has come out so profitable, promised his party, with night and light, the repeal and another pile of prebends – to others he promised them pardons – and that he has not fulfilled any of them is his problem, not that of this House. Our position on the substantive issue, the repeal of the 2012 labour reform, is that it makes no sense, it makes no sense for us to consider repealing a labour reform that was called for by the European Union and that laid the foundations for the recovery of the 2008 crisis and introduced relevant aspects that have been crucial to maintaining employment during the covid crisis, such as ERTE. I do not know what would have been of our economy in this pandemic if we had not had a tool like the ERTE, which has proved to be not only useful but essential in a situation like this, and I would like to hear it recognized, because it is just. With regard to ERW, it should be said that it is not true that there are more workers in ERW due to this labour reform. In the last 30 years, for example, the year with the most workers in ERE was 2009, with 435,679 workers in Spain. In 2012, when the reform came into force, there were 19.3% fewer workers in ERE, and in 2019, 87.5% less. With this data, I do not believe that the claim that labour reform has generated more ERE can be maintained. And the repeal doesn't make sense either, because it can't be that every time a different government comes in, it repeals the laws of the previous one with a thick stroke and for ideological reasons. That is not the way forward, that is not the way it is built, that is not the way it works in Europe. But we do agree that the labour market needs reforms. Logically, there are new challenges now, and we will support the reforms needed to improve the law, but with the feet in reality and the look in the future and not in the past. We agree that there is a need for a new framework of labour relations, which, for example, changes the current attitude of permanent confrontation, which only destroys, through a collaborative attitude, more in the style of what is being used in Europe. And these new attitudes, we need to change them on the part of the Administration, but also on the part of the business and also on the part of the trade union. And we think that from this Parliament we should be able to push these changes forward. We also agree with the European Semester Recommendation Report, which indicates that the main current problems in our labour system are three: the high rate of youth unemployment, the high rate of temporaryity and the high rate of structural unemployment. We are European leaders in youth unemployment. In March of this same year, 37.7% of young Spaniards looking for work did not find it, compared to a European average of 17.7%, that is, less than half. Youth unemployment in the second quarter of 2012 was 53%, and as a result of labour reform it was below 30%. Of course, it is not enough, it remains a scandalous figure, but the solution is not to return to previous policies but to continue to implement reforms in this direction until the goal is achieved. As regards temporaryity, in 2012 the number of workers on a temporary contract was 34,5 %. In 2019 it was 25.9. Is it true that the solution you bring to solve temporality is to return to models that generated more temporality? And with regard to structural unemployment, in 2012, before the reform was implemented, the unemployment rate was 24.79 (practically 25%), while now, without counting the workers who are in ERTE, the unemployment rate is 15, and it still seems to us very much, we have a long way to go, but the solution is not to go back to past formulas that will not help us solve the problems of the present and the future. The labour reform presented in Europe by the Government of Spain is the so-called Component 23, which is called "New public policies for a dynamic, resilient and inclusive labour market". This labour reform consists of 11 reforms and seven investment proposals. In our view, a mix of reforms is proposed with good intentions, but not concrete, and some counter-reforms that undo improvements already made and demanded by Europe, while real reforms remain only in good intentions. We are referring, for example, to reform six, which is to make ERTE an instrument of permanent flexibility in which the worker forms as long as the contract is suspended, or to reform four, which is to simplify the contracts into three types and to adjust the temporary contract to be causal. These two proposals seem very valid to us, but, as we have said, they remain in good intentions. With regard to counter-reforms, mention should be made of reform five. The funds for training will be channelled through the failed model of subsidies that has so badly worked out in all the autonomous communities, and especially in Andalusia, with the corruption plots associated with the Socialist Party. And reform eight, which is the repeal of parts of the latest labour reform, the ultraactivity of agreements and the prevalence of company agreements – which I have the feeling that it is the hard core of the repeal – in order to give back to the unions their strength and that with it they continue to defend their own interests and their own survival, above the interests of workers or companies. On this subject, it should be recalled that, while the labour reform limited the ultra-activity of the agreements, shortly thereafter the Supreme Court settled the terms of the agreement not extinguished for lack of extension and considered that they should be considered as part of the working conditions proper to the workers who had been subject to it, which largely nullified the original meaning of the reform. With regard to the investments in Component 23, we are concerned about the lack of ambition to create young jobs. The objective of training 3,000 young people in three years, endowed with 120 million euros, seems to us to be a very small investment, far below what is necessary, having as we have more than 580,000 under 25 years of age currently unemployed throughout Spain. On the Basque Employment Plan 2020 I am not going to extend much, but I must say that the first concern I have is that the first news we have of the plan is through the contract that they signed on 21 July 2020, for 44,000 euros, with one of the cartel consultants denounced by the National Commission on Markets and Competition. I really hope that in a few years' time we will not have to talk about this plan as the offer for assistance to the operational programme ESF 2014-2020, which has been accredited, in number 76, in the judgment of the National Commission on Markets and Competition, or the contract for technical assistance for the monitoring and evaluation of the 2015 Employment Plan, by the way, awarded to the same consultant who was awarded the Strategic Reflection of Employment 2030. And finally, let's talk a moment about the disaster of the Youth Employment Shock Plan collected in Berpiztu. Initially we were told that we would have EUR 35 million, but when our parliamentary group asked for details, because the accounts did not seem very realistic or very clear to us, we were told that the investment was EUR 24,895,000; that is, without doing anything, 28.8% of the plan's budget had already been lost and the year had just begun. And, of course, the months passed and, according to the implementation of the items in April, only 4.6% of the budget has been implemented in four months. Therefore, at this point we have to tell you that having a plan, defining a budget and not implementing it is just as useless as not having a plan. But you continue to discuss the repeal of labour reform, because it is easier to point out what is not being done in Madrid when we are the first ones who do not do the duties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u14	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Passing on the answering round, Mrs. Garcia. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u15	Good morning again. I have to say that I thought that the terms of this motion were sufficiently basic and broad to have been able to reach an agreement. And, well, it is true that on Monday we have another opportunity to continue talking about employment, in the context of the debate on the 2030 Employment Strategy, but, today, what we bring in our motion, we have already pointed out that these are issues that we consider to be basic and essential for an employment strategy that is projected to 2030. And, as I have said, and I will now say more briefly, it is a pact in favour of quality employment, with the contribution of all the Basque socio-economic and trade union agents; this is already reflected in that Basque Employment Strategy – Mr Rico, in his intervention, also mentioned it –; calling for the repeal of labour reform in order to rethink a new model of labour relations; I think it is also shared that it is incompatible to present a strategy in favour of quality employment and to maintain an existing labour reform which pursues precisely the opposite; the need for a comprehensive employment policy, which requires that passive employment policies be called for (this should not be problematic either because, as I said, there is an agreement of the previous legislature, of 2017, and the PNV until recently said that it was a historic claim of the Basque Executive; today they have also said nothing about it, and there was a clear question: whether it is a waiver, and as I said before, of the fat ones); and finally, we have put forward a public leadership of employment policy, in which must also include new instruments of competence and skills. And, I don't know, here must have been the disagreement. With regard to Podemos, then, we may have missed a little time. And, well, Mr Hernández knows that the problem is not so much what to decide but where to decide. And it is important for us to decide this in our own sphere, because we think that in this century we must also lay the foundations for another transition, which is the transition to the Basque framework of labour relations. And then, with regard to the PNV representative, Mr Aiartza, I would like to remind you that you are not the Employment Adviser. I want to say that you have made an intervention here in response to an inquiry made to the Employment Adviser, who did, and you have responded to that role today and have deprived us of your opinion on what was raised in the motion, which you have said nothing about. And if the problem is the competition issues in order to respond to the most important employment challenges we have, I would like to say that it seems to me that the least I can do is to say that we have to respond to this challenge by pulling ingenuity and in the spirit of overcoming it, I wanted to understand it. And then, I do not know, in the future in which everything is going to change, an employment strategy that aims to be projected over the next ten years, we think that it cannot fail to raise the need for new instruments and new competences in the field of employment. Well, I'm going to ask you a direct question: is the updating of self-government not part of the challenges of this century? Well, that question, I'd like you to answer. El Senor Rico, there's some things that can be done from now on. And there are important challenges that are connected with employment, and it is possible to put them in action immediately. For, besides, we think that the Eplegu strategy must be what is said to be consistent between what is said and what is done. So you can start by providing the quality of employment which depends on the public Basque Administration. I shall also remember that there are more than 50,000 workers in the eucalypical administration, who are waiting for a solution to stabilize their jobs. There's an important opportunity for promotement of quality. And another, the public administrations must incontradiction guarantee employment of quality, not now that it is doing it, by default, price, for the quality of service, and for the conditions of workers. And it is true that, since this day, it is possible to do so. And we have the nearest examples. Otherwise, we can ask U.S. Agencys, SOS Calls, or the undercontradictions of Traffic, and we can ask them what conditions they have. And simply, but as I have begun, I want to say, we cannot forget that any public employment policy which aims to be of great ambition and independence must be able to answer the great challenges we have before us, and plan the necessary tools and means of handling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Together Podemos-Bezzerzia. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u17	Well, we're probably running out of time; well, surely, Mrs. Garcia. Of course, we have not had time with you, with your group, we have also had time with other groups, with the Socialist Group, to be able to address some elements in which we think that we could agree to send a message of response to what we heard from the workers and the unions, their unions, last May Day, which is what you were proposing to us. In any case, I would like to answer one question, because, if I have understood you correctly, you raise that debate between what is to be decided and where it is to be decided, and I understand the importance you attach to where it is to be decided; we know the position of Euskal Herria Bildu and the speech of Euskal Herria Bildu. For my parliamentary group, the fundamental thing is what will be decided on workers' rights issues, on the issue of the defence of the working class. On where of each question, we have always been willing to discuss. And on passive employment policies, which is one of the issues to which you make a very explicit reference in your initiative, always, of course, my organization, the United Left, in this Parliament many years ago has also argued that it agrees. Another thing is what exactly is the transfer of passive employment policies, that as with pensions, we have always argued that social security contributions are not owned by the State or the Autonomous Community, they are owned by the workers of all the countries of Spain, or as we wish to call them, by the different nations, nationalities, that make up this State. The contributions of the workers, the direct ones and also those that the companies make, that come out of the value of the workers' work, that we think they are owned by the whole working class and that they have an element of solidarity between them too, regardless of where they live. But, of course, there we are sure that we could also agree, because the fundamental thing, when it comes to giving an answer to the class unions, it seems to me that, in addition to hearing some speeches, is to combat those positions, those anti-worker speeches that we have heard today, mainly in the expression of Mrs Martínez and also Mr Gil Vegas, criminals, I would dare say, of the unions themselves, when they present or draw them as a kind of mafia with particular interests, because you have done that today. Trade unions are the legitimate representatives of the workers in this country. I have once said this: trade union elections have the same rank as political elections, and trade union representatives are elected by the workers. It does not make any sense of the things Mr Gil Vegas has put forward with regard to company agreements, we may disagree. Of course, for us, sectoral agreements are fundamental, but you accuse, take advantage to accuse the trade unions that defend sectoral agreements to defend what interests of their own. Precisely, the birth of the sectoral agreements was to defend precisely the workers who have the most difficulty in being in the unions, because the company agreements are easier to sign in companies where there is a trade union presence, in companies of more size, but they are precisely for all the small enterprises – and Euskadi is characterized by many such companies – small companies where the trade union presence is very difficult, so that they can be covered by collective agreements. Therefore, quite the contrary: sectoral collective agreements, what they seek is the improvement of the entire working class. And one more question, stop screwing around with the theme that the ERTS that are now being used to stop the unemployment impact with the covid are a thing of the People's Party. It is already known, the ERTE already existed before 2010, and the People's Party, what it did was to modify them so that they had virtually no control. And the ERTs that are now being applied by the covid to paralyse the sangria of unemployment are being made because also the current government of the state has made some modifications to those ERTs, in which the People's Party has voted against; therefore, tell the truth. For us, the important thing today was to give them an answer to the unions, which was what EH Bildu proposed to us. We believe that in our amendment we do so conveniently.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u18	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u19	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, I am going to thank the tone of almost all, of almost all, in this debate, because, well, there are some who, as Mr Hernández has just pointed out, seem to be arrogating issues that under no circumstances can be arrogated, as is the mention he has made to the ERTE. But in any case, focusing on the motion we have here today, I want to make some nuances to the proposing group. He said in his first speech that an important time has been lost because in November EH Bildu brought a motion in which he talked about the idea of a pact. I would like to remind you that in that motion, in which there was also a very pleasant tone for the debate, what we did not agree with was in the proposed methodology, that from the beginning we said that in the idea of that pact and of that agreement we were, and, in fact, we said that we were working on bringing in a document containing the strategy, the well-known strategy, which collected the contributions of the social partners, and discussing it here in this Parliament, in order to incorporate the contributions that the political groups can make. The idea of that pact, that agreement, to address the employment strategy has been a constant idea by the groups that we support the Government and by the Government itself. And, in fact, this Monday comes this strategy, although it is true that we have had it in this House for over a month and we have all been able to access it to prepare a debate that I hope will be enriching next Monday. I may be an anthropological optimist, not the first, in this Chamber there are also a few who have verbalized it, but I want to stay, precisely seeing that debate, in something I have seen positive: in the difference between what was the inquiry and what was then the motion itself. And Mr Aiartza pointed out a bit: if you see the question that was made, you wonder what this government was going to do. If you see the motion that has been raised, it focuses on what this Government cannot do, on what it does not depend on. Therefore, I, in that optimism, Mrs Garcia, will understand that EH Bildu of this Government appreciates positively some, at least, of the measures which the Basque Government can do have been put on the table. And I think we're gonna have rendezvous points, and I aspire to have those rendezvous points. I am glad that you have verbalized that, for example, in the assessment part of the situation of the strategy there are coincident points. And I believe that the most powerful message that we will be able to send to the workers of this country will be given in the committee next Monday. I believe that this starting point for the Basque Employment Strategy 2030 that has been put on the table, with a vocation that from the beginning Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia moved that it would be a debate for motions for resolutions by the parliamentary groups, is in itself that idea of a pact, that idea of incorporating from the government social agents and political groups that we make up this Parliament and, therefore, the will of Basque citizens, with the greatest number of actions that we can address to give a comprehensive response, which is what the workers expect of us. I have told you that the point at which we do not agree fundamentally in your motion is the fact of raising the idea or the doubt that nothing can be done about it if we do not have such powers, as you know, in the area of self-government. That is what I reply to: the Basque Government and the Government of Spain have a timetable that is known to all parliamentarians and to women parliamentarians and citizens. And there, on the basis of that timetable, it is up to us to talk about the issues that are raised. And he also says, "What if the labour reform is not repealed?". I absolutely agree with the need to repeal labour reform so that from the social dialogue we have new labour legislation suitable for the 21st century. And I also agree with many of the issues raised by Mr Hernández in his motion. It is that, in fact, they are taken out of the government program signed between the Socialist Party and the United Podemos. But – with this I ended – I told him that on May 1st the citizens of Euskadi became aware that they could take people to institutions who represented solutions to their problems. And the workers of Euskadi, I think they expect us to put solutions from our area of competence, without shielding ourselves from having to wait for anything, to the problems that are currently affecting them. This Basque Employment Strategy is the starting point, and I believe that this Monday will be a very powerful message that we can send to the workers of our country. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u20	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u21	Thanks again, ma'am. Mr. Gil, very briefly. He has already been answered on the subject of ERTE. They're not your invention, you know. Someone who has studied, learned enough of Labor Law already knows, and we have already talked about that issue, with which, another day, if you want, we will talk. Mr. Hernandez. Levels of demand. I have known you for years now: Government of the State, Basque Government... It has always maintained levels of demand for these high governments, I believe. Today, the Basque Government was saying, "You have done nothing in the previous employment legislature," but I see that the level of demand on the state government is falling a little bit. You put on a penitent face, a little, when you come, like in Tubacex's last appearance... It puts a penitent face, "Let's go late" – year and a half – "but let's see if we can...". Man, I think... keep the levels, keep the levels; self-requirement. Mrs Garcia, you set the margins of the debate, you say what you want to talk about. I have no problem talking about any issues. You set the margins of the debate: you make an inquiry and then, in the debate, on the way forward, you are raising other issues. I have no problem answering what you have told me, what you have asked me directly. In fact, I think... Okay, that's it. "Do you forget the update of self-government?". No, we forgot. It's practically an obsession. We don't forget. I don't know if he's worth the answer, but I don't have much more time. Passive policies. Look, I happen to have an agreement that was signed in this Parliament on March 1, 2018. Dokumentu beat erakutsi du. On labour reform. I have no problem talking about labour reform either. We already have our position. Derogation? Yeah. It is also, incidentally, in this agreement. The second point: "Derogation of the 2012 labour reform in order to reverse its harmful consequences for the quality of employment". Because it had a very high impact on the pension system. There's no signature. It is true that they voted in favour, but his signature is not there. Why isn't your signature there? That would have to be asked. It's not your signature because you were with someone else in 2018. You were someone else. He now gives us a master class on labor reform and tells us about a text they have, text marketing. I have this March 2018 text. Dokumentu beat erakutsi du. I'm not talking about 18 anymore. That light was made to us in the 18th, too. Today that historical milestones have been mentioned...-, that light was made to us in the 18th, after the legislative elections in the state on February 24, 1918, more than a century ago. The ones we sent there went to that. Hey, please. What were they at? Going back to work... No, no, his signature's not here. Could be Mrs. Pinedo's signature. He's not here. Yes, yes, Mrs. Pinedo's signature could have been. He's not here. Yes, one of these initiatives was Mrs Pinedo's. These are two initiatives that were brought together in his day. Going back to the subject of employment. You have a good quote, you, which tells us: "Need to give employment priority on the political agenda". The need to give employment priority on the political agenda. I suppose you refer to the Nagore Alkorta manual on these employment-related issues. Already, just to finish, he was also saying, "Encourage those who fight for employment." Encourage those of us who will meet on Monday and fight for employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u22	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Mist must not speak. Euscala Popularo-Ciudadnos's representative. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Well, we don't think this is a constructive proposal. And I believe that the debate has highlighted the need to overcome this dialectic of confrontation. I will therefore take advantage of the five minutes I need to build, to propose constructively what our proposals are on this subject of employment. We, as you know, bet on the single contract, a new stable and indefinite contract that protects workers and helps to put an end to job insecurity, because many Spaniards live with garbage contracts and without sufficient legal protection. This new contract will allow people to have a stable job, without having to be chaining temporary contracts. We are committed to supporting entrepreneurs capable of creating jobs. We bet on the Austrian backpack, a new insurance against dismissal, by which the worker will accumulate money in an account throughout his career, so that, in case of dismissal or retirement, the worker will be able to collect that accumulated amount or take it with him, if he changes his job. We bet on support for the self-employed and SMEs. We bet on reducing the tax burden on employment. It is contradictory that we are saying that we must end unemployment and at the same time penalize employment to the extent that hiring someone is discouraging. And we bet strongly on the continuing training of workers to ensure their employability; and we will do so with checks-training, so that it is the workers who choose where to train and thus prevent the training from becoming the dark, but profitable business of some unions. These are our formulas, successfully tested in some countries and in some autonomous communities, and for which we offer the help, help and collaboration for all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u24	Thank you, Mr. Gil. After discussion, we'll vote for Mrs Garcia Ortega's original text. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 44; 75; the supporters are 21; the contrary; 48 Absences, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u25	So, not allowed original text. After that, we'll vote together with Podemos-Nozzer's full-line correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 44; 75; the supporters, 6; the contrary; 48 Abstations, 21. whites; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u26	So it's not accepted. And finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the Eucalists in full-governance set up by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly, 44. 75; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 7; Abstations, 27; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u27	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "In the same manner as the parliamentary team of Podemos, Podemos-Nozzer, the culture, performances, and spectacles, may recover the sectors of Euscal Autonomy in the Esquire. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Angulo, representing the Animal Team, has the word to present and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u28	Thank you very much, Madam President. "Now I work as a teacher; I started as a sound technician in 2016. Little by little I got more jobs, getting to perform 87 bowls in 2019. Since March 2020 I've only been doing three." "I'm a free throw makeup artist, I work in events and audiovisuals. The pandemic has changed my floor, I've come home to my parents. I'm charging for help, although it only covers me for self-sustaining expenses and a little more." "The work has fallen 95% in events and 80% in shooting and shooting. I had to look for work to feed my family, and I was very lucky to find it. The uncertainty of the sector and its few work options do not allow me to resume my activity, because they do not assure me of a decent salary at the end of the month. Right now I don't see myself joining the event sector until 2022." I have wanted to bring here these three examples, among hundreds that have brought us from the world of events and shows, to, in a more visual way, make you participants in the living conditions that the world of culture has been facing since last year. I believe that these testimonies are very enlightening of the situation in which the sector is located and how the system in which they work does not have the necessary social protection. Although different types of aid have been tried and promoted since the administration to alleviate the covid disaster in this society, the exceptional situation with which the cultural sector is self-regulated has resulted in many aid not reaching and being left out, especially intermittent workers, who normally combine two and three different types of contract in a single year. It is the worst that is happening, this type of workers very specific to the cultural sector, and on many occasions they have not been able to receive the aid offered. They are not on ERTE because they are not unemployed, they work a few hours a week giving lessons (painting, music, what they play) or they are autonomous and they have quit nothing more start canceling all the events they had scheduled, so neither can they access this type of support. According to the report published yesterday by the Scientific Observatory for Icono Events14, "It has not been possible to protect an important part of industry professionals, mainly due to the intermittent nature of the activity. And, therefore, as of today, 47 % is not under protection coverage, with no income at all." Culture, which has been subject to constant budget cuts by administrations since 2008, is today one of the sectors that is most affected by the consequences, both at the economic level and at the level of employment. Cultural programming, which has been suspended for a long time, has stopped dozens of projects, and thousands of people are suffering its consequences. The health crisis we are experiencing has accentuated the precariousness and poor working conditions of a sector that calls on all public bodies to take urgent action. The cultural sector has survived through successive crises thanks to the enthusiasm of its professionals, but when the pandemic has left with its arms crossed to a large part of its components, this enthusiasm is not enough to be able to continue pulling the cart of culture, for what were previously life-saving obstacles have become enormous abysses where, despite the efforts made by the cultural sector and the Administration to save the situation, it has become unsustainable for many of its actors. This situation confirms the importance of the agreement that we have reached today from Elkarrekin We can with the groups that support the government to urge it to review the requirements of access to the aid that it allocates to the sector, including intermittent workers, so that they too can receive them. We are facing a sector with serious structural problems, but with great professionals. And while the solutions come to an end once and for all with this precarious work and from here we continue to ask for and expect measures such as the database of professionals of the culture or the status of the artist, we are glad to have reached this agreement. In Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unitida we understand that culture has an important political dimension, community building and coexistence, often invisible, but that it is essential to take into account if we want to push social transformation. Therefore, we propose another cultural model for Euskadi that puts culture at the centre of life. We bet on a less paternalistic and mercantilized model, and more feminist and citizen. We want a new cultural model that defends the rights of culture as one of our fundamental rights, that encourages cultural practices in all areas, professionally and amateurly, that serves to stimulate creativity and experimentation, and that serves to develop critical thinking. Therefore, our group is concerned about the universal access to the culture of all Basque citizens, whether as a public or as a creator or creator. This access must be understood as the possibility of formation, creation, use and enjoyment of culture, overcoming all kinds of barriers, both material and symbolic, and distributed throughout the territory. We believe that this access has been seriously hampered or directly impeded in this context of pandemic and socio-economic crisis. Therefore, we propose to overcome the short-term difficulties, such as cultural safe conduct, and we will continue to defend measures such as this within the framework of the Pandemic Management Act of COVID-19 that we are currently dealing with in the house, where we believe that the sanitary opening protocols necessary to guarantee access to cultural creation spaces, with a specific line of aid for adaptation and adoption of the necessary measures, should be considered. At this point, we want to pause to question what is going on with the Basque Council of Culture. It is not being summoned by the Basque Government. He's not playing any part. It is not that table of participation of agents that is claimed from the cultural sector. In our original initiative we proposed to convene it, but this proposal has not been successful in the negotiations. And it seems to us to be a very useful instrument. From our parliamentary group we believe that its configuration will have to be reconsidered in order to make it an operational instrument for the active participation of civil society, sectoral representatives and other cultural actors in the design of cultural policies. From Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we are committed to the development of a code of good practice that reflects the particularities of the different cultural fields and activities. This should be one of the products that emerges from a useful body like the one we want to be that Basque Council of Culture. We need spaces for meeting, for recognition between actors and for the implementation of concrete collaborative projects. But as these actions and initiatives like this are being implemented, which we have managed to agree on today, there are other types of actions that cannot be extended in space and in time. We highly appreciate the efforts being made from the municipalities and institutions to ensure that events are not cancelled and that all possible activity is maintained, but we also need to put in place immediate measures for music, for performing arts, in response to the anticipated losses due to cancellations of events and summer festivals that are not yet being programmed with the level with which they were programmed prior to the pandemic. Measures that include increased public procurement, payment in advance or immediately after the action or launch of campaigns to consume cultural activities by administrations, with special attention to small and local producers. In addition to the economic measures that we have already agreed to strengthen, we also want to point out from our group that we do not forget the importance of these measures being accompanied by specific programmes of another kind, which are more transversal, which promote quality employment in the cultural sector and which also combat precariousness and the gender gap. Young people who want to make culture their way of life should not have to fight against society for wanting to develop this vocation. To this end, we in this Parliament have recognized culture as an essential asset, and in this regard we must put forward forms of active search for resources, such as the application of 1.5% in culture, the development and application of the Law on Sponsorship and specific tax incentive plans in a coordinated way with the administrations – with the deputies, in this case – all of this in order to promote greater market dynamism and reduce access to cultural supply and to implement it in a real and responsible way for conservation, enrichment of cultural, material and intangible heritage, as well as for the promotion of artistic creation and cultural action, prioritising initiatives with a direct impact on the immediate environment, with cultural criteria and geographical balance in their implementation. We regret that all the elements have not been able to enter into the agreement that we have reached today, but we will continue to fight to achieve both the improvements that we have agreed today and those that we have not had the capacity to reach consensus. Finally, I would like to thank Mrs Zuluaga and Mr Alonso for their willingness to agree. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u29	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Passing over the teams that were running the corrections, representing the Basque Popular Group-Ciudados. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u30	Good morning. Thank you, President. Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Angulo. Well, this pandemic has demonstrated the weakness or vulnerability of this sector to which you refer, the sector of cultural creation, artistic creation, shows. And, above all, this weakness and vulnerability has been demonstrated by the imposition of what has been the restrictions of hours, times, confinements, mobility. Of course, all this has been quite lethal for many professionals in the field of cultural and artistic creation. We have also been able to see it and we have been told about it in this Parliament over the last few months. We have heard the workers of culture – you referred to them – and of the show describing their dramatic situation and making proposals to this House, also to other bodies that have to do with many areas, apart from strictly cultural, the labor sphere of economic promotion, also that of their claim of that still non-existent status of the artist that everyone has been talking about and has been talking about for a long time, but it has not just been realized, when it was an agreement, of course, absolutely majority and that had to be put on the table. All these things also a little tarnish the capacity of this whole world that moves around culture, around art, a world so heterogeneous but also so alive and rich. In the meantime, institutions, including the Basque Government, but also other institutions with competence in culture or also in the economy, in taxation, must be facilitating at this time. They must facilitate cultural recovery, artistic recovery, the recovery of cultural events, shows, exhibitions, all that moves around creation and that we all know: concerts, etc. And in that regard, institutions must be facilitators. And that facilitating role must be translated into concrete measures. It must materialize in economic support, it must materialize in incentives, it must materialize in promotional campaigns, it must materialize in information and programming channels, and that is clear that it must be done in a decisive way. Mr Angulo, my group has simply made an amendment to add to your non-legislative proposal because, basically, it seemed to us correct in relation to support for the cultural sector, with different proposals and measures that I believe were quite consistent; well, some somewhat outdated after a month, but well, it is clear that things had to go around in relation to the demand for government and institutions. I also thought that the underborn who gave the amendment to the whole of the groups supporting the Government would have gone up a little bit in a somewhat more determined transaction, a little more committed, but, well, it has not been so basically. If we can talk about a step, then it's also a step, isn't it?But the underborn has been installed as the element in the debate of this non-law proposition. And the transaction has remained under the guise of the whole amendment. You have spoken of the word "revise", but that word does not exist in the compromise amendment. There are others, but the word "review" some of the policies you have spoken does not exist in the compromise amendment. Anyway, there it is. If you consider it a step forward, then good; it will be good, or at least not bad. It has been a month, and it was normal, since the presentation of his initiative, to open up possibilities, also in that compromise amendment that was being offered. It has been a month, that is, there is more chance of opening up channels of encouragement to cultural creation, of doing so, in fact, through actions that we have already talked about in other initiatives in this Parliament. Let the LABI, which also does not come out in the transaction, because also its decisions will affect what is the development of culture, of the spectacle, of the cultural event, right? Well, well, that didn't show up either. In any case, we were presenting an amendment to add, a point number six, which I think was very important too. That is to say, we were not in any competition, but we were insisting, as the parliaments or the general councils urge the Basque Government, or as we urge the central government, or as the general councils urge the municipalities, because we were also urging the outside parliaments here, because they have a very important role to play in cultural matters, to take economic and fiscal measures in the use of their cultural competences and capacities to support the cultural and artistic sectors in their public expressions or in their performances and events. We thought it was an interesting constructive contribution. Well, it has not been possible also in the underworld of the compromise amendment to assume it, but, in any case, we do declare it from here as interesting; we also transfer it to our general meetings. And then there was another thing, within what is his initiative, which has also worried us, because, if something was easy, it was to get involved in the Basque Council of Culture, right? It's important. For this it is: to advise, to study, to analyze the situation of culture in the country. And that's withdrawn from the transaction. And that is particularly serious, because their contribution to the non-law proposition was essentially constructive. Well, we could assess whether it had to be three months for the drafting of that report or it had to be six months, but in any case, the participation of the Basque Council of Culture, which for that it is, which for that it has been created, which for that it meets. Or don't you meet for that? Or do you just gather to hear the words of the Culture Advisor and the reports read, and, well, then we go home? No, I had to work and I could work on this subject. Well, that too has disappeared from the transaction, and we regret it because it seemed to us to be a very, very interesting point. Well, your initiative, Mr Angulo, has been short-lived, but if it is a step and you consider it that way, we will vote for it, but I assure you it says nothing new. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u31	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u32	Madame Chair, President, good morning to all. Today we are bringing back to this House an initiative designed to boost support for the different sectors of culture, events and entertainment. And, frankly, I must admit that it is difficult for me to be able to say something new in relation to the great importance of the va culture in the construction of the whole society, of all societies. I have already expressed it on different occasions, every time I intervened here, and, well, one always runs the risk of repeating oneself. Because culture is a right, it is a right of all citizens; it is also an industry that creates employment and wealth and projects us in the world, but it is also a fundamental value for the intellectual and emotional development of our societies, favoring them to be free and open. It is hard to imagine a society without culture, because culture, in each and every one of its different facets, is the best and most effective social binder. Culture is the shared experience, the construction of a collective imagination that gives meaning to the feeling of community. Therefore, when culture is threatened, it begins to crack in the social consensus. A people that does not care for its culture, neglects it or relegates it to a secondary role is a people condemned to a slow amnesian lethargy. Little more can I add on the situation of the Basque cultural ecosystem as a result of the impact of the health and economic crisis resulting from COVID-19. This nightmare begins to get too long for everyone and everyone. At the plenary session on 19 November 2020, just half a year ago, we had a debate on a non-legislative proposal, brought on that occasion by Mr Estarrona, by Euskal Herria Bildu, on the need to agree on measures to deal with the consequences of the socio-health crisis on production and in the cultural industries. It has barely passed, as I say, half a year since that debate, and yet the scenario in which we are currently moving little or nothing has to do with that of those dates; in the global sphere I mean, as a society. The acceleration of vaccination plans is allowing us to see the light at the end of the tunnel. Hope begins to blossom again. Little by little it seems that we are awakening from a long lethargy, we are seeing how social, cultural, economic life shows the first signs of recovery. On that occasion, on November 19, we were able to reach a broad agreement. The photograph of that vote clearly defined the concerns of each and every group in this House. An overwhelming majority voted in favour of boosting and strengthening our cultural ecosystem in a context of serious crisis. An immense minority continued to be ensembled, entertained and gazing at the navel. In fact, it is not even in the House in this debate. What's happened since that date? All institutions have continued to work, at all levels, and let me make a quick review. Since the Government of Spain, for the first time, culture has not been the pagan of an economic crisis. The budget of the Ministry of Culture and Sport for 2021 has increased by 38%. Moreover, for the first time, culture also receives funding from Europe. The cultural and sports industries are lever policies of the Reconstruction, Transformation and Resilience Plan. For the first time, too, tax deductions for donations of natural persons as a boost to sponsorship have been increased to the greatest extent in history. All sectors of culture will receive special special grants worth €76.4 million, of which more than €38 million will go to music festivals, theatre, dance and circus companies, as well as live music halls. Also – and I think this is really important – the unemployment benefit is launched for artists of public and technical performances and auxiliary techniques of culture, taking into account what has been a historical claim of the sector. Following the list of institutions, the Basque Government has also not been stopped. The Councillor has been informing us through the questions for your written answer by the various groups in this House. Thus, this year, the Government will allocate more than EUR 1 million to the cultural sector. The conditions for access to aid have also been adapted, the tools adapted, creating new ones in those cases which have been deemed necessary to help minimise the damage caused by a situation of uncertainty and constant change. But the outlaws have also not been stopped. In Gipuzkoa, the Piztu Kultura 2021 programme has a budget of more than €5.5 million. It is a plan designed to alleviate the effects caused by the crisis of the covid and promote the reactivation of our cultural ecosystem. A plan that seeks to claim the value of culture as an essential asset for transformation, social improvement and coexistence, as well as a sector that brings wealth and employment to the territory, to protect the social fabric of culture, and to promote the creation of quality employment in this sector. In the Álava Diputación, calls for current spending, investments and the development of cultural events – logically adapted to the preventive needs of the covid – amount to almost half a million euros. Culture bonds are also maintained to stimulate cultural consumption and stimulate demand. And we should continue on that list of institutions, in that review, adding also to the important work that the municipalities have been doing, from the largest to the smallest, to keep cultural activity alive in their peoples. I'm done. No institution has been stopped. This Parliament will continue to promote those initiatives that it has deemed necessary for the strengthening of the cultural industry, the Government of Spain, the Basque Government, the outlaws, each and every one of the municipalities... The effort, therefore, has been, is and should continue to be shared. On this occasion, once again, we have again achieved a broad consensus. I would like to thank Mrs Zuluaga of the Basque Nationalist Party for her coordination work, together with Mr Angulo of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, to bring the original initiative closer to the amendment tabled by the Basque Socialist and Basque Nationalist groups. We need to send the sector a clear message: we are in what we need to be, a transaction in which we urge the Government to continue to strengthen the cultural sector through economic measures aimed at alleviating the losses caused by the context of the socio-health crisis in which we are immersed. We also urge you to continue to promote, in coordination with all institutions with competence in this field, the programming and holding of cultural events and shows. Finally, to maintain inter-agency coordination and collaboration with the sector, dialogue, information and participation as a basis and support for cultural policies. I hope we can definitely overcome the debates about the impact of the covid on our lives, on our society, on our economy and on our health. We will never forget these long months and all that has made us suffer. I hope this light at the end of the tunnel is the prelude to a new recovery stage. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u33	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians. Mrs. Hole, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u34	The chairman, the President, the congressman, all good days. For the last long year, there have been a great deal of intervention and controversy about the cultural profession, the culture activities, and the effects of the range. We have talked a great deal about the right to culture, culture as a very necessary property, creation, creation, production, and professionalization. In short, we are speaking of one of the activities which define us as individuals and human beings, which connects us socially, and defines our personality. Since the year of 2020 we must face one of the hardest and most serious moments of our society and the whole world, which we could conceive without exception, a terrible crisis of public health and a general collapse of unprecedented economics. The situation was very serious and very uncertain, and no one had either foresight or prescription. You had to react quickly in front of this situation and take the risks. This is the situation we all know, but how has this crisis been reacted to in the field of culture? What extraordinary measures have been taken and must continue to be adopted, which is the title of the initiative? The Department of Culture started this legislature with a rapid call for aid to the sector, being practically the first aid that was generally activated by the Basque Government. Since then, the department has continued to call for aid and, at the same time, to review its scope and effect, adapting it to the real needs of the sector in the light of the ongoing analysis of the situation. Yesterday, in the Committee on Culture, Councillor Zupiria gave a detailed account of all the funding available for the cultural sector, and I will not repeat figures. Only, without taking into account the specific items to deal with the pandemic, two million euros more than last year in funding for culture. For this rapid reaction, coordination with the sector has also been essential and necessary through the existing tables, to which other actors have been incorporated as a result of this situation. Prior to the statement of the state of alarm, this department had a Bureau of Performing Arts in order to be able to work different projects of a cross-cutting nature with this sector. Similarly, in the music sector there was a single platform that brought together all the associations, and at the start of the pandemic these tables incorporated more actors that were not integrated. All this, in addition to other open channels in other areas and sectors of culture. The pandemic has also served, yes, to see the seams to the sector, aspects and situations that, when the crisis came, have been a serious problem. Sectors, professionals, groups that have now seen the need to be associated or structured, and then the importance of coordination, first between them and then with the institutions. If something positive has brought the pandemic, maybe it was this. It is sad that it has now been, but, of course, it has been found that the cultural sector has seen the need for partnership and coordination. The precise concerns of the sector have been more defined by co-ordination and recognition. The result of this co-workeration, which has been independently and deliberately created by the extraordinary appeals of 2020, has been enabled to aid in minizing damages caused by a situation which was not known before, and now they have been founded on the examination of parties which might be improved in 2020's force and improvement. During this call revision, the sector is insisting on structure and professionalizing, digitalizing and cultural activity and helping to maintain the offer. Callings have been specified with detail, and very specific scopeal activities have been defined to reach the founders, producers, and professionals in the sector. The aim has been to maintain all possible creation and cultural activity that the health situation would allow. In this sense, the department has maintained and increased the subsidies that constitute one of the main tools to support the sector, the calls for annual grants for creation and cultural production. It has activated special funding lines to alleviate the drop in income that professionals have suffered, first, from cancellations and then from lack of activity. The Basque Government was the first to activate in an autonomous community a help line, from Lanbide, being a reference for other governments. Besides, among other lines of help, the department has also retained the direct subservations of the tractors of culture (the film, the Guggenheim Museum, Artium Museum, and many others), and in some cases it has been a very important part of the tractor institutions. But this sector, like any other sector, wants to work, not have to be left to public funding. The cultural sector is accustomed to work, effort and sacrifice, and in this pandemic all this has been much greater, if any, the work proper to the activity and also that which demanded to adapt to the different circumstances as the pandemic evolved. Today, if one enters the agenda of Kulturklik, for example, there are many activities that are being carried out: museums, cinemas and open theaters, concerts in Bilbao... In Bilbao, on Monday there were three concerts: two in the Euskalduna and one in the Philharmonic. There are film shoots on our streets; they have to organize streets and schedules so as not to interfere. There are cultural fairs, book presentations, conferences... A very extensive activity. As for the Euscadian Orkestra, it was one of the first orchestras of Europe who returned to public activity, and the only one who has succeeded in keeping all the engagements of Euscadin, by making a great effort to double the programming of the necessary protocols. Cultural tractors and EuskokM have made a lot of effort to define culture areas and activities and health security protocols, to fit them and set them right. Thanks to that, Euskade has been a reference for the vast cultural program that has been in the beginning of June 2000. The big concerts are still a problem, night entertainment too, but we have already held a first concert with 600 people. That is not all we would like, but we are not yet at pre-pandemic levels of activity, mainly because of the problem of buffers and the risk of concentrations, but we have achieved a safe, secure cultural activity thanks to the effort, of course, of the sector and of the institutions. Therefore, in June of last year, and the complete confinement ended, the cultural activity was resumed with the reopening of cinemas, theaters, museums, libraries, auditoriums and others. Euskadin, limited to socioscanitarian methods of activity, is, of course, still preserved until now, and has a stable sphere, both in respect to content and to timetables. The only country in Europe which has remained unstoppably in the course of culture has been shown. It may therefore be said, as we agreed in October, that Eukadic culture has had a substantial treatment. It was a vast arrangement of this chamber, but for the creators, professionals, producers, almost the entire sector, which had inevitable consequences and survival consequences. We know there are exceptions: His activity has not yet been carried on in great events, and in all his leisure for the night. The agreements we make here are very important, and they have been influenced, and now we can do it again. This agreement requires the government to continue to strengthen the sector with financial measures, to encourage programming and performances and performances, and to continue to maintain the fertile co-ordination required by the sector. Everything that has been done so far has been well, has given its fruit, and we must follow that line. I'd like to thank Mr. Angulo and Mr. Alonso for having had a quiet way of coming to this agreement. We'll keep this up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Zuluga. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Legs, and good morning to all of you. It was one of the first sectors to interrupt his activities, especially as has been mentioned here, the direct performances, the nature of which began again. And today is the day when many halls still have the blinds drawn down, and some of them don't know if they'll ever be able to open it. They were established in culture and kept in time, and some still restrictive measures did not coincide with the established activities of other nations, but it must be acknowledged that progress has been advanced. According to the study of the Euscals of Cultura, at the beginning of the pandemia, the culture activities were 8%,6% smaller, and lost 43 percent of their jobs. Compared to the time before COVID-19, the year's incomes have been reduced to 40%.8%. And even in the year 2021, the state of culture, as it were, has a certain limit, and will therefore lead to the loss of income, as has been mentioned here. And we've seen, for instance, that during the last call of culture autonoms, companies, and professional entities, which have gone down in 2020, from the value of COVID-19, all the investments that tend to worship and culture industry are necessary. There's nothing left. The original 1,1 million Euro-proportioned incomes had to be approved to increase 5,9 million euros in the United States of May 11, in order to respond to the 361 applicants who have been accepted from the applications which have been introduced. Of these the demand was received, and of these the terms were accepted, because they followed the terms, and the demand of 361 was accepted. According to the Sectors, the number of petitions is different, and especially music, as well as scenetic arts, and visual experts, somehow concentrate the greatest number of petitions, then culture and advice, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, art, literature, and poetry, until they are much less numerous. Some requests have remained outside, but even those who have not been able to present the request, and therefore I repeat, that all the agreements which have been made up of so much heterogeneous and in many respects directed to the atomic system, all the agreements that suppose progress, are welcome. But in the arrangement of today, now and again, I have not read any measure, I have no moderation at all, I can see no tangible progress, no tangible progress, no recorded one. And my question is, apart from what has hitherto been agreed on in this Chamber, what does this medium of acquisitions, or agreements, contribute to it? Because it's curious, but at least I've never seen such gifts in this country before. And why wish? Because it's the middle way to correct the parties that support the government, it's almost complete. It is true that he puts en vez de seguir reforzando, "seguir apoyandodo," al secor cullural a través de medicas economicas dirigidas a palian; seguir impulsdo y facilitando con resto des vacas... Hau da, bigarren puntu hau ére akordatuta zegoen, eta berdin-berdina da (aurrekoa, transkribatua), EAJren zuzenketan jasota. Eta hirugarrena era erabat transkripzioa da, EAJk éta Alderdi Sozialistak aurkeztutako erdibideko zuzenketarena. Eta, beraz, horregatik de tu diot akordio honi opa, opa egin diotela. Eta, aldiz, aldiz, hasierako ekimenetik –eta Barrio jaunak batzuk aipatu izan ditu –, hor bazeuden elementu inportante batzuk, akordioan inondik inora jasoak iz direnak: there was talk of the flexibility of access requirements, the conduct of dissemination campaigns, the implementation of criteria of good administrative practice, the incorporation of criteria of equality for the allocation of such aids, of guaranteeing the right to cultural creation (cultural creation as a right, also an interesting question), or even of validating as safe conduct the entrances to attend events and shows, at least within the same historical territory (it is true that we do not now have a perimeter confinement, but we do not know what is going to hold us for the future. But this is also a question that does not appear collected). You also spoke, Mr Angulo, of this non-legislative proposal, of the collaboration with Eudel, of the slogan "Safe Culture", which has been requested by the cultural sector as well, or even of the call – and here Mr Barrio has focused more on – of the Basque Council of Culture, so that, within three months, a report with proposals will be drawn up, and that is that there is no trace of it. That is why I say that, for us, all that implies measures of progress, assessed measures that improve the cultural sector, welcome be, because, as has been seen in the last aid I have mentioned, any progress is always insufficient when we talk about the cultural sector, because of its own characteristics. And, on the other hand, in this chamber, there has been mentioned a truce between the Alonso, and the latest discussion about the Zuluaga, which had been discussed about, in November last, about last year, as a property of culture, was established as a property of life-premeditation, and it has to be suggested by the public budgets which were directed to culture that the establishments were making plans for their budgets at that time, as well as by the process of using the teachings. Even the second point of today (which I have already mentioned) was taken up, so that there was no novelty in it. And as for the candidates, it was the plan of starting new measures to re-examine the conditions and duties of criteria, because he was obliged to do so, because he saw that the appeals of the revenue, which had begun, had failed and had many privations. And there was another point in looking at the European funds, and working with the sector, projects, projects, projects to design and present themselves in that project in Europe. And then, you know, I'm just saying, what kind of a funk this is, you know, that's another discussion, that's another discussion, that's another discussion. But at least, it was a settled arrangement that M. A.M., beyond what he was doing, his commitments, his precise commitments, and, in a way, to move the government from its confort space. But in the agreement today, as I said, we don't see it, we don't recognize it. And that's why we're gonna collect EH, we're gonna get paid for this deal today. However, I would still like to thank Mr. Angulo, for I believe that it is always useful to bring him to the first line of culture and culture in the political agenda, because he is not among the privilege of politics in political parties. And that's, I think, all of us, the author of this Chamber and the self-portrait that we have to make outside of here. And to conclude, even our abstinence, because there is no mention or trace of euscal culture, of euccan culture, of eucalyptic culture, of action, of compact, or even of discursive rank. And the absence of traces or allusions to the peculiarities of euscal culture and euscan culture leads us to despair, because culture and culture-preservatives help us to make a place in the world, nourish us the inner world, help us in construction of the sense, help us in building ourselves, and even in understanding the world. They encourage exchange, they create space for amusement, they invite us to explore, but they make us feel like a member of a community. Long live culture!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u37	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Passing the answers, Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am going to start by saying that I would like this initiative not to have had to be presented, that it would have been so outdated, so outdated that it would not be necessary for this support to culture, to the covid. Why? Because they weren't necessary, just like that. Many of the parts of our original initiative were out of date, as has been said, and, well, we have had to remove them. Just like that, there's no bigger mystery. I wish it hadn't been necessary! And in others, as in all negotiations, it is accepted and ceded. Well, well, we gave in, part of it. Well, like they've had the same replica... I do not think there is a small step forward in this initiative or in this transaction. In fact, I think this is quite a big step, as we move from a reduced cultural framework to a much broader cultural framework. Finally, finally – and I thank you – from the government it is seen that cultural agents are not only those who are the creators who are in the same or under the heading. With the transaction, what we have done is to extend the framework to a lot of other cultural workers who have so far stayed out and now have access to it. That's the difference. And we accepted it because that frame was a red line. And I think that at this point in time when food is an urgency, with regard to the other measures, the most structural measures, those which the Basque Government should give (whether the status of the artist, who have said that they are going to bring him, or the Basque Council of Culture, which should bring him together), because, well, I am critical, I am very critical of the government – I believe that yesterday I was, in my speeches, when I asked him, I was, too, but when a good thing is said, and this agreement is good. It's good because it includes everyone, it leaves no one. Not just two, it includes five. And, well, that's it. On the motto "Safe Culture" and on the impulse to events, I said it, I said it in my speech, at no time have I stopped saying it. "Safe culture" is also a motto that the sector itself sometimes rejects, because it gives the impression that its problem is already solved. No, the problem isn't solved, it's a long way to go. And there is, as I said, and as I said yesterday too, a lot of pushing back all the events, all the shows, all the parties, more concerts, more theater, a lot more. And responding more exactly to Mr. Estarrona, I never leave Basque culture. When I speak, I speak of Basque culture and of the creators, and Basque creators. And I mention it in the text. I'm talking about us, always. No more, mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u39	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Basque Popular Group, Ciudadnos... He mustn't speak. Basque Socialists. He mustn't speak. Eubertarians. Mrs. Zuluga. He mustn't speak. Collect EH. Mr. Estarrona, your word is, not even. When we're done arguing, we're going to vote first, and then we're gonna add the Euskal Popular Group-Ciudados. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 44; the votes given, 75; the supporters 7; the opponents, 68; abstentions, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u40	So it's not accepted. Then we'll vote together Podemos-Nozzerz, Eukal Sociists and Eubertarians. We'll vote for the intermediate corrections that have been signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 44; 75; the supporters are 54; the opponents are 0,0; Abstations, 21. white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u41	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Third point in theme list: "Momology, which has been introduced to the popular group of Carmelo Barrius Barroja, the member of the Ciudadans, on the part of the eucalyptic system of eupulous euphorum and of the new necessities of endurance. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Barrio, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u42	Good morning again. Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, ladies and gentlemen. Well, let's talk again in this Parliament about geriatrics, geriatrics (doctors) and geriatrics nursing staff. We have seen in this past year and a half who are the most vulnerable in terms of health. They have clearly been the elderly. And we have seen it, of course, in this last time with drama and pain. We have also seen, and we have all seen, that progress must be made in the care, in the health care of this group. We have seen it, we have seen it and, of course, it has convinced us that steps must be taken in relation to care and care for the elderly in the health field and, of course, in many others. The geriatric population is a growing sector from a demographic point of view, but due to over-ageing of the population, it is growing even more in its care needs. This undeniable reality, we must face it as a social achievement, seeking solutions consistent with the demand and standard of living of our society. Older people have health needs, and it should be understood that geriatrics is a medical and nursing specialty oriented to their care, no more or less. This was already said many years ago by the president of Zahartzaroa, the Basque Society of Geriatrics and Gerontology, at an important congress. The specialties of medicine and geriatric nursing are being imposed in today's society, in modern medicine, in the treatment of diseases in the different public systems. In modern medicine, this specialty is now becoming an essential one as well. And we believe that this implementation, of course, has to be done in Euskadi, and it is still an outstanding subject that my group believes should be resolved in this legislature, and, moreover, as soon as possible. It's clear... In the words of Dr. Fernández Letamendi, famous geriatrist, "The geriatrists use as the main working tool the comprehensive geriatric assessment, in which we take into account not only the medical aspects of the patient, but also his functional situation, the ability to carry out activities of daily life; cognitive, how his memory is, his brain capacities; his anmic and social situation, and the social, indeed: whether he lives alone or not, his family and social networks, the need for support". That's why Dr. Fernández Letamendi said "We therefore offer a holistic and patient-centred vision to achieve the greatest possible independence, autonomy and quality of life in him and her." This is the end, of course, of pursuing this issue. We must also say and note – and do so with satisfaction – that there are accredited teaching units already in most of the autonomous communities, that is, I mean accredited teaching units for training in geriatrics, in Castile-La Mancha, Castile and León, Catalonia, Madrid, Galicia, Extremadura, Canary Islands, Asturias, Aragon, Balearic Islands. That is precisely the effort that is being made little by little, and we trust and hope that it will be done immediately also in the Basque Country. Here are the normative elements that regulate it: the order of 2009 approving the training program of the specialty in geriatric nursing. Since 2001, there have been other commitments by the Basque Government – not by the Basque Government at the time – regarding the inclusion of geriatrics as a medical specialty. Of course, it has been recognized in Spain for 43 years as a MIR specialty since 1978. I mean, there still seems to be a mistrust in the specialty of Geriatrics in this country. And, of course, thanks to private health the geriatrics are a reality in the Basque Country, but also thanks to public health elsewhere where our geriatrics and geriatrics and our geriatric nurses have gone to work, in other parts of Spain. That is, that is the fundamental element. We have tabled a motion which is the result of the inquiry we had with the Counsellor on 11 December – that is, there has also been time to continue to analyse the situation and the circumstances – where we ask the Basque Parliament to urge the Basque Government's Department of Health to incorporate specialists from Geriatrics (doctors and nurses) into the care network of Osakidetza, specialists in Geriatrics, and, of course, necessary complement to this incorporation – to facilitate the conditions necessary to develop and organize the training of the Geriatrics specialty in the Basque Autonomous Community. I mean, there are no geriatrics in public health, and, of course, that was what we intended to incorporate. I want to say that this issue is already..., I will recall again the motion that was adopted in 2009 in this House. A motion such as this was adopted in 2009: "The Basque Parliament urges the Department of Health and Consumption of the Basque Government to incorporate specialists from Geriatrics into the Osakidetza network, where their role is considered more appropriate and timely, according to the study to be presented to the Basque Parliament within six months and according to the strategy of multidisciplinary care aimed at the care of chronic patients". There was also talk of urging the Department of Health and Consumer Affairs "to facilitate the necessary conditions to be able to develop and organize the formation of the specialty of Geriatrics in the Basque Autonomous Community". I mean, it was a very clear statement already, I say again, 12 years ago in this Parliament. And in addition, with the affirmative vote of almost all the groups in the House, including the vote of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Basque, who today make up the Government of the Basque Autonomous Community and who have responsibilities in the field of health. That is to say, that this important pronouncement by this House was already taking place at that time. I have to say that the pronouncements have continued to exist, the interventions of the advisers, the answers have continued to exist in relation to opening the door, with ease, but this has not occurred. Already in 2013, when it was analyzed that there were no geriatricians in the public network of Osakidetza, the Government certified us in writing that "no geriatrician has been incorporated into the network of Osakidetza", but it said that "the forecast of the revision of the Decree of Functional Posts in Osakidetza, for its adaptation to the new organizational needs, will allow to analyze the desirability of incorporating the functional post of geriatrician in order to optimize, even more...", that is, it will "integrate the functional post of geriatrician in order to further optimize the integral care of elderly and pluripathological patients". Analysis in 2013. That is, in 2013 the assessment and analysis, the reflection, was already done, and, then, what they had left was to reform that decree for that, wasn't it? And that was said, of course, by the Health Advisor. And also in 2015 the Health Advisor, in relation to this topic, said that "To address this review, there has been a reflection on aspects related to the needs and types of positions that Osakidetza may require" in the case this, on Geriatrics and Gerontology. In other words, that reflection was already in place in 2015; that is, six years ago also of this answer and of this question. That is, that in this sense we understand that it is time, it is time for the incorporation of specialists in Geriatrics, in their various specialties (medicine, nursing) to the public network of Osakidetza. It is also recalled that among the proposals for improvement is, with the incorporation of geriatricians and gerontologists, to promote, in addition to the training in Geriatrics of primary care physicians, internists, to obtain the MIR training in Geriatrics, Nursing, to ensure the training of geriatrics in the cultural and care environment in the Basque Country. There were other proposals for improvement aimed at the community. There were others aimed at the institutional environment, in many of the congresses, in many of the proposals that have been made by the organizations, by the societies that study geriatrics, right? And these proposals for improvement have been concrete in: developing comprehensive units of Geriatrics organized as support teams or as structural units, with their own beds as appropriate, in addition to outpatient care; developing a program to improve the care of the elderly in hospital emergency services; improving orthogeriatric care in all phases of care, with special care of the post-surgical and rehabilitative phase; clarifying the type of patients and the characteristics of mid-stay units, clearly distinguishing them from the socio-sanitary units; continuing with the development of mid-stay units with territorial planning criteria; creating a network of external multidisciplinary units in the diagnosis and management of people with dementia, ensuring the biopsychosocial approach; facilitating access to the prescriptions of specific drugs for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease according to the professional skills of experts in the management of dementias; completing the development of palliative care in all these topics. That is to say, a wide range of functions that would, of course, be developed by specialists in Geriatrics. It is clear that we have tried to reach agreement, to facilitate understanding; it has not been possible. Of course, we maintain this initiative, this motion, which I understand will have to be fulfilled, because it is necessary, because it is there, because it is a demand, and because this time as well and this year and peak of pandemic have shown that this special treatment of older people has to be taken through geriatrics and gerontology. I have seen the group's amendments. Elkarrekin Podemos, your amendment is interesting. It's interesting, and I appreciate it, but it raises more questions than the incorporation of geriatrics, in relation to ophthalmology, dentistry, physiotherapists... These are other debates, indeed. I think they are interesting, and of course I would suggest that Mrs González bring them to the House so that we can discuss them as well and delve into them. But I wanted to focus, we wanted to focus on geriatrics. I believe that it has its own specific capacity to make that appeal to the Government at this time, in connection with its incorporation. Bildu. Well, the initiative is also interesting. What's going on is that we're not for pilot programs anymore. You're proposing a pilot program at Eibar Hospital. I think we need to be ambitious. I believe that already the incorporation has to be to the whole network: it has to be to Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, to their entire care network. And in that sense, I thank you for the initiative, but I believe that the framework has to be greater. And, of course, the groups supporting the Government have had the typical amendment, in line with it. Well, I would have agreed. The organisation has also been forgotten, in this area of reflection and evaluation of training, in its compromise amendment. It would have been good, but, in any case, I believe that a greater decision on the wording of this amendment would have been good, because it is not said that the geriatrics will be incorporated, nor are the conclusions of the assessment or evaluation being made said. That is why I believe that it is insufficient at this time; something can also be said to us by the representatives of the Government. We therefore, and I conclude, ask the Government to take a decision that has been pending for a long time, which is to integrate geriatrics into their medical and nursing dimensions into the public health network of the territories of Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u43	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together Podemos-Nozzerza. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u44	Good noon, everyone. Thank you, ma'am. Simone de Beauvoir said that the wrinkles on the skin are proof of the beauty of the soul, and together with Podemos-No doubt in the parliamentary group of the Animals: If the germ specialists are in the Osalan Network, our old men will live longer. And as they'll have more wrinkles, they'll be even more beautiful. At present, almost 20 % of people living in Euskadi are over 65 years of age, and it is also expected that by 2040 the population over 65 years of age may be one third of the total census. The hope of life in the Euscal Autonomy Eremia has been raised in the year of the year, and in the case of men we will continue to rise until the year of 77, and, according to what we see, we are in front of an old population which needs a proper health attack. This increase in life expectancy is accompanied by a high prevalence of people, some of them fragile, with two or more chronic diseases, as the People's Party put it well in the justification of its proposal. They are people who demand a high use of health resources. The ageing of the population and the increase in life expectancy force us to reflect and modify public health policies, because life expectancy must serve not only to live more, but to live more and better. We citizens have a right to grow old by making their lives independent, dignified, healthy. Envejecer de shape autónoma, digna y saludablemente. And we all know, moreover, that the social protection system is partly based on family and community solidarity, and that it rests mostly on the women we have assumed as our own and unpaid care work. Heinera, azken urteotan pentsiodunak astelehenero kalera ateratzen ikusi ditugu zerbitzu publikoen murrizketak salatzeko eta pentsioi buruzko eztabaida gizzarteratzeko. And in the latter period, the debate on how their rights with regard to care and public health, such as non-face-to-face appointments, the reservation of online appointments or what has happened in residences, are some of these examples. On 5 November, the Ararteko gave them reason by issuing a report, as a general recommendation, to the Basque Government on the need to strengthen citizen care in this age group, in order to avoid, in fact, all these difficulties facing the elderly, especially in relation to public administrations. The Basque Government is ignoring what it recommends, and then we understand that its rights are being violated. But returning to the subject before us, by the way, reviewing the hemerotec, I have found that 12 years ago the People's Party registered this same initiative and was approved by a majority, and it turns out that four years ago, eight years later, Osakidetza deploys in its primary care organizations the Plan of Care for Older Persons, where comprehensive care is addressed to the population over 70 years of our Community. Now, last April, the Osakidetza sectoral table presented the project of integration of specialists in geriatrics in public health centers. Perhaps, what they demanded then, and also now, is what this project responds to 12 years later, in which they say, for example: "The care at the hospital level of the elderly is carried out in Osakidetza by professional teams of medicine, nursing, physiotherapy and social work with a high degree of excellence in care". It seems perfect to us; if it is fulfilled, it seems perfect to us, but it is that in view of the greater needs of the larger and fragile population we find ourselves with a health system oriented primarily to the attention of acute pathology and not to prevention. And if the goal of geriatrics is to try to restore health, maintain physical and mental independence and a good quality of life in the face of mortality, dependence, institutionalization and the consumption of health and social resources, of course, the first thing to evaluate is whether the available resources have been adequate, to analyze what factors have contributed to the health response in this crisis that we are experiencing, moreover, has not been satisfactory, despite the tremendous effort being made by the staff and health professionals. And, on the other hand, we have to analyze the policies of cuts, because in recent years there have been policies of cuts in health – the health system has weakened also on a daily basis – and that the personnel who have to do their work are doing it under extreme conditions, and also this lack of specialists that brings us this initiative. Hence it becomes clear, that although germatary well-conditioned, the policy of reductions which prevailed in the course of recent years has weakened the health system and the public responsibility for health must have been taken upon by the workers. In short, of those muds these muds, and with the aging of the population, the increase of dependence and chronic diseases in a context such as the current one, where the economic crisis has very dangerously undermined our social welfare system, where public and universal health are fundamental rights, several challenges arise in the attention to our elderly: we have to change the traditional health model – that is very clear – which is focused on curing and compartmentalized specialties. We need to move on to another model that is more geared to prevention, to care, rather than to cure. That is why from Elkarrekin Podemos and Izquierda Unita, in order to deal with this situation that our elderly people are suffering, we wanted to invite you with our amendment to reflect on how it has been cut during these years in public health and how the health sector has been precarious during these years, and the influence that this has had on our elderly people, being Euskadi, as an example of the issue we are addressing, the only community in the State that has not recognized geriatrics as a specialty in the entire Osakidetza portfolio. Izan ere, Elkarrekin Podemos-Ezker Anitza, nire such as parliamentarians in proposeamenak osasun publikoa indartzearen aldekoak izan dira beti, éta, haren barruan, lehen arrested bereziki babestearen aldekoak. And not only is geriatric care necessary to care for our elders, but also those other figures that we said in our amendment are needed, and that is not that we say it, it is that the associations of older people say it, the health associations say it: we need physical therapists, we need dental hygienists, we need pedologists, psychologists, rehabilitation units, among others. Zaharren dares from throwing you beat osasunaren neurgailu onena. Adding, integrating and complementing specialties, betting on public health, investing in public health, because, if not, how or who will take care of us when we get older? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs Garde, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Our proposal on the table, which has been brought by the Popular Party today, was to integrate Griatry and posterity's specialities into the Osata, and apply them to new wants of existence, is not of any importance, nor of any kind, unfortunately, new. It has often been discussed in this chamber, and the agreements have been concluded. But reality is that we haven't got any contact service today, no units, no specialists. It doesn't exist, it doesn't exist in our health system, and that's reality, so we're facing a void and a defect. Thus, having learned the opinion of Madame Oddui, the chief physician of health by interpetions, which are here agreed, and seeing the motion presented by PP, we thought we ought to go beyond here, because the situation required reality. That's why we introduced an integer correction, with a significant proposal, and not just to ask for the specialtys of Griatry and Bintology to be a part of the health system, but to get through this scheme of demands and start the service directly, in order to open a germany unit in the hospital, with a social character and perspective, and use the sub-structions of this new hospital to start with service. And even in that way, we put BAME and IRA in it. A project pilot, yes, but then a model to expand on the entire network. Beyond the words, the proposal to proceed to action. We're late, we're late, and we've got to make a terrible change in the persistence, care, care, and care of the old people. It's no good to keep doing what's done so far. It doesn't work, and we need a change of direction and perspective, which is exposed to the range. We can't only understand people who go forward at an advanced age in the uniform of the hospital, and I'll give you a very simple instance, but which often happens: Suppose an 85-year-old person breaks his hip. This happens very often, just this week, the father of one of our teammates has happened to my grandma a few years ago, and I'm sure this has happened around you a lot. We cannot think that the sole function of the health system is to operate before this person, to operate on a procession, to keep him ingregated for a few days, and to send him home, and then go on to the family doctor. That doesn't count. It's useless, and we can't go on understanding with those terms. What we need to think, on the one hand, that we have to work on prevention, prevention, prevention, prevention, and prevention, in order to avoid such breaches as may be possible. And, on the other hand, we must understand that when that person who broke his hip gets out of the hospital, he'll have new or special needs. The official has lost and his dependence has increased, so he will have special needs for a while or for a long time. And all this must be answered from the sociosanitarian field, and in this case the specialities and services of the Geriatry are indispensable. Not only in hospitals, no, not in health centres, domestic service, and wherever necessary. But above all, from a social gaze, which will understand them in an integral manner. Not just as a temporary patient or a sick person, but as a citizen, he must be as healthy as he can be throughout his life. That's the problem, there's the harpsichord. We don't just have to cure the villagers, we need to help them stay healthy. And for elderly people, that's worthy and high-quality lives, autonomouss, independents, encouraging assets. That is to guarantee the health of these people, and that must be our horizon. And for that, germanity is indispensable. In so far as poverty is a medical speciality, it aims to improve the health, independence, and the quality of life. Gender understands how to deal with it in a wide and integrated way. It does not only measure the health of men according to disease or disease, but rather their hope of life, and their quality. It is with this premium that the attention of elderly people, autonomy and independence, must be adopted by special attention in emotional and mental health. That's the purpose of the germ. And the germatists will not represent the professionals we already have in the health system, traumatologists, family doctors, better psychologists, psychists will remain there, but the germists will complete their work, they will be a coordinater, an integrated element, and they will add a social gaze. And we are speaking of very vulnerable citizens: old men, with pluripatologies, with great medications, usually have emotional and cogniative nativity, which are in a very complex state. They need multi-discipline integrations, and the figure to see and coordinate them, the german treatments, and lateroological specialists. And so we have pediatrics in the case of children, and in the case of minors, germs. I mean, maybe someone's crazy about getting rid of pediatricians or not being in our health system? No, right? Because a certain collective understanding, with special wants of attention, requires professional specialists to take care of them. It's not that hard, is it? And to be specialists, of course, it is necessary that BAME or MIR should be started here. It is a pity, indeed, that many of the educated doctors, who are to-day, are obliged to work abroad from our country, because they have no place in public health systems. It's a shame, but it's a perfect truth. And think of us as more and more older people. Today 22% of the population is over 65 years old, nearly 500,000 people, citizen. Many need not special attention, but many others do, and this number is constantly rising. Eta panorama horren aurrean, Gobernuak, Sailburuaren ahotik, honakoak esan zizkigun abenduan, hitzez-hitz: "Over the years, even steps have been taken to be able to incorporate the figure of the geriatric patient into our care, as is the case with the Arab OSI, which for four years and with the aim of incorporating a broader vision towards the geriatric patient created a specific section with the idea of incorporating an integral and individualized assistance to the elderly person, incorporating for this purpose in its service a geriatric patient". A geriatrician all over Osakidetza? Really? Are these the steps we've been taking for the past four years? But he continues: "At this point, from the Department of Health and from Osakidetza we consider it opportune to evaluate the possibility of incorporating specialists from Geriatrics into our teams." "Considerasamos vacationno valora la posided... "I don't know. "Menuo subterfugio, señora Appledui, what an escape!" Do you think it's right for you to put up a chance when he sees what the pandemies are showing? Obviously, it's not enough to get involved in ratings. and sin más, which has often been spoken of in the pandemae is manifest: We need more and more special services to treat elderly people. In fact, until today, the attention they give you is not enough. We've got a lot to do to make it better. Before this, our political object is to protect and secure the rights of all persons from the possibility and autonomy. Men of age have a complete right to their own projects of life, and we have to put on the means and services. These are the active, active, active, active part of the population, and are worthy of service. Today, without a deal, I'm afraid it's another loss. Follow me, go on, drooling, it's up to you to get out of there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u47	Thank you, Mrs Garde. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Beyond the specific request made by Mr Barrio today, the fact is that he is putting forward a general debate which I believe is very well-bred and which, as he himself has pointed out, needs to be put forward. For many years we have been debating in this Parliament about adapting to new care needs for the elderly. As has been pointed out, and as has often been recalled in this very rostrum, as age progresses we find ourselves with a greater number of situations of chronicity and also of dependence, which, due to logical issues, are becoming more intense in the older population. And, as we all know, in Europe, Spain and also here, in the Basque Country, life expectancy, fortunately, is higher and we find an important part of our population within those age ranges. This situation has not gone unnoticed to anyone at all. Within Osakidetza and the various health departments that have happened over time this reality has been a constant in adapting the provision of services to ensure quality assistance to this important segment of our population. Mr Barrio will first remember the important step taken through the strategy of chronics implemented by the councillor Rafael Bengoa in the government of the lehendakari Patxi López, which, with his support, was set as objective a more personalized, more dynamic and more permanent attention in this population. The various plans put in place since then have also been facing this challenge. As Ms. Sagardui explained in response to her inquiry, the 2013-2020 Health Plan also included a strategic line on aging, chronicity and dependence, which had an impact on the need for a model of care based on the patient and his disease, and not so much focused exclusively on solving acute problems. And the fact is that the pandemic has also highlighted the need to have to address in a more specific way the care of the elderly, something that is, by the way, reflected in the Government Agreement signed between the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party for the current legislature, and that, as it could not otherwise be, has been incorporated into the strategic lines of the action of the Department of Health itself. As you know, as the adviser commented in the response to the inquiry raised by Mr Barrio, the 2013-2020 Health Plan must be evaluated in order to develop a new plan that will incorporate all these reflections in order to promote an integral model of care. And in this evaluation we are in favour, as reflected in our amendment, of considering the possibility of incorporating specialists in Geriatrics or Gerontology into the professional teams of Osakidetza, as well as of placing the emphasis on guaranteeing the autonomy of these people. But with all this I believe that we should not lose sight of something that goes far beyond the debate whether or not geriatrics should be incorporated. I recall in this regard something that already in 2009, in an inquiry also made by Mr Barrio to then advisor Rafael Bengoa on this same question, the latter answered him: "You cannot think that the attention to our elders will be arranged simply by adding one specialty or another in the system, since a multidisciplinary solution is necessary". And I believe that that reflection made in 2009, 12 years ago, today has even more strength than at that time. That is why I say that this goes beyond the mere incorporation or non-incorporation of persons specialized in Geriatrics or Gerontology into our care services; this will also promote a new comprehensive model of social and health care coordinated with the primary health care network for the elderly, live in their homes or live in residences; give a strategic boost to active ageing and promote the personal autonomy and full and healthy life of the elderly; continue to guarantee and extend non-face-to-face care measures such as teleassistance, and many other issues that we must address from Osakidetza's own capacity for adaptation and innovation to the challenges facing us. Many of these issues, as you know, have been incorporated into the objectives set by the Department of Health for this legislature, and we believe that they will have to be addressed from that integral perspective, relying on the assessment of the tools put in place so far to continue to guarantee quality assistance to our population. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u49	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u50	Thank you, ma'am. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all. Mr Barrio asked us a question, today in the form of a motion, initially in the form of an inquiry, and to me when I saw it live and then consulted the transcripts, it seemed to me a classical inquiry, with which I will follow in a certain way the line of ideas that were evidenced there. At the outset, I must say that I have a very positive assessment of your initiative, Mr Barrio, and of the impetus you give on this issue, as Mr Rico has already acknowledged. He was asking us for a moment of reflection. You, on your initiative, were asking us all; I understand that you were going to the Sailburu, but you were asking us for a moment of reflection on specialized medical care, and you were already going down into practice and talking about those very specific professionals, geriatrics, gerontologists and gerontologists. It also addresses in its approaches the contribution to the health system, and also attends to the contribution in a scenario such as the current one. And it does not initially refer both to the pandemic scenario, which also, but to the ageing scenario, which is one of the great challenges of the country. You also tell us today about the way forward in the Basque Parliament, and indeed you have had a way forward in the Basque Parliament, but I sincerely believe that you have also had a way forward in the government, with the involvement of the government. And I'd like to quote him: "We want to keep understanding that there's that reflection in the department," he said to the Sailburu. You see the need to link these specialists, and you also tell us about a progressive incorporation into the public health care system and you are very interested in knowing the government's purposes. In this regard, the Government has a voice through the Sailburu, and the Sailburu, I think that with a great deal of clarity, after we all know the issue of Osakidetza and the Department of Health's high capacity for adaptation and innovation, it speaks to it about a key element, which in my opinion is the key to this debate, which is the 2013-2020 Health Plan. In particular, a strategic line, which is the strategic line on ageing, chronicity and dependence, and in particular a very concrete, much more concrete question, which is evaluation. As you have also gathered here today, both for yourself and for Mrs González or for Mrs Garde, we all understand that there is a close relationship between chronicity and ageing, and while it is true that we are sometimes not talking about an immediate risk to life, we do understand that it has an impact on it, shortens life expectancy and conditions its quality, as Mrs González told us. The Sailburu, in that inquiry, confirms that they are working on this important issue. Not only, so to speak, studying, but working in practice. And he gives us some examples focused on evolving internal medicine services or, as has already been mentioned, those concrete steps in the Arab OSI. Mrs Garde, when you used this question – and I say you used it – you asked a question: a geriatrician throughout Osakidetza? I understand that you ask that question to get an effective character, don't you? to say, "Let's see, just a pediatrician in all Osakidetza." By asking that question in that way you may get some effect, but you pull something tremendously important out of the equation, which is our entire social and health model. Our Community responds, responds from the socio-health model. Returning to the technical theme that pointed to the beginning: Health Plan 2013-2020, concrete strategic line on aging, chronicity and dependence, and evaluation. Valuation phase. He's in a valuation phase. After this first – let's say so – change of ideas, I quote, Mr.Barrio, in his question: "Good answer and good news...", he says to the Sailburu, "But we have to know, we have to know for when." The question is when, therefore, with what forecasts of the moment of that definitive reflection do you count, when will the conclusions of the analysis be and so on. I, at that time, would say "Well, then, it's time for the Sailburu to focus on when"; and the Sailburu focuses on when and says, "Look, in the Health Plan 2013-2020, in that Health Plan we must evaluate, we must carry out the evaluation at its end, this same year. This same year." As a matter of fact, his question is answered. But what does the Sailburu do? Sailburu goes much further, announces the impulse of a new comprehensive model of social and health care, because it is not just about incorporating new figures, but about a profound update of our system of care for the elderly. I'm going back to the beginning. And to do it right – and there's the qualitative leap – the department needs to evaluate it well. Let's let them do it. Even so, and respecting that let it do, let it do with the time that has put us the Sailburu, yet we have amended, from the respect by letting it do. And, in this sense, we, as parliamentary groups, bet that the department consider the possibility of incorporating specialists from Geriatrics, Gerontology in their professional teams, with the aim of providing better assistance to older people. And we bet that in caring for older people the emphasis is placed on ensuring their autonomy, so that the focus of patient care is more focused on their abilities and less on the disease. I think it's not that we're not clear. You accuse us of not being clear in the amendment. I think we're respectful of the evaluation work the department's doing. He said at the end of his speech today, "It will have to be fulfilled." We all know that Osakidetza, that the Department of Health, fulfills; in this and in other things. The issue is not only about when, but also how, and how such an assessment is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u51	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Myst. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours. Mrs Martínnez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u52	[[Microphone Off spoke]] ...to all of you. It draws attention to the debate at this time on the incorporation of geriatric specialists into the Osakidetza portfolio of services, when a year ago Parliament approved to urge the Basque Government to work in this direction. That is why the debate, Mr Barrio, should focus on what can be done with an executive who does not comply with the provisions of this House and who uses it little less than as a propaganda channel. In a highly aged society like Basque, it seems reasonable to strengthen the attention paid to our elders. The debate on the incorporation of Geriatrics and Gerontology as health specialties in Osakidetza's portfolio of services comes from afar. There is debate among the professionals themselves and there are also alternatives to provide such care through other professionals, usually primary care, family doctors and nurses. But there is a significant fact, and it is that the Basque Autonomous Community is one of the few in Spain that still does not incorporate this specialty into Osakidetza. I don't know if it's a new sample of Basque specificity. In the interest of better attention to the elderly, we will vote in favour of the motion of the People's Party, aware, moreover, that the PNV-PSOE roller is going to be imposed, will impose its criterion and will condemn to nothing all that is approved here. On the other hand, I do not think there is any need at this stage for a pilot experience in a Basque hospital, because it is a question of getting to work, of following the path by which the rest of the autonomous communities have chosen. And I have not fully understood the turn of Podemos, which, taking advantage of a motion on gerontology, passes through the Basque Parliament and tries to end the debate on the incorporation of other specialties. Undoubtedly interesting debate, but it is not the same for physiotherapy, dentistry and ophthalmology, which should come to this House as monographic debates. We agree with you, Mrs González, and we hope that you will bring these specialties to the future full, because we agree that the more specialties we have in Osakidetza the better we will all be and, above all, the better our elders will be, so we applaud you in that too. In short, would you be a manager in Osakidetza's portfolio of services? Of course I do! Yes to discuss the incorporation of other specialties, too. Not to pilot tests, we consider that they are not necessary, and not to the smokescreens of this government embedded in itself and inoperative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u53	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Now to answer, yes, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u54	Thank you, President. Well, I have taken something quite positive from the debate on this initiative, and it is that the need for specialists in the care of the elderly is noted. And that happens, essentially, through geriatrics, gerontologists and geriatric nursing. That's basic. In other words, we can see that the framework within which they integrate, with other modalities, with other organizational formulas needs to be studied, but the question goes through the essential, which is the specialist, who is going to deal with the elderly with their problems. And I think that's good. I mean, I think that comes out of today's debate as an important element, right?, that I think it unlocks some issues. I mean, what I'm asking is that this be imminent, that it be as soon as possible. Mr. Rico reminded me of the chronicle strategy. I was a witness, I supported her. I was chairman of the Committee on Health at the time in the Basque Parliament, and with Mr Bengoa we are working intensively on supporting this strategy. And I saw precisely that strategy as a step too or an open door, a very important step to that gerontological integration into the health system. Similarly, if Mr Bengoa had lasted a little longer or that legislature a little longer, that would have been achieved, but, well, it was not possible, and, of course, there it is. And that was a long time ago, a long time ago, but, well, let's take steps in that direction. Mr. Aiartza, you're telling me it's a classic initiative. Yes, and the pandemic has added arguments to the scenario of aging and care needs. So in that sense it is classic, but it is very modern or very recent with regard to how we have increased the arguments in relation to this topic in this year and peak pandemic. And he urges me to let him do it, let him evaluate. Mr. Aiartza, I've been doing it for 12 years, that is, since the initiative was approved in 2009, I've been doing it ever since. Because then, in addition, the advisors have talked about reflection, they have talked about regulatory reforms to integrate the new specialties. I mean, that I... Of course I let him do it! And I'm going to keep letting you do it, because, of course, you're not going to approve of my initiative. But if that thought has already been done, it is done! And you know that it's done, precisely by the arguments that they bargain and that the other day also bargained with the counselor in relation to need. I mean, I think that reflection has already been done. There should be conclusions; there are no conclusions at the moment. But the conclusions are called incorporating these figures, which is the key element in caring for the elderly. That's the fundamental thing. The evaluation in relation to these issues, the evaluation on geriatrics is already done: geriatrics and geriatric nursing are necessary in our public health. They have very important functions to perform, which have been shown in addition to primary care, in the medium and long hospital stay, in other areas... In the Basque Country, in addition, there are very good geriatric professionals, and very well organized, in addition, who work in private health care or in social services or in other health care in Spain and the world. And, of course, in that sense it is necessary. It is also very likely, logically, that if there had been geriatric specialists and gerontologists in the public health network, anywhere, the incidence of COVID-19 in the larger population would have been smaller and better managed. That is an element of reflection, too. That is why I believe that they should approve my amendment. It is a clear amendment, which will contribute to the element of reflection and to the assessment which, of course, will have the aim of incorporating geriatricians into the health system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u55	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together Podemus Ankerz, from there, Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u56	Well, eskerrik asko for the references and, above all, also for the support for the incorporation of other specialties you have also shown. I would like to say to Mr Carmelo Barrio that it seems to me to be very relevant for the people we have come here to see that there are people who have been fighting for 12 years on such specific issues, who have brought them back to Parliament over and over again; they deserve our support. It is almost a matter of degree, but it deserves our support. It is a very concrete, very clear initiative. The evaluation thing. It's just that over and over again, over and over again, we find this government response: "We're evaluating." For 12 years now, which was approved by a majority in this House? Jo! And we need to be letting go of time and time, and get a pandemic, and see how we have older people, and see what's happened in the residences, and see what's going on with face-to-face appointments, and see a movement of pensioners coming out every Monday on the street telling us the problems they're in, the problems they're in health... We can't let one more minute pass by evaluating. They have to get to work, they have to get to work. And from my parliamentary group we say to them: geriatrics yes, but also many other figures who are being demanded in public health and who are not being strengthened and who are not arriving. Mrs Garde commented on the hip break, but it is that any of our elders we have nearby know that, if they have to go to the podiatrist, they pay for it; that if they have problems with their mouths, they pay for it; that in Osakidetza there is a residual assistance in this matter. We shall vote in favour of the initiative put forward by the People's Party. We are also in favour of including... Anyone who does a quick search on Google and puts "geriatria" and "Osakidetza" will get an interview from the only geriatrician on the public network who says that the lack of geriatricians in Osakidetza is an inertia, it is a government inertia; that is, it is a political bet, it is a political bet because they are not. So clear. We're in favour, too, and we're going to abstain. I want to trust that this evaluation is quick, that it materializes quickly in the incorporation no longer only of a geriatrician in the OSI of Araba, but that soon there are many more geriatricians throughout Osakidetza. And we are going to be on the lookout, because Mr Carmelo Barrio does not deserve another 12 years of waiting for an evaluation to include pediatricians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. EHGG rep. Mrs Garde, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u58	Thank you. Gauza asko esan will say, and does not deserve Carmelo Barrio 12 years of waiting, but, above all, they do not deserve citizenship. No, no, First of all, tell me that we place the germian affair in the sociostian frame, because we think the collective of grown-up characters is very wide, yes? But within the collective, there are many conditions of impalpability and necessity, and therefore we need a look of many disciplines, and that is why it is necessary to define the social concept. And the Azians, and Mr. Rico, have also spoken about the socioscanitarian area. And we are not required to define, to regulate, to regulate, and above all to expand. This, you know, yet you want to make a decree for the management of the field, and so you called it: "El decreto de masteria sociosnanitari, well, que no va a falla servicios, no; lo que va acer, lo vun lo que me hacias explicado ocarias, va a ser coordinars servicios y existentes, well, simply. This discussion is not new. We've talked about this many times this year, whether here on the committee or here, and it's clear that we have very different views, isn't it? On the other hand, he has received criticisms on the subject of our proposition, which is also good. We made the opportunity of doing Eibares because we've cultivated it; look what's happened at the Eibar Hospital: the third floor was empty; it was supposed that the sociomatic squares were to be opened, as we speak of this sociosphere. And what's finally done? Now, through the aldundia, the squares have been arranged with Father Menni. Wow. Instead of opening it in the public, we go once more into the private area. Eta geriatriari dagokionez, zuek hori, esandakoa, oraindik subterfugioetan eta ihesean, in considering it appropriate to evaluate the possibility in the evaluation of the plan from 2013 to 2020, which we are already in 2021. May he come soon and let us see what has been accomplished, what not, do not dagoen betetze-maila, éta ikusiko dugu! And you, in your amendment, also: "Parliament urges the Department of Health to consider the possibility of incorporating specialists". Consider the possibility; likewise, it may, perhaps, baliteke... Well, nothing, horrella jarraituko dugu, ez? That's the day it's the day it's the day it's the day it's the day it's the day it's the day it's the day it's the day it's the day it's the day it's the day it's the day it's the day it's the day it's the day it's the day it's the day it's the day it's the day it's the day it's the day it's the day it's the day it's the day it's the day it's the day it's the day it's Well, hamarkada bear bat jahiago bath, 12 bumps, hemen where esan den bezala. 2019an Ganbera honetan bertan erdibideko hau onartu zen: "Incorporate Geriatrics specialists into the Osakidetza network. Facilitate the necessary conditions to be able to develop, organize the specialized training of Geriatrics in the Basque Autonomous Community and develop fully the socio-health space", signed by you and by you. Joe! Well, nothing, three points, three commitments and hiru iruzur. Come on, come on, come on, come on, It seems that more than a decade ago you were clear that we had to incorporate specialists in Geriatrics and Gerontology into the Osakidetza network, but, well, today your proposal is to continue considering the possibility of maybe being able to incorporate... Well, well, azaldu, mesez, nolatan duel 12 urte zeneukaten argi, eta gaur egun ez. Eta argiak eta zintzoak izan. You can be transparent and tell the citizen if tomorrow will have access to a public service of Gerontology and Geriatrics in Osakidetza. Yes or no. Bai edo ez. You can be clear and clear and explain to specialists whether they will be able to work in Osakidetza as geriatrics and gerontologists and as specialized nurses. Yes or no. Bai edo ez. Answer the questions, and don't go out again with plans and plan evaluations and... Yeah? Don't get mixed up in it, even if you can answer clearly. Well, that's it. This will make it possible for citizens to have specific units with specialists in Geriatrics, Gerontology, to deal comprehensively with older persons. We said son un cocctivo muy vulnerable por muchas croas (indin, pluripatology, addict). It's obvious that they're in the pandemies where they've lived, and they need special needs, they need a multi-disciplined treatment, and we need specialists to do that. That's it! It's your responsibility, and it's in your hands, I'm afraid, maybe, but it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u59	Thank you, Mrs Garde. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u60	Thank you, Madam President. We're going in parts, like Jack the Ripper said. Because, of course, here we have come up, all of a sudden, in these second speeches in an amazing way. I mean, it's looking amazing to me. They've got it out here... They have failed to draw, I don't know, the guilt of this government in the Second World War or in the murder of John Fitzgerald Kennedy, because I am truly hallucinating with these second interventions. In addition, the day we know that the DEC Report on Social Services puts on Euskadi the note of excellent, excellent; that we go up position, to excellent. Sure, something's not right. And look, I, honestly, weak favor would do the citizenry that has put us here each and every one of us if I said that we are excellent and we have nothing to do. And I'm never going to do that, but, man, coming here to say that everything is fatal, that nothing is done, when all the indicators prove absolutely the opposite, it's just as reprehensible as if I did the opposite. And I have to tell you that. I have to tell you. If I were to come out here and say, "It's all about not touching, not touching. And with the pandemic, well, the pandemic has shown that nothing has to be touched," it would be ridiculous, wouldn't it? Well, just like someone has to think that coming up here to say that it's absolutely wrong, that you're not doing anything right, it's just as ridiculous. Just as ridiculous. They have also taken the opportunity to raise questions which, frankly, seem to me to be a little bit perverse, don't they? Say, "If there had been gerontologists, there would have been fewer victims with the covid." Man, there are autonomous communities where there are gerontologists and the victims have been above, above, the mortal victims. We have to remember a little bit: unfortunately, there have been many deaths. I believe that the great failure, which has occurred throughout Europe, and that is so, has been with the elderly in the pandemic. But, man, let's talk with a little bit of rigor. Let's put the data on top of the table, not the first thing we think about, not the first thing that works for us when we go out to a rostrum. No! No! Mrs. Garde, I'm going to make it absolutely clear to you. Look, I want this legislature to be the one where we move forward with comprehensive, comprehensive care for the elderly in the health field. And that's the bet. That is what is contained in the government agreement signed between the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, that is what is contained in the department's guidelines, in the lines of action, and that is what we try to do every day. And that's the way it is. And Mr. Bengoa in 2009... , because it is true, Mr Barrio, that you have been raising this question for 12 years, but it is true that even when you raised it, even when you left for the first time, Mr Bengoa himself said that phrase that I have read to you today, and that is that the problems of elderly people in health are not going to be solved by putting one or another specialist, this requires integral actions. And that's the goal. And that's what we're in. And, of course, it is very good to come out here to criticize, but, man, I would like the criticism – which is absolutely necessary, that we have exercised it many years since the opposition – to be at least a fact-based criticism. That's all I'm asking. I don't ask you to agree, but I do ask you not to let go of the biggest thing you can think of every moment to try to tie the sardine to the sardine, which at least is based on data. Nothing more. And thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u61	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u62	Thanks again. I think Mr. Barrio does deserve it. He deserves it – as a joke, Mr. Barrio. Yes, it does, because it is a recognition..., not on this issue, not on other issues, certainly not on all issues, but that reminds us many times that there are issues that you bring us and that also make us, in that sense, remember, but update. Well, today, and I am going to add to Mr. Rico's words, we have been able to contemplate again a somewhat more sectoralized version of the theory of chaos ("This is chaos, this is chaos"). And Mr. Rico was referring to data. And I often remember a moment, in this of the theories of chaos, and linked to the field of health, an appearance not long ago – I have recently seen that he has made statements in the same line – of the president of the Spanish Federation for the Defense of Public Health, Marciano... And you have to excuse me, Marciano, because now I've forgotten your last name. And we were on that commission in his day and before Marciano put the first transparency we were in the theory of chaos, some were in the theory of chaos. And when Marciano put the first transparency, the theory of chaos ended, when it came at the request of the spokesman who was the spokesman for the theory of chaos as well. With this I really believe that, in my opinion, as Mr Rico has said, they have not been appropriate comments. Even some example, Mrs González, as the example of pensioners, is not the most appropriate, in my opinion. It's not the most appropriate. Before I made an observation to Mr Hernández: the assessments we have of a government, of another government... In his case, it is not the best example, to use that example, if we are going to address those claims, some specific claims, for which the pensioners joined, and remain united, and claims that they continue to make, in particular, to his Government. That does not seem to me to be an appropriate example. Quite simply, that. I would therefore like to return to the more technical issue of the debate. Mr. Barrio said: "The need for this is evident. It is clear that we have the need." Well, there may be indicators. We, Mrs Garde, in our amendment also bet that the Health Department goes along that line, but we need a technical element. And that technical element is evaluation, evaluation. And here a perverse argument has been used, which is: "and plans and plans and plans and plans..." "And valuations and valuations..." No! There is a plan, a plan: the Health Plan 2013-2020. And when is it valued? Now. No plans and plans and plans. It's worth it now. What we have said from the beginning is "Let us wait for the assessment of what is our plan, the 2013-2020 Plan, which includes that specific strategic line on ageing, chronicity and dependency. Okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u63	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Mist must not take the word. After discussion, we'll vote for the original text of Mr. Barrio Baroja's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 43; votes given, 74; supporters 34; rivals, 40; abstainations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u64	So it's not accepted. After that, we'll vote together with Podemos-Nozzer's full-line correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; the votes given, 65; the supporters 18; the contrary, 41; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u65	So it's not accepted. We're going to vote for the full rights of the EH team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 44; 75; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 42; the abscesssions, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u66	Not accepted. And in the end, we will vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and of the Euccanists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 44; 75; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 1. Abstations, 33; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u67	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "So much for the use of the Spanish flag in the institutions of EukMondo. To discuss and to decide once and for all." Team proposeer's turn. Ms Martín, representative of the Mist, has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to you all again. Today we come to ask for a very simple thing: that the law be respected, no more or less. In particular, the Flag Act, Law 39/1981 of 28 October, regulating the use of the Spanish flag and that of other flags and signs. Respect for the law is fundamental, it is a basic foundation of any society, and bad example we give if we start to skip the laws, some yes and others not, according to the convenience of the incumbent politician. This initiative is not new, it has been discussed on other occasions. And since Vox we want to enter this debate from a perspective similar to those that have preceded us. We are talking about defending the Constitution, respecting the law, defending the equality of all Spaniards. In turn, I want to go ahead with the comments about whether or not we own the national flag. In Vox we only ask that we respect the flag that represents us all, that equals us before the law. A flag, the national one, which belongs to no one, but symbolizes the equality of all, regardless of our sex, ideology and race. It is interesting to highlight how you manage to change the perception of society and make the easy comment of "The right comes with your flags", when the truth is that it is you who spend 14,000 euros on an ikurriña the size of the cathedral. EUR 14,000 does not go to schools, hoteliers or self-employed persons. Euros that are destined for a giant flag that they use as a weapon to separate us all. "Divided and you'll win." No one better than you applies this maxim. I remember an inquiry to the lehendakari Ibarretxe on this same subject. He said that the PNV did not care about the flags, and he also accused in a playful tone the PP that the aim of the PP was to beat Basque nationalism with the mast of the Spanish flag. However, to the facts I refer: those who, day after day, give the baton with the flags are you. Ikurriña inside, outside, in the squares, and now also in the roundabouts. You are the exalted romantics, the true fanatics and the dangerous. And not Vox, whose history from its foundation to today is untouchable. The fact, the reality, beyond the theoretical burden that you perniciously apply to it, is that the Spanish flag has a clear meaning. Sure and concise. You can see it in the Constitution of 78, the one that this Parliament vilely takes care of on demand, and if you are interested, they shout "Long live the Constitution". That is how we have been seeing it these days with the issue of the transfer of prisons. They do not take half a second to become adalids of the Magna Charter. But when we talk about sovereignty, equality before the law or equal opportunities, you completely despise it and even take advantage of it to insult us and call us the faces we declare constitutionalists. They play, in fact, with two decks, and so you can't work. It's impossible. They're not reliable, they're sectarians and they're absolutely addicted. In any case, is there reason to denounce today that the law is not being complied with? Well, of course, that's why we brought this initiative. In order not to be overly burdensome, I will stick to recent times and highlight the key points of the legislation that we are following today. On the one hand, the aforementioned Spanish Constitution is clear in its article 4.2: "The Statutes may recognize flags and teachings proper to the Autonomous Communities. These will be used alongside the flag of Spain in its public buildings and official acts." But there is something more specific: the law that brings us here today, and which is also very clear. I'll make you a short selection of the points you skip. Article 3, point 3.1: "The flag of Spain shall fly abroad and occupy the preferential place within all buildings and establishments of the central, institutional, autonomous, provincial or insular and municipal government of the State". Point 3.4: "The flag of Spain, as well as the shield of Spain, shall be placed on the premises of diplomatic missions and consular offices, in the residences of their Chiefs and, where appropriate, in their official means of transport". Article 4: "In the Autonomous Communities whose statutes recognize their own flag, it shall be used together with the flag of Spain in all public buildings within the territorial scope of that flag, in accordance with the provisions of Article 6 of this Law". And I'm going to read you the sixth article, so you can see what's interesting about what I'm going to teach you soon. Article 6.1: "When the flag of Spain is used it shall always occupy a prominent, visible and honorable place". Point two: "If other flags are used alongside it, the flag of Spain will occupy a pre-eminent and most honorable place, and the remaining flags will not be able to be larger. It shall be understood as a pre-eminent and most honorable place: when the number of flags that wave together is odd, the central position; if the number of flags that wave together is even, of the two positions that occupy the center, that of the right of the presidency if there is it or the left of the observer." I invite you, after telling them all this, to go to the Irekia transparency portal. There you will see that it is almost miraculous to see a Spanish flag in any official act, where there is always the ikurriña. Please provide an example of this inter-territorial telematic meeting. Irudi bat erakutsi du. Irudi beast beat erakutsi du. We could go on like this until the night, but I think it's been made quite clear. Although we cannot fail to mention the meeting with the ambassador of the Arab Emirates, which was recently, in which neither was the flag of Spain, except, that is, in one place, in the ambassador's mask. We know for a fact that you will continue to do whatever you want. We know that they will, in fact, look for all the trichinets at their disposal to say that they comply with the law. But we will not leave them, we will continue to fight. In short, today we take up the work that the Basque People's Party defended years ago, in addition, with passion. In recent times it has been the Mixed Group, via UPyD and Vox, that recovers this issue. Ladies and gentlemen of the PP and Citizens, I believe that on this issue we have to be together and go hand in hand in the defence of Spain, being clear who we are and who we do what they say. We have also offered them, given the record of the PSE and of the amendment themselves which they have made at our point, to sign a compromise. It should be said that Vox's generosity at this point is total, because this is an amendment which, moreover, must sound a lot to Mr Txarli Prieto, since it is based, with points and commas, to which he signed nine years ago. What are the reasons for not signing even communicating with Vox? That's my question. Can you hate Vox in the face of respect for the flag of the country you govern? Have you lost any sign of dignity by being the PNV's squire? How much is the betrayal of Spain worth: a post of vicelehendakari? You are the Government of Spain, also the Government of this autonomy; therefore, regardless of what you do and the contradictions that it means not to sign our initiative, I announce to you that we will indeed support yours, your amendment. But I also warn you that we are giving you six months, no more, to reverse this situation which I have shown, because if we do not do so, the measures we will take will not be in the form of a parliamentary initiative, but rather the judges will have to put themselves to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u69	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u70	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, Chief, Congressman, good morning to all of you. Eye, that the safeguarding of the spirit of the homeland not only watches us, but also threatens us! Look, Mrs Martínez, this issue could be settled in about half a minute. First, because it is a fictitious debate that only wants to fuel the rift, and because the Basque Government, of course, strictly complies with what the law says. Point. That's it. And secondly, because, of course, if you have any indication that this law is not being complied with, what you must do is to raise the issue to the State's Advocate, and, if you think it appropriate, to bring it to the courts, without previous threats and without bringing here any kind of debate, which I believe does not bring us anything at all. It is a pity – of course it is a pity – that you miss the opportunities offered by the Rules of Procedure of this House to promote initiatives that are really productive or, at least, that attract the least interest in society. And your decision..., and, of course, is very free to do so, we have little or nothing to say about it, but, of course, I will not be wasting my time on the Irekia website to see whether or not that department has complied with the regulations on the correct placement of flags in each of its acts. You'll have me by the hand of those who are leaving their skin to overcome this pandemic. It will have me in support of the public health, education, Lanbide workers, who in a very complicated situation are pushing forward so that these services do not resent. You'll have me looking for solutions for our industry, for small traders, for SMEs. Today, in this House, some of these issues have been dealt with, and I will find myself in those debates. Also, of course, in the control and criticism of the Government, if it has failed in its exercise. That is why we are also discussing these issues. But, look, in this country, before you got into politics, I think we've already lost enough time and energy with the flag wars, and that quota, fortunately, a servant already has it covered. Mrs Martínez, look, you and I are separated from each other a lot, I would say fortunately, and especially in the ideological sense, but there is one very important – and I think this initiative proves it – and it is your own conception of the homeland. Because to you it seems that the homeland is limited exclusively to the display of the flag – Eye! And if they left him, he would be worth it only with the mast, to stir up the adversary with him– and, for me, the homeland is something much more important. Look, a few days ago we knew the news that every American admitted by the coronavirus has had to pay an average of about $23,000, and we read tremendous stories in that news, like that of a man who after losing his father by the coronavirus has to face a claim of over $1 million for treatment. If for me the Spanish homeland – and I have no objection to speaking in those terms – is something or means something, it is to be a place where that precisely does not happen. It's a place where you look after the one who needs it, where you leave no one behind. If for something I want to work in politics and devote my time, it is precisely by moving forward in that social and legal state that guarantees us freedom and equality between different people, that treats us in the disease and assures us a livelihood when we cannot make use of ourselves. On flags, I have full confidence in those responsible for protocol to place them where they belong in each act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u71	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Passing the district that hasn't ruled, the Basque Popular Group representative of Ciudadnos. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u72	Thank you, President, again. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Well, briefly. Mrs Martinez, what you've done has been to ask for the law to be enforced. I don't know, that shouldn't be the subject of criticism, asking Parliament to comply with the law, right? Well, let it be fulfilled; of course, we are going to vote in favour of your initiative. If the Basque Government's obligation is to comply with the law, 39/81 and all, right? If in this case we have to refer to Law 39/81, then let it be complied with. If the proposing group has identified non-compliance with Law 39/81, it is also not wrong for it to bring it to Parliament, we have discussed this. She has proved, she has accused the Government of not putting the flags on when it is necessary to put them on; we do want her to put them on. So we have to talk about it and we have to support it. And it is good, moreover, that when a violation of a law is detected, of course, attention is drawn. Sometimes we can interpret what is a fulfillment or a breach of the law, but sometimes it is not interpretable; if the flag was not in an act where the flag was to be, it is a breach. The Government's obligation, then, is to comply with the law. That's why I'm not going to expand much longer. We agree, we will always be in favour of compliance with the laws, even those we do not like. But this is a law that we like, that we put on the flags that have to be, those that represent Europe, Spain, the Autonomous Community. Well, let's get on it, and that's it, because the law says so. And because we like it. And I want to say that, well, in this regard too, other political figures could also be alert. I do not know, the delegate of the Government, the sub-delegates of the Government should also pay attention to this practice that is done in public institutions when violations are identified. So I believe that, in that sense too, well, the proposer has identified some non-compliance, and it would also be good if the competent authorities could also identify and act accordingly. We have to say that we also agree with the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group: "The Basque Parliament shows its commitment to full compliance with the legal order, and in particular with Law 39/81". That is the basis of my intervention. I also want to say and remember that my group also identified breaches at the time, highlighted them and talked about that in this House. And so did my party from the government delegation, from the sub-delegations, when we were ruling in Spain. And, of course, the performance had its fruits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u73	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing on the answering shift, Mistto. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u74	Mr Andueza, for starters, I will tell you that we are bringing to debate what we consider appropriate, as you do, and we are not hitting on you. That, for starters. Installing the ikurriña and spending 14,000 euros is also a flag. That doesn't worry you, does it?, because it is done by the government it supports. Or do you have something to value for all this? Mr. Andueza, you are pure and harsh demagogy. Everything we bring to this Parliament seems irrelevant to you. This is something we were thinking about, but, come on, I think that, at least, what the friendly parliamentary relationship is, you could have it. With regard to their position, frankly, what has changed in recent years so that they cannot sign what they signed nine years ago? I can't understand it. So right are those of the old PSOE guard who deny Sanchez? The proposed transaction is a calc from which it was signed with UPyD and PP. What's changed now? Mr Prieto has been in this Parliament for many years and, frankly, we have not been able to see what is happening. Have you been convinced that this symbol thing doesn't matter, while the nationalists put the ikurriña in our soup? Mr. Prieto, of course, I have for an intelligent man, and I find it difficult to understand his position. Since Vox entered this Parliament, they have had two remarkable moments of contradiction. The two, in your opinion, have no relevance. The first was regarding the ongi etorri. Do you remember, Mr. Andueza? You voted "no." Remember. It wasn't relevant to you either, was it? The other is today's, where they stop signing what they already signed. Total incongruity, yours, and demagogy, of course. I can say it louder, but no clearer. Everyone is invited to support our initiative. The defense of Spain and of the Constitution is reflected in these three stripes of redness, and you know it. We're all on that flag. I repeat again: everyone, regardless of whether you are of one race or another, without considering the ideological preferences that you have made manifest here today, ensuring equality before the law and the principle of equal opportunities. I ask you for a minimal gesture of patriotism: to vote yes for compliance with the law. I didn't say anything else. There is nothing else in our approach: compliance with the law, Mr Andueza. I hope you do not make the historic mistake already in you of voting "no", because you would commit an act of treason. And you will understand that, following the maximum of Consul Scipion, "Rome does not pay traitors." And I add: Spain, neither. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u75	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u76	Comrade Txarli, always referring to this speaker. I see you have great and good admirers in this rostrum. I congratulate you on that. If so logical you see the amendment that we have tabled, which on the other hand says nothing other than "go to law enforcement", listen, you can vote quietly; absolutely nothing would happen. I see you prefer yours, which on the other hand is also logical, and is perfectly respectable. It is equally respectable that you bring here those issues that you consider appropriate. Against that, in my first speech I have already told you that I have nothing to object to. Another thing is what you can think of the quality, the silence, the interest that this initiative can arouse in the Basque society in which we live. Look, the worst favor you can do to this country is to use your symbols. It's the worst favor. And, more than that, I'm going to tell you one thing: often, the only thing that can provoke is precisely that they feed the opposite end of theirs. That's the only thing he can provoke. His obsession with patrimonializing symbols is evident. And even if I said no, I think it's flagrant, because wherever they can shake the flag, they put on the badge... Moreover, it is very typical of the right in this country, they have done so many times. I remember, when some other party on the right organized demonstrations against the Zapatero government for its anti-terrorist policy, that the first thing they did was to take the flag out of Spain. I don't know very well what one thing had to do with another, but the case is that they used it. Any excuse is good for waving the Spanish flag. And as I told you in my first intervention, listen, that only with the mast would it serve to agitate the enemy, because I believe that for you many times there are no political opponents, but enemies. And I'm talking about instrumentalization, because, look... Paper beat erakutsi du. In any case, I find it rather curious that you stand up to defend the Constitution and even declare yourselves constitutionalists. How can a party be constitutionalist when it is against equality? How can a party be considered constitutionalist when it is against religious freedom? How can a party be considered constitutionalist when it declares as invasion what is a humanitarian crisis? How can a party that is diametrically opposed to the state of autonomy be declared constitutionalist? You have constitutionalists as I tell you. What you regret is that we do not live in a uniform country, in which unity is confused with uniformity and in which everyone is equal to you. But fortunately, this country is plural, it is diverse, and I would dare to say that it is intelligent not to fall into such provocations, to devote itself to what has to be dedicated and, of course, to emerge from a very delicate situation which, of course, has no reference or interest in the flags. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u77	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. "Essalka Populara-Ciudadnos's representative from there." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u78	Yes, President, with your permission, from the seat. I, by focusing the issue on the subject, want to do from here is to ask the Government that if it identifies any non-compliance with the application of the Flags Act, that it corrects it, because it may have happened to it in some act and, then, there has been a non-compliance, unintentionally, but if it is wanting, it will already be worse; so, if there is any act in which the flag of Spain does not appear, please put it, because it is law enforcement. And on the other hand I want to say that using symbols is normal, and also sometimes it is mandatory, if the law says so. And using the flag of Spain, each one freely, of course, Mr Andueza, is not instrumentalizing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u79	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. After discussion, we'll vote for the original text of the Mistoal proposal. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 75; the votes given, 44; the supporters 7; the opponents, 68; abstations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u80	So it's not accepted. Next up, we'll vote for the full rights of the Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 75; the votes given, 44; the supporters 17; the contrary, 52; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u81	So it's not accepted. Five point in theme list: "Provide the proposition as a parlamentary group, as a consequence of COVID-19, concerning the measures to facilitate and accelerate the handling of the damaged sectors. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Iriart, representing the EH Group, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u82	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, forgive my deep voice. I don't know my best voice, so I won't spend all my time today's short talk. In the present day, by this other legal proposition, we have proposed a proposition, which, as a consequence of custom, is more rapid, better given, and more efficient, because we believe that there is a chance of improvement in these assistances, and which we have proposed as a consequence of the legal proposition. We have often said, from the United States of Euscala, that the conditions of the population, which have been placed in the style of society and of so late (not to leave it behind) will be the means of attaining it, and we shall continue to work on that road. And in this direction you will always find us, both of you and others, and in this direction we have found the agreement which is grateful to you in the present day. And at least I think it's kind of gratitude, because we take a little step by this other proposal, which we allow to-day. As far as I'm concerned, Mr. Atucha thank us for allowing us to get this middle-way and a space where we're comfortable, I think, all of us will vote for it. And as he said: It's just a little step, then let's see if this little step has been enough to help us, big, small, and we'll take care of it. So today, at least, is a step, and take care of that step! This pandemia came like a tsunami, passed over us like a tsunami, and we are still swimming in deep waters. In this swim some are better, some more difficult, some very just, and others are drowned in the way. And these measures, which we should here propose to-day, would be a precaution to give protection to all those who are having a bad time, and who are scarcely able to swim? Nevertheless, this tsunami has discovered some marks, some discourses, and some previous attitudes, or has put them into the pyre. While I was working on this, I remember those stones that appear in the bay of spring, don't I? All those stones that still show, even after 2011 and 2015. What I would like to say is, that this tsunami has broken down certain discursive frames, which, for some, made apology for the end of history: these were the ardent promoters of neoliberalism, all those who proclaimed the end of the state and all those who served the free market, all these ultra ultras make a proclamation of the mother and father-state, don't they? They've changed, too, not all these nationalistic Democrats who have themselves not as nationalists, but as Democrats, those khaki military rooms that appeared every day in front of the press and those branded press rooms, weren't they? It was as if we'd win pandemy with khaki soldiers and not doctors and nurses. All this pandemia and this tsunami have also shown the deficit of the state of well-being, and the process of annihilation in the past years; to demand volunteers for the first state of attention or inantication, or, as it were, the question of the situation which has been discussed here but a little while ago about the germinary, has not it? This pandemia, this tsunami, has revealed a great many things, and has also revealed the process of anorexia which the public administration lives in from neoliberalism. And it's also a consequence of that that that you can spend so much time in managing the files. After all, the public administration must be strong, it must be industrious to manage all this work. And this pandemia has also shown that the prayers used in the recent crisis to give an answer, the prayers of caution and diminution, were of no use and no use now. And that's why they're helping us to activate politics, and the mechanism is all over the world, even in the mouths of these ultra neoliberals. As for the Basque People, at least, we have always maintained a strong public domain, a social panic, to resist the most vulnerable situations, to support a balanced economic development, and, in short, to see a state which will have a powerful public camp as a protection and instrument. And this pandemy, too, has revealed the lack of our autogonization and the state's absence. So this pandemy has exposed many stones, coasts, and many stones around the beach as far as the tide has gone. But pandemy is still here, which will last for many years, or at least for years, or the consequences of it; the end is not yet with us. And we'll have to keep swimming in this vast sea, and in that sense we have to take care of our own economic tissue, it's essential to help. Our streets, our little shops, our guests, our economic sectors, our farmers, our cattle, our economics, our little economic sectors, the ones who have suffered damage from the pandemic, are now in time to protect us. Now, because this tsunami will pass, but when we get back to the beach and stop swimming, we'll want living people, because we want strong economic sectors, because we want families that have jobs, because we want a society that hasn't abandoned. And for that, it is essential to give help now, yes or yes. And beyond giving help, it's also important how helps are given. And we don't think it's possible that something has happened, like MEC, the aids for the modernization of trade... The date of the year of August 3, 2020, the profitees received the money on the 11th February 2021. The first request of the covid company of commerce ended on the 29th June of 2020; and it was paid on the 21st of January 2021. There's no way there's such a wide hole in the gap until you get it from the order. The help of May 19, 2020, opened by the tourist, which was the last day of May 19th, 2020, were paid on December 30th. And last of all, in the covid company with the host, the deadline ended on December 10th, these subsidies were received in March March. It's not possible, it's not possible to spend so much time, because cases have happened, we all know the cases, in which the business has to be closed while the helps have been collected. And that's not allowed. And that's the responsibility of public administration. And this is where I would like to announce that all these files-the work of all those workers who manage them every day-are working blind, working with their necks. But by this other law today we would like to offer more means to all these persons. We'd like to offer him more personality and more. And let's go to the last new scholarships to come: 217 million euros are coming from the state of Spain of Euskal Autonomia Erdigora, determined to face the covida. And we won't enter into how these have been handled today, how they've been organized, how they've been designed, but we know they must be paid before December 31, otherwise they'll have to be translated. But what we would have liked to do to-day is that these helps should not be paid on December 31st, but as soon as possible in the autumn, if possible. The last friends who watched the host had handled almost 10,000 files, nine hundred and seven hundred and figs, and four months have been in charge. I remember the chairman of the department said in front of the media that the department was ready to respond to these subsidies, that there was a personal competition, and four months passed and almost ten grand. I don't know how many files are to be filed this time. I don't know. It could be 30,000, it could be... But there will be a lot of them. I don't know how many, there'll be a lot. And the bull can't hold us again. And that's why here's the purpose of this illegal one today. By what we have agreed to-day, we would like to enable the means to enable them to work as soon as possible. Start as fast as you can and give it to those who are benefiting as soon as possible. And the strength of personal and technical means for this or that is essential. And we have agreed that the aids may be rapidly and efficiently given. Also, if it's possible, I'll give you extra support from my Euko-Mods. And, on the other hand, there's a lot of talk about the complex administrative map of this town (udals, diputations, and Eusk0s). In order to step forward even in their coordination and exchange of information, we have accepted the mechanism of improvements to this day's work. In the end, we have accepted the opportunity of helping you more quickly, better, more efficient, even modern, even if you don't mind why not? And we've been willing to go farther or farther from the Basque People gathering, too. We wanted to establish specific times for the Government, if not as far as all these files were handled, or if they were not confined, or managed, to make personal addition. We were also willing to consider, that, although we are informed, the fundamental laws of our time are not able to make a minimum of reflection about those who are indebted to the public administration, we think that the Pannonian has produced a very special situation, and that in order to answer these particular circumstances, special measures are indispensable. However, these two options, in short, we have all to leave that which we have to receive today, and what we have seen on our side is that we were ready to take a step and take a step rather than stand on the road. We'll be careful from the Basque People gathering. In the end, this is a process that starts and accepts the call of these subsidies, manages, and you have to accept the files, and at last pay what is appropriate to those who are benefited. But we'll follow it carefully, because it seems to us that if it's done today, it's a good criterion for us to take care of the management of other people's business affairs in the future, so that when we get out of this pandemy, we'll be alive by the people, so that the economic sector, families, may have something. Because the problem is that the consumption has been braked, and there are a lot of businesses that could go on, but at the present moment those who are still or are in debt or those who have big problems have to shut down the doors. And they've also closed the gates because the Administration has asked them to do so on medical grounds. It is therefore to-day that the other law will have a great deal of approval. We think it's just a little bit of a step. Let's see if that's a step larger or smaller, and that'll show us how long it's going to go through the management of these files. We'll be on it. And just thank everyone who's done this deal again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u83	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. Passing over the teams that were running the corrections, representing the Basque Popular Group-Ciudados. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. The initiative initially proposed or presented, on a series of measures to be taken to facilitate and speed up aid and subsidies to companies affected by the crisis – above all, as a result of COVID-19 – received two amendments in its entirety: one from our group, which, above all, was to focus on two elements, to which I shall refer below; and then received an amendment to the whole of the two groups supporting the Government, with more or less the usual text. And then, however, you can see that they have reached a last-minute agreement in which quite, radically, the drafting of quite a few things is changing. In the debate, in the presentation of the initiative, now, the truth is that I have not learned very well some questions about what is the measure itself proposed, what is the initiative itself. I will focus on the initiative that is going to be voted on now, which has elements that can be positive, indeed, but which also has other elements that, in the end, I think there are issues there that, look, in this the groups of the Government are right: they are things that were already being done; at least, that is what the groups of the Government usually tell us when we present something in the opposition. To begin with, although I do not know whether I understood it in the introduction, in the presentation and initial defense of this initiative, this is a package of measures approved by the central government, the Government of the nation – now called the Government of Spain – through Decree Law 5/2021, in particular, which approves a package of measures of 11 billion euros. Of that EUR 11 billion there is an initial package of 7,000, which is direct aid to self-employed people and companies for fixed expenditure and debt, which are going to be managed by the autonomous communities – ours, in addition, has an internal specialty, as is already known, for the topic of outside parliaments, etc. – and then we have EUR 3 billion, a line for the restructuring of financial debt, and EUR 1 billion in a recapitalisation fund. The 7 billion, which is the global fund, as is known, has been distributed among the autonomous communities using criteria of income, unemployment, youth unemployment rates, etc., with which, Euskadi, what is to be received is 3.11% of these funds, namely EUR 218 million. Euskadi accounts for more or less 4.62% of Spain's population, and in GDP, more or less, 5.89 or 5.9% – below 6 in any case – and, man, 3.11% of resources sounds little by little, is not proportional in any case, and the Basque Government, I understand that it is trying to attract funds by another way; in particular, 8.2% of Next Generation funds have been requested. The proposal that finally comes out through a transaction between the initially proposing group and the government group – which, I insist, changes a lot what they had initially proposed each of them – also introduces a number of additional elements that were previously not; they are the following: at the first point, what is being talked about is that Parliament – it is understood that it is the Basque Parliament – urges the Basque Government to include in the future call, in addition to the economic activities that were already covered by the decree law, new economic activities that could receive aid; there the government will have to be very careful in how to manage this, obviously, because it has to respect, logically, the decree law, right? It is true that some groups in Congress have already submitted PNLs precisely to amend the decree law by expanding the number of sectors; indeed, it has been proposed by the People's Group (two initiatives of the People's Group) and there is an initiative of the Vox Group, but of the proposing groups there is none in Congress. Curiously, in this case..., I, when I present initiatives on which the central government is often urged or sometimes urged, always censor me in that sense, that the Basque Parliament has to focus on the case of the Basque Country and so on. Man, then, here I believe that ceteris paribus, as economists say, I believe that you also have groups all of you in the Congress of Deputies – that is the argument you would usually give me – and if you have groups in the Congress of Deputies you could also present initiatives in this regard. It is true that in the end it could be approved by decree law, which is the way this Government has to legislate and govern lately, first legislation, the rule with the rank of law comes into force, and then it is already discussed whether it is validated, indeed, and then whether it is dealt with as a bill by the urgency procedure. Point two, which I had not heard, a little bit, the justification for it, says: "To provide resources from the existing own budget" – it is understood from the Basque Government, or it seems to be understood – "to extend economic aid to the most affected sectors". Obviously, here we should define a little which matches, with which matches are being counted. Yes, of course, we must contribute – and we agree on that – and, above all, we must bear in mind that these are measures that were adopted in March and have not yet reached the sectors most affected, but, in fact, it is good that resources are provided. I miss the fact that, to some extent, above all, man, the amount has been specified, but above all, of what budget items – which is another – we are going to get to the bottom of this. Thirdly, the third point – this is the typical one that if I propose it I would say: "No, Mr. Gordillo. If this is already being done!"– to provide the human and material resources necessary to promote the rapid and efficient management of aid. Man, of course, the management of aid, what has to be, of course, the simplest for the person administered, as is usually said in law, for the person requesting the aid. We have examples now in the Bizkaia Foral Chamber... I'm not going to get in there, but come on, what it's about is favoring the run and making life easier for businesses and people, not making it any more difficult. The Basque Government already made it public on 18 May through a presidential note by Lehendakaritza, who had hired 43 people precisely for that, so at point three I do not know whether the proposing group has done a bit of cheating, because there is one thing that in principle says that, at least today, the Basque Government has already announced it; but, well, it is good that it is established that human and material resources must indeed be provided. What happens is that this has to do with the last point I would like to touch on at the end of the speech. Point four, which is to ensure the simplification of the administrative procedure, obviously for me this is the crux of the matter, this is the important thing. The simplification of the administrative procedure, above all, would have to come not only by point five, which also appears finally in the compromise text, to ensure that applications and computer systems guarantee the control of times, deadlines, etc. One of the initial initiatives was that it was not really necessary to provide documents that had already been submitted, which could be understood as well in point four. The only thing is that in this it is important to take one thing into account: from a strictly legal point of view, above all, in contentious terms, there is only one Administration for the citizen; that is, in the end there are different levels of the Administration, but it is actually that there must be only one Administration. That is why what we really miss in this initiative – and I am finishing this – is, above all, to promote coordination between administrations, that is what we proposed in our amendment to the whole, to promote coordination between administrations, because it is true that there may be administrations that already have documentation, that already have documentation. Let us see, in our case, in Euskadi, is that the administrations have practically all the relevant information, because, normally, the one that the administrations usually lack is the prosecutor, but in the case of Euskadi they have the outlaws, with which, between the city council, the outlaws in turn and then the Basque Government, the truth is that they already have practically all or almost all the data necessary to greatly facilitate the lives of the people, of those who are administered. And there is no such thing as coordination between administrations in the initiative, there is no such thing. In fact, some critics could tell them that almost, almost, a recentralisation could be attempted at the hands of the Basque Government, because, of course, there is the parliament, there are the municipalities... That's one thing we think is missing. Secondly, an assessment of the measures would also be missing – which we also introduced in our amendment as a whole – if there was an evaluation of the measures, because, above all, in this process it is being learnt that sometimes by administrative traditions, by various issues, some possible situations that have occurred with extensions of the EERTs – we are seeing it – had not been raised at best, then with fiscal issues, etc. I believe that it is very important here that assessments of the measures being taken be made so that they can be corrected. However, we will ask the proposers to vote on points, and at some point we will give our assent. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u85	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. I would like to begin by recalling the government programme, specifically its axis 4, of self-government, and within it, the area of transparent and responsible public management action. Because it is precisely within this framework that commitments are made to move towards a closer, simpler and more efficient administration that avoids duplication; to promote a more open and transparent administration that is accountable in real time; and to promote a renewed and digital administration with consolidated and trained human resources. And it is that the achievement of these commitments is key to implementing the substantive aspects of the EH Bildu Group's GNP and the compromise amendment in which we have reached an agreement. To this end, it is necessary, among other things, to adopt the law of the public sector, including mechanisms of collaboration and coordination that avoid possible duplication between the different institutional levels; to redesign the model of the relationship of the Administration with citizens, promoting digitization and with an approach of simplification and proactivity towards citizenship; to promote a solid basis of data governance that allows reliable and secure environments for the exchange and reuse of data; to launch the Basque Digital Governance Strategy, culminating in interoperability between administrations and with the private sector, creating a unified citizen folder, and to adopt the law of transparency and citizen participation, which ensures the transparency of the Administration vis-à-vis citizenship, stimulates its participation and facilitates accountability in real time. It is essential to promote the evaluation of public policies and the instruments that develop them. In this regard, and in accordance with this transparency criterion, I take the opportunity to provide data on the aid that has been deployed from the Basque Government in order to mitigate as much as possible the effects of the pandemic and to assist economic recovery. Direct aid has been articulated through all government departments (Health, Education, Housing, Social Policy, Employment, Economic Development, Finance...), consolidating a Covid Fund of more than EUR 800 million by 2020 and more than EUR 500 million by 2021, to which should be added the lines of endorsement for more than EUR 1.2 billion and the complementary support from the ERTE. In total, the direct aid and extra budgeted expenditure of the Basque institutions to the health crisis caused by the covid amount, today, in global terms, to 2,190 million euros, of which 83 % (i.e. 1,818 million) belongs to the Government. We are talking about extraordinary efforts and measures to respond to the health crisis caused by the coronavirus, in addition to the impact of tax measures established by outlaws. And, indeed, many lines of subsidies are being implemented to sustain the employment of the self-employed and those sectors that have been most affected, such as trade, hospitality, tourism and culture, among others. The tourism, trade and hospitality sectors have received direct support to date, under the Resistance Plan, of EUR 107 million. These aids have involved a human effort, reinforcing the technical team of the department with the hiring of more staff, a material effort, enabling staff of the necessary technological equipment, and a technical effort by EJIE, implementing a computer system that supports the high number of applications registered and facilitates the processing and management of such applications. We therefore agree that the management of the new direct aid poses great challenges due to the size of the budget, the volume of applications for it, the staff needed to handle such aid, the physical space for installation, the computer equipment and the computer applications required. This unprecedented pandemic situation has made us prioritize and respond to needs and identify areas of improvement such as, for example, including in aid calls new economic activities that could receive aid, ensuring simplification of the administrative procedure for managing and processing direct aid calls, and ensuring that the applications and information systems used for the management of calls ensure time and time control. I am therefore glad that we have agreed on these points which form the compromise amendment with your group, Mr Iriarte, because, in our view, it reflects the spirit and substance of the issues raised by your original initiative, and I hope that the rest of the groups can be added. However, I am aware that we have a point on which we differ, and not only with your group, but also with the Basque People-Citizens Group, in relation to the obligation to be aware of debts with the Administration, and I am grateful that we can discuss it at another time in order to be able to take this initiative forward, but I would like to take this opportunity to briefly express our opinion on it. This requirement finds its legal protection with regard to the regulations of the State in Law 38/2003 of 17 November, General of Subsidies. Article 13 of the Act states: "The persons or entities in which any of the following circumstances occur may not obtain the status of beneficiary or collaborating entity of the subsidies regulated by this Act", as it means that they are not aware of the fulfilment of tax obligations or of social security, "unless the nature of the subsidies exempts them from their regulatory regulations". The General Subsidy Act of 2003, in article 13.2, contains the power of the Administration – also the local and autonomous administrations – to exempt from payment of the debt, provided that it is subject to exceptional justification for the nature of the calls. There are already some territories where these exemptions are being applied, such as Valencia, Galicia, Andalusia or Extremadura, and also some municipalities where, after studying in a specific way the complicated situation that SMEs and autonomous sectors linked to hospitality, commerce, tourism and culture are going through, they have launched calls for business aid collecting this accredited exceptionality. It can therefore be done in accordance with the powers that each administration has, and that is that they are precisely the callers of the aid, and can therefore regulate their own rules. There is no need for the Government to interfere in its powers. In addition, it should be recalled that agreements on extension and moratoriums in the payment of taxes and social security contributions, moratoriums on the repayment of mortgage loans and on the payment of rent, have been adopted by the Ministry of Finance and the foreign parliaments. When one of these extensions, moratoriums or debt deferrals is granted, the debtor is automatically considered to be aware of his obligations, and therefore, by means of the certificate issued to him by the Social Security and the Tax Administration, he can access all calls for aid and subsidies published. Therefore, the exemption cannot in any way have a generic character, but exceptionality has to be clearly credited and motivated, because, if not, we would be generating discrimination by not respecting the principle of distributive equity, since the collection of taxes benefits citizens as a whole. It is necessary to preserve an equitable, progressive and sufficient tax system that guarantees the principles of trust, stability and legal certainty in fiscal and economic matters, as well as the optimal balance between public revenue and expenditure, combining economic and budgetary rigour with the guarantee of essential public services and the necessary economic recovery measures, following the health and economic crisis generated by COVID-19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Eubertarians. Mr. Cuckoo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u88	Ma'am, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good noon. Today we can only talk about the management of the funds provided for by Royal Decree 5/2021 of 12 March, of extraordinary measures in support of business solvency in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and talk about the matter of this government, from the fundamental point of view – I would say that exclusively – administrative. This is a royal decree in which the role of the autonomous administrations is limited to that of administrative management, and exclusively to administrative management. The good man, assisting the objects, providing the wherefore and the amount of service, pays the decrees, and cannot make any difference. That's reality. So, you know, it's just a little bit of a job. Small. You all know what it was when the royal decree mentioned in Congress was valid. It's not the time to repeat this discussion, it's not today, it's time to manage it. We are talking about managing EUR 218 million to put in place additional measures to strengthen the solvency of those viable companies, as stated in the decree, non-financial and autonomous companies with strong falls in their income due to the reduction of their activity as a result of the widening of the health crisis that we continue to suffer. They are finalist aid which must be applied to the satisfaction of payments to suppliers and other creditors. And besides, the decree clearly establishes the order, who will first collect their debts, by order of antiquity, etc. The eligibility criteria, amounts and time limits are then set, and it clearly sets a deadline, a deadline, which is 31 December 2021. What's left for us to do? Take measures in the administrative body which may facilitate the management and control of aid files. What is the Basque Government's forecast in this regard? We must tell him that he has several, some have already been cited. First, to recruit staff to manage these funds, with the intention of launching the relevant call next June. This is right around the corner. We are talking, as has already been said, about the recruitment of 43 technicians for a period of one year, which can be extended to another. The Department of Economy and Finance shall be responsible for the processing, management and resolution of applications, the payment of aid, the pre-payment checks and the monitoring and control of the correct use of direct aid by the final recipients. The administrative burden of management is not going to be negligible, and of course it is going to be assumed from the budgets of this Government. We've been able to get a deal with the EH Collect Group to sign a media correction, and I think it's all right for everyone. And I want to thank Mrs. Houseland and Mr. Iriart for the agreement. Content of the agreement reached in the compromise amendment. First, we increase the sectors that are not included in the initial proposal of the decree, we believe that they should also be aided, completing some shortcomings that, in our opinion, and as we said in the Congress of Deputies, the royal decree can contain. Secondly, the Basque Government will add its own funds to cover these sectors as well. Thirdly, we should, if necessary, strengthen the staffing structure for the management of aid. If it is observed that the 43 persons hired do not meet the appropriate processing pace, more technicians would be hired. Fourthly, there is a clear commitment to simplify administrative procedures for applicants. And, finally, we are betting on the use of management tools that ensure proper management – worth redundancy – of all files. After all, the royal columns go beyond what he has established, protecting more sectors, and making their own means. In this agreement, we are making it clear to direct all the means necessary to provide the support of the groups and the commitment to the government. In short, we go, in part, beyond what is established by the royal decree itself, with the intention of supporting more sectors and doing so with own resources. In this agreement we are making clear the commitment of the groups that we support the Government, and of the Government itself, to allocate all the resources necessary to ensure proper management of the aid that we are dealing with. To finish this first shift, we want to send you our support from our team, because this job you're in front of will make a lot of effort, and we hope to end it with success.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u89	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Passing the teams that don't run, Mistto. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u90	Good afternoon, again, everyone. It is still curious that in the autonomous community that is most boasting of being a national leader in bureaucratic apparatus and administrative duplicities we are now debating the need for single windows, speeding up procedures, avoiding drowning those who request aid with repeated and avoidable demands. And I am commenting on this because the solution to the problem here lies in the administration itself, in the internal division of responsibility, in the disconnection between the administrations themselves. Something that, by the way, should have been dealt with a long time ago and that should have been resolved by now. Having said that, I must acknowledge that the most coherent proposal is that which is being debated by the PP. And I must regret that once again it will be thrown away by those who are doing their country policy. To continue to do evil, to continue to undergo endless processing to those who suffer the most dramatic consequences of the crisis that has plagued us for more than a year. Continue to share pieces of competences between different and disconnected administrations by those who are going to approve today. They know for sure, moreover, that the problems that arise today in this House are real, that each person, every entrepreneur, every entity that tries to obtain aids with which to float after many months with the water around the neck. Yes, of course they do, but they don't care at all. That's why they bet without blush to keep doing it. Complicated to survive with you in command of the ship, even more so when the solutions must be immediate in times like those we live now: businesses that have gone to pick and other hundreds that do not know what will be of them; workers in ERTE or unemployment; families without resources right now; people and entities that already need that scarce money that can show them the light at the end of the tunnel. It's terrible to know that your government is turning its back on you. It is terrible the certainty that your Government knows the problems and knows that they exist. Something that doesn't stop them from sticking to their usual mistakes, let whoever falls down, as long as they don't fall down themselves. The initial proposal and the amendment by the People's Party make sense, even more so when a major economic injection is about to arrive at the central government. Insufficient, but important. What is, of course, meaningless is the amendment by the parties of the Government, which is manifestly irresponsible, insensitive, inoperative and incapable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u91	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together, Poedemus. Mr. Martinezlin, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u92	Good afternoon. Thank you, ma'am. In this episode introduced by EH Collect has been discussed as a result of helping the sectors which have been damaged by this crisis. And from us we did not make any correction, because we agreed with the original initiative, and I declare that we shall consent to the medium between the proposed team and the two other groups. From Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we have defended from the first moment that the public institutions, in the face of the situation of economic and health crisis, should give three very clear answers: the first, to deploy a powerful social shield, which we push from the Government of the State and which we push in all the autonomous parliaments, municipalities and all the institutions where we are present; the second is that the economic recovery should be led by the public administrations, by the public sector, and the third is that the sectors most affected by the confinement, the health crisis and the economic crisis, which had suffered significant damage, must also be compensated directly. And now, at this point in time when it seems that we are already moving towards a recovery, both health and economic, which also has to become a social recovery, we continue to defend the same thing. We all see the development of the pandemia better now, and it will condition the recussion, and even more if the evolution of the graft campaign is good. What we see in much of the corporate fabric – we have already diagnosed it many times – are major debt problems. And we have been saying for a long time that we must turn the course and definitely bet on the virtually massive execution of direct aid and abandon that also massive line of credit guarantees which, in the long run, are a trap for many SMEs and self-employed people. At this time we have seen an increase in the debt ratio of small and medium-sized enterprises, and also, as I said, the long-term risk of their viability. Therefore, all the measures, each and every one of the measures that are direct aid are urgent, and especially in one of the sectors that has already been discussed today and at other times, such as hospitality. Elkarrekin We can, United We can, in Congress, also in the government of the state, have fought until the last moment to fight for this approach of direct aid. A few weeks ago my colleague David Soto spoke about this on another initiative, in this very Parliament, that direct aid to companies in the end amounted to EUR 7 billion, far from the initial EUR 5 billion that had been proposed and far beyond the 2,500 in some parts of the government. It was that 7 billion. It's never enough, but we think it's a pretty big injection of public money into the economy. And we also know the impact it has on resource mobilization also in the private sector when public sector investment is so great. It has been said that the 218 million may not be enough for Euskadi, if we take into account other indicators that have not been taken into account in the allocation of aid. We will always be willing to continue to support the adoption of new measures to bring more budget to Euskadi, but we also have to take into account the criteria of inter-territorial solidarity, which also have to have their weight in that negotiation, and I suppose Mr Gordillo will agree with me on that. In addition, annex I to Royal Decree 5/2021 was also amended, inter alia, by the impetus of our group in the Government of the State. In this case, as in the debate a few weeks ago, we again ask the Basque Government to implement such aid in all sectors which, through this new annex, is also allowed, is being extended. The agreement that you have reached with the proposing group is a generic talk of expanding the sectors. There are some sectors that can already be taken in an objective way, which are those in that annex. In addition, the more than EUR 500 million should be added to these 218 million in the ERTE and then the supplement, which Mrs Pérez also mentioned, which was approved at the Social Dialogue Bureau in Euskadi. It is necessary, however, to take measures in regard to the management of these particular helps, such as elasticity, facility, in the introduction of the documentation to which it is to be presented. The public administration must be modernised much more and more quickly, but with guarantees. Because we have quite a negative experience for thousands and thousands of people in the case of the Bizkaia Foreign Office, in the process of the Bizkaia Foreign Office, in which it has been an absolute disaster the digitization of the income process, which is assuming thousands and thousands of users with complaints presented to the Bizkaia Foreign Office in a process, in addition, which is vital, obviously, every year, and more in a year of pandemic, in a year where many people also have to make atypical income declarations because of the economic situations they have experienced in the first person; therefore, this modernization of the public administration has to be done with guarantees for citizenship. We therefore agree that staff have been hired. The initiative, in a generic way, talks about that, well, if more staff are needed, it is going to materialize, but our reflection is more in the long term: what is being done now as a patch has to be done structurally in the templates of the Public Administration. They're hired to handle these support, yes, but we need to reinforce the plantal structure. And we thought it was a waste of time at least in the budgets that got tested by 2021. We must simplify the procedures – and we agree with that – by not requiring in 2021 that the documents in the hands of the administrations be submitted again and again by the applicants. We also know that not all SMEs, nor all professionals and professionals who can benefit from these aids have the same capacity to manage them, we know the problems that have occurred with the closure of public offices of face care; therefore, all the facilitation to make the online procedures welcome will be. As for the reflection that was also made in the original initiative, which Mrs Pérez also spoke about, on the application of the rules on debts that can be held by the applicant entities, well, we believe that the bureaucracy, which is always a rather tortuous path for businesses and for professionals and professionals, has to adapt to this situation. It is true that there have been changes over the past few months, but we think that we can move towards greater flexibility, so that spot liquidity problems do not pose a problem for applicants. We therefore believe that it is urgent to resolve all these shortcomings that we have identified, and I believe that there is a broad consensus that these deficiencies have existed during the months of the pandemic, during the year and already long peak of the pandemic. This aid must come immediately, because we know that the longer this aid is delayed, the longer the economic recovery will also be. And the more public investment there is, the greater economic recovery will also be for everyone. We cannot continue to delay the implementation of policies to stimulate and revive the economy. European funds are going to make a leap, let's hope that quantitative, but let's hope, above all, that qualitative too, in all that has to do with public investment, but every month, every week, every day that goes without implementing the aid can be translated into more ERE, more redundancies or more company closures. That is why we support this initiative, which, although it is simple in its terms, we can agree with the literality of it. He puts duties on the government. We would have liked to have been quantified, more time limits set, but, well, duties are placed on the possibility of hiring more staff, also in the way in which the aid is managed, in the administration of such aid. And even if we need more investment – and we will continue to demand it from the Basque Government and we will continue to fight it also in the Spanish Government – we think this initiative is a step forward, and we will therefore vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u93	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Passing on the answer shift, EH Collect. But until then, yes, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u94	Well, we'll just say that, in our turn, these lines of money were solved as soon as possible, that we'll be willing to accept them and follow the way we can give them the benefit. And to do what we all agree here to-day, if it were not to be given on the table, we believe, however, that, as far as we all agree, it will be more rapid, less easy, and more easy, than the tramitation of all these former contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u95	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. Popular-Ciudados from there. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u96	Thank you, President, from the seat. Well, we, for our part, wanted to reiterate the two main absences we have seen in the proposal, which are, above all, the major outstanding subjects of our administration, which is coordination between administrations. If there is no real coordination between administrations, ladies and gentlemen, all kinds of measures, of GNP and of initiatives that take place, they will eventually fall into a broken bag because we are not going to make life easier for citizens, businesses, institutions, etc. who have to manage this type of aid. And then, we also miss the question of the evaluation of measures. That is why we proposed in our amendment an assessment of the measures to be taken, within relatively short time limits, so that we can also correct this issue, which is also so important, the issue of combating fraud. And finally, well, Mrs. Pérez Ezquerra..., well, the Bureau has been very generous with Mrs. Pérez Ezquerra, who has devoted herself to rebutting a bit of a GNP that I had withdrawn from today's agenda, but, well, we will discuss it another day surely, and that is it. I just wanted to say that, Madam President. Thank you. Oh, yes, one thing! We would like to be able to vote on points 1, 2 and 5 on the one hand, and 3 and 4 on the other, if possible. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u97	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Pérez must not speak. Mr. Cuckoo. Yes, the word is yours, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u98	With your permission, I'll speak this way. I would like to thank the Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita Group for the positive vote on the compromise amendment that we have reached by the Socialist Group, Basque Nationalists and Euskal Herria Bildu. And, on the other hand, to focus on some of the things that you have commented on today during the debate, so I already felt I was missing something. I already felt I was missing something. And it is that in this amendment there is no "continue doing". What happens is that someone has the same vademecum for all the interventions, nothing more. And as far as evaluation is concerned, Mr Gordillo, the Basque Government will obviously have to make an assessment of how... whether or not adequate resources, personnel, applications, etc. have been sufficient. But, of course, as for the effectiveness of the measures, I'm going to put a simile to you, who is a university professor: it's that this exam we're not putting on, huh? We put the classrooms, we put the staff, we put the teacher, the teachers to take care of the exam, explain the doubts that are needed, we collect the exams, but then the evaluation has to do another one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u99	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Myst. Mrs Martínnez mustn't speak. Mr Martínnez... Not even. After discussion, we'll vote for EH, the Euskal Socialists and the Eucalists, the Middle Amendments signed by the Eucalists. There'll be no trouble throwing it away... , so we vote number one, 2.5 points first. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 44; 75; the supporters are 74; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 1; white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u100	So the points have been accepted. And next line, we vote for points 3. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 44; 75; the supporters are 68; the opponents are 0,0; Abstations, 7; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-27.u101	So the points have been accepted. Before I finish, I'll read you a statement. "The statement of the President of the legislature, the arrival of vaccines against COVID-19, about the entire world. As president of the Basque legislature, I do it and proclaim it as a statement of the President of the legislature, Eucistics Vascos, EH, Socialists Vasuscal-Eusscal Sozialists, together with Podemos-Nodemos-Nodemos-Escanke-Escan-Chailian, parlamentarian-Ciano-Calcanis, and the proposal of the COV-19 which they have agreed to get the vaccines of the whole world. I'll read the full statement because you're on the Basque Web page. "We have before us the most important emergency of public health that has occurred in the past. Three million people have lost more than three people in the world. The world'sonomy can lose billion dollars if the immunization level doesn't go up fast all over the world. The health systems of the nations are almost falling, oppressed by the economy of many countries, and exposed to the subsistence of millions of people. The new variants of COVID-19 show us that we will not win until we have subdued them in every direction. A year later, it is clear that the manufacturing and usefulness of vaccine are inaccurately increased and necessary to guarantee a fair distribution in the world. This requires a wide range of knowledge, data, resources, and intellectual property, especially of countries with narrow and small income. Our societies have already paid a high price in lives and in economic decline due to the pandemic, and this only grows day by day. In addition, there are large amounts of public money behind innovation in technologies for COVID-19. It is in everyone's interest to work together to ensure that vaccination reaches the entire population as quickly as possible and throughout the world, and to this end it is urgent to cooperate and remove all obstacles that prevent it. For this reason, the Basque Parliament: 1. It urges the Government of Spain to cooperate at the global level and to remove possible obstacles to ensuring that vaccines are developed and manufactured in sufficient quantities and are then distributed in time and in an inclusive manner throughout the world. This includes providing technical and economic assistance to other states and collaborating in mechanisms established by WHO to share science and resources COVID-19, such as the accelerator of access to tools against COVID-19 and its pillar for the equitable sharing of vaccines among countries (COVAX). 2nd The legislature demands that the Indies should be supported by the intellectual property of temporary vaccines, by equipment, and by the treatment of COVID-19, and by South Africa to the commercial organisation of the world. And in any case, the European board demands that the world's trading organization may be able to protect him for a while from disturbing patents. And, on the other hand, he asks the chemists to share their knowledge and data through the access of technology against COVID-19 of the World's Medical Organization. 3rd This agreement will be given to the President of the Spanish Government, to the Consistency of the Erythrian Health, and to the succeeding Institutions (Amnistía Internacional, Médicos Frontes, and Oxfam Intermón). It's just that, since we've exhausted the list of subjects, I put an end to the whole meeting. The meeting ended at two thirty-four in the afternoon.
