ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the subject list, I remember that 32 lords and ladies have intervened or transferred their vote. First point in theme list: "The Bill of Confederation of the Confederation Committee of Unity, upon the compatibility condition of the candidates of the Basque Country University Council. The controversy and final deliberation of the Constitution, and the design of the members of that council, may be so. Do any members of the board or do you want to speak against it or do you want a team? So that's all we're going to vote for. The resolution of the union committee. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 40; votes given, 72; in favour 72; the contrary, 0; abstaining, 0; white; 0, 0, 0, 0, 0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u1	So it's unanimously approved. After we've approved our judgment, we'll proceed to appoint members of the Basque Country University Council. We'll open a time shift for the parliamentary teams to take care of it, following Article 234.6 of the Chamber Rule. Do you think any of the teams would like to take the word? No; therefore, according to the article 96.3.b of the Rule, the choice will be made by cards. However, considering other precedents and no alternative candidates, I propose to make the nomination without vote. Does any member of the legislature object? No, so Mr. Álvaro Gochi García, Mrs. Ariz Fernandez de Garayali Ulacia, Francisco, Mr. Luna Arcos, and Idion Halegui Alba in the Basque State Council. Second point on the subject list: "Provide the bill of law made by the parliamentary team to limit the price of the housing fund. To decide once and for all the discussion about taking it." You're in the documentation where you're being divided, and we're just going to argue. Since there's a side shift and a counter shift, the EH Collectors on the side... Yes. Anybody else want to be on the side shift? Anybody else want to be on the side shift? So, Mr. Rodriguez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u2	Thank you, Mrs. President. The president, the chief physician, the congressman, good day. The second attempt is to limit the Basque Country as a limit to the price of the housing revenue. The progress of the elections before prevented the progress of elections, and the progress of elections was confined only to the interests of a political party. I will not stop to explain to you the course of the legal proposition, which has been in your power over a year. My speech today will be concerned with the need to limit the price of the housing fund. My speech will have four parts. First part: in the Er co-operation of the price of income. It is enough that one has relations of society which are not confined to his social class in order to ensure the serious problem of the rent. I might take the whole of my lecture to-day by explaining the cases that happen around me. The price of the rent flows through the patches of life. where I learn, where I live, when I acquire motherhood or fatherhood, and many others. You will be right to tell me that this experience is quite subjective, so I will use a few facts to object to the real dimensions of the problem in hand. I'll use two data sources for that: on the one hand, the incest of the offer of real estate, and, on the other hand, the statistics of the rent trade. Both make a different approach to the price of the rent, and both have several methodary problems. But above these distinctions the conclusion is exactly the same: For years we have been involved in the vortex of the increase of the income price. According to the statistics of the rent market, the rent of contracts that were signed in the second quarter of 2019 was average 688 euros, 10% more than three years ago. But if we use more extensive and more updated tools to measure the price of the rent, for example, the Inchesta of the Inquest of the Incidents, from 2013 to this day, nearly 22% have been the increase of the rent. [[Shows a graph]] I have spoken of the average, but in certain areas this increase has been still greater, and especially violent in the capitals. In the capitals, and in their surroundings, city-turism has diverted a portion of the offer of the housing, and at the same time international capital has been introduced into great incontestable operations. These two factors have increased the state of the capitals by doubling the increase of the average prices in some cases. For instance, Bilbo, 11% of the old side has increased the rent price for the last three years. In Donostian, the Unchaur trees, the Marrushi, the Gros, and the Saumües have had a remarkable growth, when growth has reached 12% of the last two. The increase of the price of income in general has been especially violent; The Zamaram, the Arizzini, Coronación, Judicium, and Desamparadas are the first places of this sad ragazing. In this last neighborhood, for instance, the tenants have suffered 15 percent increase in rent for the last three years: 15% growth. The growth of the income has been completely separated from the development of the conditions of life for individuals. In 2018, for instance, the price of the rent was eight times more than the index of the prices of consumption, eight times more. But let's stay in 2018, a year conducive to disassembling one of the most often repeated and, in turn, less certain claims: "The increase in the rental price is a supply problem". 2018, the year in which there was an increase of almost 9 % in the rental price. It is a year in which there is no special contraction of the offer of rented housing and in which, in addition, the public rental park was increased in more than 1,700 homes, a whole historical record. [[Shows a graph]] Therefore, would you be so kind as to indicate to me, in this graph, at what point the effect of the increase in the supply on the price curve is experienced? What time? Relax, do not force sight, do not force sight, because it is not observed, because there is no such contraction of price. Let us advance in time to this day. Some voices predicted that the pandemic would have a positive effect on the price of the rental market. Well, then, what can we observe? [[Shows a graph]] We note that a year later, a year later, the increase in supply and the withdrawal of demand have hardly brought down the price of free rental housing. In fact, in the last quarter of which we have information, the third quarter of 2020, the price has grown again. A good friend of mine, professor at the University of Barcelona, said that the perfect markets only exist in the faculties of Economics. And he is right: this, the rental housing market, is a very clear example of this. It has long since ceased to be subject exclusively to the logic of supply and demand, to be governed by the principle of expectation of profit. And so, dominated by market worship, we lose generations of young people, while we wait patiently and indolently for markets to self-regulate. It is easy to predict that after these words I will be accused of Marxist, and do not think that such an accusation – if it can be considered so, that I do not consider it – offends me, but I will confine myself to reading to you the report of the United Nations Special Rapporteur on adequate housing as an integral part of the right to an adequate standard of living, and on the right to non-discrimination in this regard. [[Show a report]] And the report, this United Nations report, says: "The current global housing crisis has no comparison with any previous such crisis. It has not been caused by a decline in resources or an economic slowdown, but by economic growth, expansion and growing inequality. Housing has become a key driver of growing socio-economic inequality by increasing the wealth of those who own housing, and bringing those who do not to a situation of more indebtedness and more poverty." Bigarren attala. Bigarren at such honetan erranduaren prezioaren hazkundearen ondorioez mintzatuko naiz. The spiral of rising rental housing prices generates a centrifugal force that throws thousands of people at the margins of our society. Housing is the dimension that generates problematic situations to a higher percentage of our population: one in four people. The more than 800 evictions per year as a result of procedures derived from the Urban Leasing Act are, if they wish, the most extreme and most visible expression of the problem associated with the increase in the price of rented housing. These margins, these margins, absolutely marginal because they are not minority, have gender. Like any other phenomenon of inequality we analyze, the difficulty in access to housing is also feminized. The wage gap, for example, has a direct impact on women's and men's access to housing. Women must allocate 73% of their wages to pay rent, 13 points more than men. In addition, this inequality is rampant: between 2015 and 2018 the number of women enrolled in Etxebide has increased by 31%. Margins with gender, but margins also with age; in fact, a young person must allocate 70% of his salary to pay the monthly rent. Focusing on the very serious problem created among the young population leads us to be aware that the high rental price not only compromises the right to enjoy decent housing, but also brings with it other rights. The price of the surrender and the price of the traffic-prefect have delayed as much as the average. Compared to Europe, he's taken us back four years. The Euscal Autonomy is only after the Eremia, now Italy, Slovakia, Croacia, and Malta. When we talk about the rate of iteration, it is best to be much clearer when we describe the situations that appear. Thousands of young men are forbidden to make decisions at liberty. The projects of life which are entirely conditioned, the decisions that cannot be taken, which cannot be taken further, the decisions that will be lost in time. I'm afraid we're late for thousands and thousands of people. We're late because these conclusions are inevitable. When you can only make a decision, it is not a choice, but a necessity. Hence, this legal proposition also has a free purpose, a freedom of choice, to decide whether or not the projects of life are free. During the debate on amendments to the entire draft Budgets, my colleague Nerea Kortajarena reminded him that the public policies of this Government are primarily oriented towards what he called aspirational decline, to conform or to have to conform with less and less. And he is right, the aspirations of thousands of people – especially young people – drown within the toxic speculative bubble of the rental housing market. Those I have just mentioned are not the only basic rights that break the rental prices. The right of choosing a free degree of higher education is also fully conditioned. For instance, we know there's a concern in the university of Donostia, because at the time of choosing college, the housing trade has a lot of weight on its own. And as the rentals are so expensive in Donostea, many young people reject Donostia's faculty. Donostia is one of the cities where he has seen his changed physiognomy. Due to the different development of incomes, in cities, towns, cities, and neighborhoods, the problems of city-regation and gravitation have increased for the last few years. Segregation, rich neighborhood, poor neighborhood, wealth, poverty, inequality. In the words of French economist Thomas Piketty, "The inequality of property creates a huge inequality of opportunities in life. Some have to rent their whole lives, others get rents for their whole lives." How to impact her? Limiting the price of rented housing, as proposed by Euskal Herria Bildu in his bill, would involve a better distribution of rent through the transfer of wealth from renters to tenants. In addition, preventing disproportionate income extraction would reduce the attractiveness of real estate rent and redirect this investment to the productive economy. I cannot finish this paragraph without referring to the context in which we are discussing the possibility of limiting the price of rent to housing: the COVID-19 pandemic. And I will do so by simply reading the first lines of the United Nations Special Rapporteur's guidance note of 8 April 2020 on decent housing: "Housing has become the first line of defence against the coronavirus. The home has rarely been more a matter of life or death." Given the main consequences of the bubble installed in the rental housing market, it is a fairly simple exercise to infer, on the other hand, the advantages presented by the law proposed by Euskal Herria Bildu. In short, the limitation of the rental price is housing policy, but it is also public health policy, it is wealth distribution policy, it is economic policy, it is policy of reducing inequality between women and men, it is social inclusion policy, it is demographic policy, it is youth policy and it is urban policy. Hirugarren atala, Jaurlaritzaren irritia gure law-prososamenari buruz. The Basque Government's unfavorable approach to the proposed law of Euskal Herria Bildu is based on or synthesized in a series of ideological prejudices – "ideology of inequality", resorting to the term of Piketty – and theoretical criticisms without empirical basis. Inopportune, inopportune; a term that they apparently reserve to ventilate the initiatives presented by Euskal Herria Bildu. Our budget proposal, according to Councilman Azpiazu, was inappropriate. Our bill is, according to Councillor Arriola, inappropriate as well. The inappropriate adjective is defined by the RAE as follows: "Out of time or purpose". After years of rising rent prices, do you think it's out of time that we limit them? Do you honestly think he's off purpose? Inopportunity, on the other hand, is defined by the RAE as "lack of opportunity", as the opportunities lost by thousands of young people in our country due to the price of rented housing, opportunities that will never return, moments that will be lost in time as tears in the rain. In my opinion, the legal proposal of the Basque Country is inadmissible, and, in spite of that, a new regulation is being published in the Common-wealth. It's so amazing that it's the subsidy role that M.M. is in store for this lawman. In particular, amazing in the case of EAJ. But the wonder turns into confusion when we pass from the first point of my opinion to the second and third points. On the second and third points, it turns out it's against the hot control. Let us summarise the whole of the unfavourable approach expressed by the Basque Government: it is not appropriate for the Basque Parliament to address the regulation of the rental price because the Congress of Deputies is going to address a regulation of the rental price with which we disagree. This summarises the view expressed by this Government on our law. Strategy "The hortelan dog, which neither eats nor lets eat." But let us leave the Spanish saying aside, because I think it is time that this government is clear or sincere about its intentions. I will not be fooled: it is foreseeable that in a few minutes the majority of PNV-PSE will prevent this law from being taken into consideration. But it is also foreseeable that, in a few months, the Government of the Kingdom of Spain will give way to a limitation of the rental price. A regulation that has been advanced will leave the application of rental price control tools to the Autonomous Communities. Given this possibility, or rather this probability, what will the Basque Government do? Will it obstruct the control of the rental price? Will the veto imposed today be extended to future regulations? Will they join the Autonomous Communities governed by the People's Party? Will they be part of the counter? Are you able to answer these simple questions? Urgent. The Basque Country says the Bill of Sale is in a hurry. This opinion does not deserve much comment. This bill of law was first introduced on November 17, 2019, 446 days ago. This opinion is, indeed, an interesting saying, that the proposition of the letter is hasty. It is interesting that he exposes the thought of an opinion: the price of the revenue is not a problem, at least not a problem which ought to be taken with regard to indulgence. Anythin'. Our legal proposition is involuntary. In my opinion, the rental control mechanism is not enough to prevent a monopoly or oligolitico offering. This assertion, which is without empirical grounds, gives us two questions. One: And then, what would you do if you asked me to face a supposed monopoly offer? I think of a scene of The Simpson's series: "Tiene que ayudoros, doctor, hemos intentado hacer nada ya no sabemos qué hacer." Question two. To resist the attempt before the Basque Country has been collected, AUBREY protested that in the Euskata the offer was not concentrated today. What are we doing? Is the offer concentrated or not? Is it all the same to use one argument and the other? The Government's next argument against our bill is a logical fallacy or a false dilemma. It contrasts income control with the increase in the public offer for rent. As if one had to choose between a policy or another, as if such measures were incompatible. But what does international experience teach us in this regard? That they are complementary measures. Let us look at just one example, the case of Berlin: the freezing of rent prices and the massive acquisition of housing to increase the public park. Therefore, why does our Government want us to give up one of the ways of action? Why do you want to prevent us from immediately alleviating the economic situation of thousands of tenants? Contraction of the offer. The last argument – if we can describe it this way – made by the government is that it would produce a contraction in supply. I have already referred to how the law of supply and demand has ceased to be the basic principle governing the "free" rental market, so I am not going to influence it any more. I will remind you again that after decades of experience there is little or no evidence to support this statement. At most, at most, we could find ourselves faced with a temporary contraction of the offer. An effect which, said in passing, could also be attributed to the action through incentive or fiscal penalization that they propose..., well, that they have been proposing for four years. In any case, if any adverse side effect could arise from the limitation of the rental price, they would only have to consider it. You just have to think about it. Ponderen, compare, see what we have on the other side of the balance: the right to housing, the right to education, freedom of choice, the right to health... Fourth and last paragraph, which I have called "The Dumpster of History", and now I will explain to you why. As I have just mentioned, this is the second essay made by the United States to limit the revenues of the House. It must be admitted, from the first essay, that things have been considerably altered; and above all, the social movement towards the right of the housing has made this majority an institutional majority, first in Catalonia and the following months, probably in the kingdom of Spain. The veto that you are going to impose today on the debate on the limitation of rent prices confines you to social reality, but also confines you to the institutional reality that surrounds you, confined also to public policies at European and international level. At the beginning of my speech, I referred to the report of the Special Rapporteur on adequate housing. Apart from the fact that this report makes a diagnosis of the situation – which I have read before – this report also contains a series of guidelines for states, including the following measure: "Maintaining a rental regulatory framework that preserves tenants' security of tenure and affordable housing, for example by limiting rental prices, imposing controls or freezing rental prices when necessary". United Nations. At the control plenary held on 16 October, the Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport Adviser highlighted the alignment of his aims with a recent European Parliament report entitled "Policies to ensure access to affordable housing". The problem is that you, Mr. Counsellor, practiced cherry picking or fallacy of incomplete proof, since you omitted that this report in point 13 calls for the establishment of rental control measures. More recently, with the support of the representation of the PSOE and the PNV, the European Parliament reminded Member States that not regulating the real estate market and financial agents operating in that market in order to ensure access to affordable and adequate housing for all would mean non-compliance with their obligations in relation to the right to housing. "Kalean use, etxean otso." Bruselan use, Euskadin otso. It is not, therefore, that the groups that today will reject admission through the proposal of law do not know the international recommendations in policies of access to housing, but have decided to ignore them completely. The limitation of the price of rented housing has a majority social support. Soon, in a few months, one way or another, you will be institutionalized, despite your veto today, here. The only thing you're gonna win or the only thing you're gonna get is that it takes time. How many life projects will you condition during this absurd delay? How many? It is worth paraphrasing Trotsky's words to Martov: "You are unfortunately isolated, you have failed. Your paper is already played. Direct your opposition to where it belongs: to the garbage dumpster of history." In short, it is not only with your votes to limit the growth of the revenue; You prevent the acquisition of wealth, prevent the choosing of free education, increase the difference between women and men, delay the number of the younger, increase the growth of the city's maintenance, and, above all, you waste your time in order to solve a serious problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u3	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Who wants to participate in the opposite round? On the other side? So you're all going to vote? Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. So we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters are 27; the contrary, 48; the abstations are 0; white, 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u4	So he doesn't consider it. Next, we'll go to the vote. And, for starters, Vox doesn't have to say a word... So Euscala Popularo-Ciudado's representative. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u5	All right. Good morning. Thank you, President. As Bildu's spokesman has already said on this subject, this proposal for a law is not new, but the last legislature has already had a criterion against the Basque Government's consideration. This proposal for a law that you call to limit the price of housing rental, however, is an amendment to the Basque Civil Law Act 5/2015 of 25 June, and therefore your proposal for a law begins in Title IV, Section 147. So they are not proposing a new law, but an amendment to the Basque Civil Law Act. But I do not want to focus on the more technical aspect of this bill. What I want to say is that it is clear that there is a need for housing in the Basque Country and that the Basque Housing Act recognizes the right to housing. And that is why, for those who have recognized the right to a social rental housing, as the Basque Government has for years devoted itself to the sale of public housing rather than the creation of a public rental housing park, we find ourselves in the year 2021 with a serious problem of access to housing for thousands of Basque families. The CPV is created, which is the compensatory housing benefit, for those who have recognized this right, the right to rent a public housing, but they cannot access it. That I'm not going to focus now, but the PCV also has its "those," right? We could argue a lot about her. And above all, these CPVs do not end up solving the problem of access to Basque housing, and the right thing would be to increase, as I said earlier, the public rental housing park to meet the needs of Basque citizens. But, of course, this has not entered into the policies of the Basque Government until recently, and we believe that it is important to encourage the placing on the market of uninhabited housing and to propose to the competent bodies in the field of taxation that would encourage the establishment of rents below the market price. Because of the characteristics of the owners that we have in the Basque Country, here we do not have large housing forks, but those who have a second home, as a general rule, are usually people who have obtained a second home thanks to the effort of years of work to be able to pay for this second home. Therefore, we are not talking about speculators about housing, but about people who, well, have decided to put their savings in a house to maybe have a better retirement or maybe be able to enter a residence, I don't know, everyone has their ideas and their freedom to choose what they want to invest in their money or their savings. They are not millionaires either, but they are hardworking people who for years have believed that this was the best option. When you propose a law very similar to the Catalan law on urgent measures concerning the concentration of income in housing leases of the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, which is being appealed to the Constitutional Court, which has not yet been ruled, I have a need to be cautious and to wait for the ruling of this Constitutional Court. And I also wanted to say that in other countries where rental housing has been limited or legislated to control the price of rental housing, what has happened is a parallel to the supply of rental housing. A parallelism that has not improved the situation of families in need of rent. What has improved the lives of citizens of countries that have made such laws has been an increase in the number of public rental housing. That is why we voted against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Mr Martínez, representing the Podemos-IU team together. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u7	Thank you, Mr President. We've voted for the law presented by EH Collect, and, well, I'd like to explain it in a few minutes. Egia da, ikusi genuinely used Civil Law, which certainly seemed to us to be an innovative character in this matter, but, beyond the tool in question to regulate the prices of rent, what we and we thought important, interesting, is to be pioneers in this too and to be able to have the presentation of the law opened in Euskadi, because you use the excuse, for the argument contrary to the law, that as soon as the state regulation is also approved it can be applied immediately in Euskadi through these amendments to a law that would be approved in the coming months in this Parliament. Rent in Euskadin and statewide is a right. Yeah. Besides, this is a subjective right. And also, as Mr. Ander Rodriguez has shown, it's contained in the Human Rights expression, and in different reports of the Organization of the United Nations. That is so, but reality shows us that there have been more than 4,000 evictions in the last four years in Euskadi. 1,043 in the year 2019. 80% of them in the private rental market. Only 165, if you can say "only" in terms of evictions, in foreclosures. The drama is, therefore, and will continue to be, the abuse of price and abuse also in rental contracts. And right now, it is true, there is a suspension of evictions until the end of the state of alarm, but it has so many mechanisms, so many legal oztopes that many tried are acting torturingly and are, unfortunately, also producing evictions. They know perfectly well, like me, like this group, that Bilbao and Donostia are two of the four most expensive cities in the Spanish state in the rental market; that in Bizkaia we are on more than 1,011 euros average of the rental market, that in Gipuzkoa in more than 1,100 and in Araba in more than 860. And one of the main reasons why young people in Euskadi become independent four years later than the European average is that they have to devote 70% of their salary – of wages, usually of misery – to rent. And this is what causes exclusion and this is what causes poverty in Euskadi. Faced with this, do we have an advanced housing policy in Euskadi? Well, yes; do we have it with regard to Europe? Well, no. And the arguments or excuses given by the government in these reports – which are usually quite vague when it comes to going against a law that makes the opposition – say that it is not adequate and that it is in a hurry. I think it's a little empirical definition of what is a legal argument for rejecting a law. He says it doesn't work out. Also empirical. I think someone did that... [[He lifted a finger.]] And as the wind blew in his favor, he said, "Well, then, do not solve." They say they'll keep doing it. Well, we'll support him. In this year's budget amendments we have done so, in the budget negotiation we also did with the Government, to increase public housing policies in Euskadi. But at the rate that we are going, and at the rate that the Basque Government is going, how many people are going to stay out for so long? Wouldn't it be better – apart from doing more and doing better and having more budget – to regulate the private rental market? That, moreover, article 128 of the Constitution, where wealth is subordinated to the general interest, 40 years later it is time to apply it. Finally, one of the last things they say, that income control is a timely issue; there are countries where more than 20 years have been done. And the last excuse is that a housing law will be passed in the Spanish State, in Congress. Indeed, but you, like me, and certainly better than me, know that you will need a development also in the autonomies. Furthermore, let us still be suspicious of how this housing law is to be implemented, because we have been four months late in the presentation of this law because there are two elements that do not want to be introduced into this law, which are an express regulation of the rental market and a permanent ban on evictions without housing alternatives. And that's where we're also fighting from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, because we also know, and the counselor – sitting there right now – has said that it doesn't seem like an appropriate instrument. So, what do we pay attention to? To the words of Mr Iñaki Arriola here saying that he does not agree with the mechanism for regulating rent prices or the government's opinion on this law, which says that, as will be approved in the Congress of Deputies, that he will then come here? Let us be suspicious of this situation right now, and we will therefore continue to support all the public housing policy of the Basque Government and to make amendments so that it has more budget, but at the same time we will continue to fight for the regulation of the speculative private rental market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u8	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u9	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. We are here today to discuss a legal proposition, similar to that which was introduced in the past law by the hand of the EH Collectors. We fully agree with the unfavourable approach of the Government, as it could not otherwise be. We understand that it is not timely insofar as a draft law at the state level is currently under way which includes this same issue and whose law will allow us to establish with greater legal certainty the impact of the regulation of rents in relation to our competences. I do not know whether there are times when certain positions on the issue of government criteria are not understood or are not intended to be understood. In any case, what we do want is a legal framework that guarantees us to make housing and rental policies, as I said, with full guarantees. It is not the spirit of this parliamentary group to troll its colleagues in the Government of Spain. We also consider it appropriate to argue other reasons for the unfavorable vote to be taken into consideration, since, unlike the state sphere, the situation with regard to the question before us is certainly different from that in other Autonomous Communities. In Euskadi, the rental of housing for use as usual housing has a weight on the main housing stock which is far below the state average, and far away from the territorial areas that concentrate population dynamism in the state. Euskadi, today, is neither in the situation of demand nor, much less, of supply concentrated in cities such as Madrid and Barcelona, and that expands, moreover, by its metropolitan areas in a domino effect. In these areas there are concentrations and movements of private institutional investors, funds, SOCIMI, large forks, which are causing a significant percentage of the housing offered to be in the hands of large private investor groups. That is precisely why the Spanish Government understood the need for a law regulating rental prices and other circumstances arising from the abuses of these large housing holders; a circumstance which today, and fortunately, is not taking place in Euskadi. In Spain, today, 85% of housing rentals are owned by a natural person (small owner or small owner). This percentage is even higher in the case of Euskadi. Since the last legislature, the coalition government, supported by the Basque Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, has directed the Basque housing policy towards the goal of increasing public supply by mobilizing uninhabited housing and continuing to propose to the competent tax bodies measures to discourage the establishment of rents below the market. It is clear that the consequences of the pandemic can undoubtedly lead to an increase in situations of risk of exclusion affecting tenants. To this end, the PSE-PNV coalition government has adopted a number of measures for the adoption of which no legislation is necessary. For example, the suspension of launches for vulnerable households without housing alternatives and the extraordinary extension of regular housing leases, or the creation of new rental aid programmes in addition to this Government's usual policies, such as the Bizilagun, Gaztelagun programmes, as well as many others. We are in favour of waiting for that state law that gives us legal certainty and allows us to implement policies based on our competences. Effective policies through legal tools that do not put us at risk of falling into any unconstitutionality that invalidates, precisely, the hypothetical law that we could pass here in this House at the moment. In 2021 it will be possible to implement rent control policies with legal certainty, through the State housing law, applicable in all territorial areas of the State and with possible public action, not only of the Autonomous Communities but also – and this is very remarkable and very important – of the municipalities themselves. May this be the best complement to a housing law and housing policies that we understand to be pioneering and avant-garde in the State, such as those implemented by this Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u10	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, congressmans, good morning. Our team's vote was no longer in the presence of this bill of law, and we agree with the criteria given to you by Amaz. And you, well, have discussed most of these groups around the funds, but I think the discussion of this particular bill of law is now about this, and the theme of form is important too. In the collection proposal, you propose to make a change of 5/2015 Law, which regulates the rental Reformation, by adding a fourth title, and I believe that it is necessary to remember that it is contained in this law that the Institution of the Civil Law of Euskal, which is not only for the Aggregated, but also for the Pacificate, and not even for the Pacificant of the Law, which is not in consideration of his own opinion in presenting this Propy. In the preceding law there was a legal proposition similar to that which introduced the same groups. And although there is no criteria of this official committee about this proposal, it was agreed that the majority of its members were not at all at liberty to make this change which you propose. The Constitution of Spain, and the States of Guernica, regulate the exclusive jurisdictions; for example, that in civil legislation they belong to the State in Spain, it is said, yes. This does not mean that the jurisdictions of a civil or special right should not be preserved, altered, and developed, and that the States of Guernica are acknowledged as our jurisdiction, but that, in our opinion, it is not proper for you to propose that change in the law of Euskal Law. Again, the general or generic allusions of Common-wealths, or Forums, are not either rendered, or not able to make such developments. And the same proposer, as you say, must carefully update the Euscal Civil Law. And we agree with it and agree with it, but in this case we believe that this is not done in the law proposition you propose. The only reference in this law of 2015 is that of the contracts of farming in the field. And the jurist of the art of art, which you proposed, makes it clear, that your vocation is not so much, so much, so much, that you propose a hand in the Administration to set bounds to these revenues, and we believe that autonomical and civil rights ought not to be confounded. And that's why I was saying today that we've come to discuss or consider this specific bill of law and that the thing about form is important. And what we think you're planning hasn't been properly done. We believe that the object of public housing policies must be to increase the park. And that's what he's doing. The experience of Europe has been mentioned, that limits have been imposed on the rebels, but especially in those countries where the rental forms are most frequently used, there are very large public parks. And this itself, those public housing which are offered at very reasonable prices, leads to control the prices of free market. And as an example, I'd put it into Vienna, where the council of Vienna has more than 2200,000 units. They pay five-franc rents of square metric, almost half a million people who live in it, which leads them even to more control the prices of free market. So, I think, without examining the rental limits, or regulating them somehow, we don't think it's the natural solution to the problem of the housing. There may be a spoting solution and at this moment, well, there may be a serious situation in the crisis caused by the covida too, but we think public policies are going on a different path, and I think that this way is well developed and developed. We agree with that. How can we not? And, as I have said, without neglecting to take measures of this kind, we think that the legal proposition which you propose today has not been properly proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Third point in theme list: "In the same manner as the parliamentary policy of the Podemos-IU teams, concerning the partnership of the contractors and the tax-tributors. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, the representative of the Podemos-IU team has the word. Mr. Soso needs to talk... Is he coming? Mr. Soto, your word is yours. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u13	"I denounced for my grandchildren, for all the workers, and for myself, that we have lived with Glovo a contempt of the Middle Ages. A lack of brutal empathy." These words are from Isaac Cuende, the Glovo worker who brought this company to the courts and thanks to whom the Supreme Court formalized what we all knew: the workers of these platforms are not, as the founder of this company said, with absolute defachability, workers who enjoy great flexibility, but what is known in the world of labor law as self-employed fakes, that is, workers employed in law fraud, who do not have their guaranteed labour rights, whose contributions are defrauded, and whose health and well-being no one is responsible for. I wanted to start with this small and recent victory of the movement of distribution workers, of the trade union movement once again, as riders with rights, because it accounts for two things: one, the new forms of precarious employment that has brought with it the so-called capitalism of platforms, and two, it also realizes the need for legislation, institutions and the various bodies linked to the labor and fiscal sphere to take steps forward and articulate a greater capacity to respond to the diversity of forms of underemployment or job-related fraud that have appeared in recent years. Obviously, that of the riders is just an example of the various forms that work fraud takes. Fraud that violates the rights of thousands of workers, putting at risk even their health, and that also has a direct impact in the field of outland haciendas and social security contributions. So, before I go into flour in defence of the main points of the non-law proposal, I would like to introduce some more elements that demonstrate that political determination is necessary to take decisive steps to end these fraudulent practices that have taken another dimension during the pandemic. And it is that the world of work has been shaken as never before as a result of the pandemic. Since its inception, 13,490 people have lost their jobs in Euskadi, placing the unemployment rate above 10%. However, this data hides the few and partial unintended days, the staff received by ERTE who have had to continue working full days, the informal or care work at home and, ultimately, the critical hardening of working conditions, producing a huge social stress on citizens. It is essential to promote inter-institutional work between the Labour Inspectorate, outside finance and social security, the articulation of joint interventions, as well as the need to introduce tax-relevant labour fraud into the annual reports of both the Labour Inspectorate and the Commission against Fiscal Fraud. The ERTEs promoted by the Ministry of Labour and which have had to receive thousands of Basque workers during all these months have been a crucial tool to cushion the economic impact of the COVID-19 health crisis. Well, well, "Make the law, set the trap." Since the adoption of the Royal Decree, 30,000 service orders have been opened in relation to ERTEs throughout the State. Of these, just over 1,755 companies have been punished for various types of social fraud committed at the expense of the ERTE. These infringements have resulted in fines of EUR 8 million, an amount in addition to 2,2 of recovered contributions, which the offenders had fraudulently charged to the State. In Euskadi there have been 2,004 cases initiated, of which 1,420 have been completed, for a total of 120 infringements. And the amount of sanctions is above half a million euros. Going directly to the points we mention as provisions in our non-legislative proposal, I want to say that given the current situation of new cases of labour fraud, as well as the situation experienced as a result of the pandemic, we believe that this House should urge the Department of Labour and Employment to promote and intensify campaigns to raise awareness and prevent labour fraud, including its fiscal dimension. We also believe that workers should feel protected by institutions and insurance when reporting these practices, facilitating the use of the Box against Labour Fraud. We also believe that this political will must be crystallized into determined and articulated institutional action. In this regard, we believe that the Department of Labour and Employment, in particular the Labour Inspectorate, should seek to expand collaboration agreements with social security and outsourced finances to tackle chronic labour fraud practices, but also to jointly develop new control and control strategies, with the aim of dismantling new systemic fraudulent practices, such as those of the capitalism of platforms we mentioned earlier, or to accompany the efforts of the Ministry of Labour through the ERTE. Nor are we promoting, in this case, anything to which the Basque Labour and Social Security Inspection Council has not already committed itself. In this sense, at the meeting held in May 2018, this bilateral body expressly recognized this need and, consequently, agreed to promote contacts with the three outlaws to reach agreements that would allow for the sharing of efforts with Basque farms and the exchange of information, in order to tackle the fight against fraud from all its aspects. However, since then, the reality has remained unchanged in this regard, and that is why we find ourselves under an obligation to strongly urge the Department and the Labour Inspectorate in this House to engage in real and effective collaboration with social security and outside finance. In this connection, we believe that it is also necessary to update the information management systems available to these institutions, promoting digitisation in order to monitor this variety of practices and thus enable effective action to be taken against tax and labour fraud. We consider it particularly important that all these institutions have cross-referencing access to sanctioning, labour and social security files, on the one hand, and with this information to be able to promote joint and simultaneous interventions between all these administrations. Another central element of this proposal is the role that outside haciendas have to play in this process. From the point of view of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, the Labour Inspectorate of the Basque Government should have protocols that include the automatic transfer of all files and reports issued with labor offences to the outlying estates, end in penalty or not, with the aim of detecting possible tax frauds associated with such offences and facilitating their detection by the estates. Fourth, together with collaboration between the various institutional levels of the Basque Administration, collaboration with the Administration of Justice needs to be strengthened. We therefore consider it necessary for the Department of Labour and Employment to establish the necessary protocols with the General Council of the Judiciary, the Office of the Attorney General of the State and the Ministry of Justice to communicate to the Labour Inspectorate, the Social Security and the outside finances the evidence or evidence of possible commission of an accounting, prosecutorial or anti-Social Security offence, which is evident in the course of a process in social jurisdiction or in a final judgement. Finally, our proposal also includes the request that the Committee on Combating Fiscal Fraud should monitor the files of labour fraud with significant fiscal implications and that they should also be included in the annual reports of both the Labour Inspectorate and the Committee on Combating Fiscal Fraud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u14	Thank you, Mr. Soto. We're gonna go over to the teams that filed the corrections. Euscalo Popular-Ciudadnos's representative. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u15	Thank you very much, President. Members of the Bureau, Mr Lehendakari, members of the Government. Also to the proponent of this proposal for a law on tax and labour fraud. Well, there is a proposal before this House that we say adds, adds or relates two realities, two realities that, as I will say in my presentation, in our opinion are two different realities. It is true that they have points in common, although it is also true that they are two different realities. One is that of tax fraud, a concept that, more or less, all people, let's go, all the institutions, people and others that are dedicated to this sector have more or less admitted, what we mean by tax fraud, which is always doing everything possible by non-legal means, by non-legal means, by not paying taxes or trying to evade them, etc. In the case of labour fraud, the concept of labour fraud may be a little more semantic, less legal, in the sense that it may not be defined anywhere specifically and therefore refers to different realities. For labour fraud we can understand what the proposer, Mr Soto, tells us, which, in fact, may be situations of false contracts. I understand that, in fact, a fake, simulated contract is labour fraud. Not paying Social Security to an employee of yours is also work fraud. I understand that it is also labour fraud, on the other hand, on the part of a worker, to have applications or to have, at best, an unjustified absenteeism which also harms the work of the company and the work of the colleagues, because, in the bottom, in the companies or institutions, when one is missing the rest also has to tie the shoulder. I understand that there is also a component to what we can understand to be job fraud. Well, however, the proposal includes two different issues. I thought it was because you had put forward a specific proposal on labour fraud, which you then withdrew, and I have seen that, perhaps, there is a little bit, in the content, in point five of the GNP, which refers to a film to the previous one, but, well, you are here together. We are, of course, in favour, as we have said many times, of establishing protocols between administrations, in order to pursue all kinds of fraud; of what has been called labour fraud in all the sense I have said before, and also tax fraud, of course, because it is not only a question of non-compliance with the law, but it is also a question of insolidity. That's an obvious thing. The non-legislative proposal that raises us, however... JJo! I can't help but see some sort of gloomy criticism, perhaps, of the business sector. It seems that labour fraud is committed only by employers, when, man, I believe that in the example I have set for you, a worker can also incur situations of some fraud. I am saying this for clarifying the terms as well. And, in any case, both things are wrong, and I believe that we have to pursue them and that it is up to this Parliament to control the government and, in addition, to put in place measures of political impetus to force the government, in fact, to take all the necessary measures to prevent and punish such behaviour, if necessary. That is clear; therefore, to me, the opportunity for GNP seems appropriate. As far as its content is concerned, as I have said, there are some points which, in fact, do not fit me a bit, because there are some issues mixed up there, and, well, that is why we are presenting the alternative proposal, an amendment to the whole. We also saw that the groups that support the Government, Basque Nationalists and Basque Socialists, had tabled another amendment to the whole, perhaps simplified, simpler; man, as it is the groups that always support the Government, it is also a bit, I understand, from Parliament, to loosen a little the intensity of the control channels that from every House are always established for a government, but, well, I tried to make a rapprochement to perhaps reach an agreement. It has not been successful – perhaps they will be able to explain it at the turn of their speech. I do not understand very well why, because the proposal that I made to them essentially involved only including an additional point of our proposal – which I will now briefly develop – which is to really increase the collaboration between administrations, but to really increase it, not only ours here, the Basques, but also of Communities, above all, borderline, etc., that said to me "Well, it's going to be done, eh?". If it's gonna be done, great. But for that there is such an initiative, a GNP, a resolution by Parliament, which is a measure of political impetus. Finally, on that the amending groups will then pronounce themselves, I do not want to go in there. But, well, as we are here talking about Mr Soto's book, I do say that we will ask you, if you consider it appropriate, to vote on your non-law proposal for points; if you accept it, we will support point 2 and point 5 of your non-law proposal, presented by your group alone, by Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita. Then, as for the proposal of the other amending group, although then I may develop a little more, man, it seems perhaps too lax to me; that is, basically, the proposal, what it says is "Everything is already being done, there is no reason to approve a GNP in this regard; let them continue to work as until now". Man, I believe that here, indeed, the government can be called upon to make a greater commitment, momentum and so on. If it is already being done, I see no problem in approving a GNP, that is, it could be a bit in favour of the government: listen, to approve a GNP – the government also fulfils, because it seems that, according to the other amending groups, it will comply perfectly – I think it is to point out a bit because the government, listen, also perfectly respects that control function that Parliament exercises. And as far as our proposal – which in the end seems to almost defend us in isolation – I have tried to make approaches to voting for points too, but, of course, parliamentary practice when voting for points makes it a bit more complicated, if one goes out, the other goes down, with which, in the end, it is true that it is a little more complicated. But, well, I have already announced to you that our proposal, which was intended to simply summarise everything in two questions – to recognise, indeed, that it is a serious problem all kinds of fraud, whether fiscal or labor, in all respects, moreover – and we proposed two questions: we proposed to increase in budgetary procedure – so we did – by submitting an amendment to increase the allocations to the Ertzaintza Academy to increase and improve the training of Ertzaintza in the area of prosecution of economic crimes and so on. We introduced it, it was rejected, as you all know, but we introduced it. And in line with that, in our GNP, our alternative, our amendment to the whole, we propose that the Basque Government be urged to increase resources and training. He will probably tell us – and here the Councillor and Vice-President, whom I greet – that it is being done, that it is in the plan, and I have also seen something, indeed, in the strategic plan, but it seemed to me to be an important thing, above all, to send a clear message from this Parliament that there is indeed a commitment – on the part of the modernization of our police – to emphasize the persecution of these types of crimes, crimes and illegal, sometimes non-crimes, necessarily. One proposal we made, therefore, was this: to improve the formation of the Police, let us go, of the Ertzaintza, of our Police, and the other was to urge the Government and the institutions, both outside and, even, municipalities, etc., to increase collaboration in all directions, moreover, openly, right?, or to give institutions room for manoeuvre to increase collaboration with the rest of the national administrations of the State and regional, above all, the borders, but not only – there are agreements, indeed, with Navarra, which is the outside administration more similar, perhaps, to ours – but with all the administrations. But, well, in the end it seems that it has not deserved the support of the majority groups, which prefer to vote on their own amendment; it has political logic. But, well, the truth is that I am very interested in hearing the reasons that lead to the amending groups that support the Government, the reasons why they defend the text of its amendment and then reject the one that Mr Soto has presented and, for example, the alternative that we have presented. I have a lot of interest in listening to you and I will listen to you very carefully. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u16	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Don't worry, Mr. Gordillo, I'll tell you a thousand loves. I am going to start by saying something that is obvious, and that is that we share a word for word and point for point, which is that of the necessary interinstitutional cooperation, if we want to adopt measures that are effective in the fight against tax fraud and against labour fraud. But, of course, it's not that we share this from now on. No, no, It is precisely this conclusion that made us Socialists turn to action, get to work and put measures on the table a few years ago. If we do a minimum memory exercise, I believe that anyone can understand the importance that we Socialists have attached to the fight against tax fraud and against labour fraud all these years. I am not going to go back to the upper pleistocene because it is not a matter of boredom either, but I am going to focus on some of the issues that are expressly reflected in the initiative that Podemos raises. You tell us about the Committee on Combating Fiscal Fraud in the Basque Country, which, as you know, has as one of its functions the preparation of a joint annual plan to combat tax fraud. But of course, neither this commission nor this plan has been here forever; in fact, they are quite underage, they are six to seven years old – like my daughter, by the way. And if we can talk about them it is because in the year 2013 the Socialists put on the table the need to create these bodies, to carry out these actions to contemplate in the fight against tax fraud to Euskadi as a whole, as a country, not as three territories stagnant and isolated from each other. And from the opposition we put this on the table, we put it black on white and we raised it as an irrevocable question to reach a budgetary and fiscal agreement with the Basque Nationalist Party, which then ruled in solitary Euskadi. And we agreed, and together we put it into practice. And, honestly, I think time has given us absolutely the reason. And from there, Mr Soto, we took a giant step, a step that has allowed us to move forward and that continues to allow us to move forward, precisely, in the necessary interinstitutional cooperation that must take place in the fight against tax and labour fraud. And, indeed, we Socialists also believe that in many ways the fight against labour fraud and the fight against tax fraud can go hand in hand. Look, so much we believe, so much we believe, that in the last parliamentary term my socialist bench companion, Maria Jesús San José, who was then Councilwoman of Labour and Justice, also put him on the table. And since 2017 – this is a very important fact – the inspection under the Basque Government has had access to tax data from the three haciendas of the Autonomous Community. And it is true – I will admit – that at first the information came with droppers, it is true, and this question was put on the table to solve it. And on September 26, 2019, the chairman of the Commission on the Fight against Fiscal Fraud, in this very House, informed us that the outlaws were already focused on the systematization of data exchange with the labour inspectorate. And this is very important to us, because precisely thanks to these mechanisms of collaboration a penalty in labour matters can also result in an analysis of the tax obligations of that company. As you can see, we haven't been standing still, quite the opposite. And in that regard, we understand that what you ask us to do in your initiative is already being done and is being developed. In fact, I will be honest with you: I believe that what your initiative proposes to us does not bring anything new to what is already being done and is going to be done. In other words, this government, the parties that support this government, and I assure you that the Socialist Party, in this we are more ambitious than you. And I will give you concrete examples: at the first point, they talk about intensifying campaigns to prevent and raise awareness of labour fraud, as well as the empowerment of the so-called anti-fraud mailbox. Since 2017 the Basque Government, through the Labour Inspectorate, has intensified all its campaigns against labour fraud in all its aspects, and also know the results. Thanks to this, we have been able to transform and adjust to the legality 18,315 contracts. Collaborative mechanisms have also been articulated to address the tax dimension of labour fraud. And Vicelehendakari Idoia Mendia, in her appearance to explain to us the strategic lines of the department, has already announced to us her intention to further intensify these campaigns, continue with the special plan of inspection against fraud in recruitment, and also made an express recognition of the important role of the Box against Labour Fraud. See? They're asking us what's already being done. But I told you, they're short. Vicelehendakari Idoia Mendia went far beyond that and added a commitment to carry out a specific campaign to eliminate labour discrimination between men and women. And something that is also very important, the means, to add effective to the inspection, contemplating three more inspectors and the creation of four places this year, ten more for this legislature. But most importantly, Mr Soto: this announcement by Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia is not mere intentions. We continue to put them into practice, and the budgets that are being dealt with in this House contain precisely and quantify all these tools. The problem is Podemos, who is asking us to do so today, but is going to vote against the budgets that contain these measures. In point two and in point three we are told about the extension of the agreements on cooperation and exchange of information, and they focus on allowing joint action by the tax and labour inspection. Of course, I have to tell you that there are already three conventions and that, precisely thanks to these agreements, the Labour Inspectorate is already transferring the necessary data from all the records of labour offences that are requested with the aim of detecting tax frauds associated with such offences to the outside finances. And another more important fact: this is done regardless of whether the performance has ended in punishment or not, which you ask. And in general, he talks about intensifying the exchange of information processes with tax administrations, expanding and improving the exchange processes. And we agree, so much so that it is reflected in the annual plans for the action of the three outlaws. You do what you ask. And finally, with regard to the exchange of information between the judiciary, the prosecutor's office and the labour inspectorate and the foreign estates, I was quite surprised, because the truth is that this relationship also exists, it is fluid and goes in both directions. With regard to labour inspection, when an inspector believes that an offence can be committed, he or she informs the Public Prosecutor's Office. However, a procedure is also in place whereby labour inspection can, on its own initiative, even reach social jurisdiction. That's already picked up. From the judicial sphere to labour inspection. In its article 16.9, Law 23/2015 states: "The courts and tribunals shall provide the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate, on their own initiative or at the request of the Inspectorate, with data relevant to the inspection function that is derived from the proceedings in which they are heard and that are not affected by summary secrecy." That's the only limit, the summary secret. And, on the other hand, as far as the communication of the judicial sphere with the foreign estates is concerned, so much the same thing. I give you a fact: the last integrated annual report on tax fraud in the Basque Autonomous Community refers, precisely, to the execution of convictions for public finances offences – read it – as well as to the nine reports sent by the finances to the prosecutor's office in which an offence against the public finances has been assessed and two other reports in which, in the process of an investigation, it has been shown that there could be another offence, which was not against the prosecutor's office, but also passed on to the prosecutor's office. I'm concluding, Madam President. As I said at the beginning of my speech, we Socialists have been working for a long time to establish effective mechanisms to combat tax and labour fraud. As a result of these proposals, in recent years we have a Commission to Combat Fiscal Fraud, with a joint annual plan and the implementation of mechanisms that improve year-by-year information and information transfer between tax administrations. Also, in the last legislature we focused on labour fraud, and they know that there have been actions that have achieved the regularization of 18,315 contracts. And today that commitment remains in effect. Vicelehendakari Idoia Mendia has said that it is a priority axis of action of her department. And the budgets that are being dealt with in this House are the best compromise, because they capture and quantify, precisely, each and every one of these actions. This doesn't mean it's all done. Obviously not. We must continue to improve and implement these systems to combat tax and labour fraud. But that is precisely the commitment we have made from this Government. And that is the commitment that the Socialist Party also has. That is why in our amendment we recognise the need to continue with this work which, as you see, is already being done. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u18	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u19	The lady's head. President, Chief, Congressman, good morning, everyone. The object of this equipment is to encourage the action of the government, which is one of the basic functions of the act of the legislature. And I respect this very much, and I respect this particular initiative also. Mr. Rico has made an argumental approach, in my opinion – and as none of you will escape – correct. Obviously, that I say this is no surprise to anyone. Nobody escapes that Mr Rico and I are coordinated on this issue, essentially. But the truth is that in the case of this initiative we initially had the same impression, from the very beginning. That is why, by sharing Mr Rico's approach, I am going to make my own analysis, perhaps from another angle. Pulse tool. With this initiative, initiative of Mr Hernández who seems to have inherited Mr Soto, I understand, Mr Soto... Yeah, you guys look at each other, but that's right, I'm not wrong... Signed by you. I understand, Mr Soto – I am going to address you – that you want to promote the action of this government. I carefully read – the two pages, very carefully – their justification. He makes a description – and I quote him, as he has reminded us today, with which we agree on that, also in essence – of the world of work, which has been shaken, as never before, as a result of the pandemic. And he's giving us details that support him. In general, I can agree with your description. At the end of this part, it determines a need, the need for institutional coordination to prevent labour and tax fraud. We must coordinate as much as possible to pursue such practices. All right, all right. In addition, doing so will provide a deterrent effect for others. All right, too. And to cover that need, to overcome it, we have a five-point operative part. It gives us its solutions to this issue. On the first point, "The Basque Parliament urges the Department of Labour and Justice of the Basque Government...". One sub-paragraph: update, update. The Department of Labour and Employment in this legislature. It's okay to recycle initiatives. I think it's great, but you have to adjust them at the moment too. And it's that it's not once, it's in the whole text, constantly, in three of the five points. You called on the Government "to promote and intensify awareness-raising campaigns and prevention of labour fraud, including its fiscal dimension. In particular, it will inform and encourage workers to report such cases through the mailbox against labour fraud." And so on four other points. When I finished reading these two faces, a memory image appeared to me: a physics problem of the Baccalaureate. Problem: you go, Mr Soto, by a straight line, and with your hands advanced with the intention of pushing an object. That purpose which he was trying to promote was the action of that Government. You go 5 kilometers an hour and the object you want to push goes 80 kilometers an hour. This is the moment when I ask the physics teacher, who is dictating the problem: "It will be the other way around, won't it? Mr. Soto will move 80 kilometers an hour, and the object will move 5." And he answers me that no, he answers me that Mr Soto intends to push an object that goes much faster than he does. A little displeased, because I had prepared the problems in which the one who goes faster drives the one who goes slower, I start to do the calculations, although I already understand that Mr Soto, Mr Hernández, is going to be rolled over by the object. It is going to be overthrown by the action of this government. This is the image evoked by your initiative, although I have to admit that you have improved on the initiative you registered a month earlier, to which Mr Gordillo also referred; it was about tax fraud, not labour fraud. And, who withdrew, who withdrew you, I understand that to interpose this. You relied only on tax fraud; come on, you were going about five miles an hour, weren't you? Good progress. This month there has been a good advance, from 2.5 to 5. After this initial image, I would like to recall two ideas, much closer in time, both from last week's Budget Plenary, in which the amendments were discussed in their entirety. On the one hand, my colleague, Mrs Berrojalbiz, said when she was analysing the amendment to the whole of you, Elkarrekin Podemos-Ezker Batua, presented. And I quote Mrs Berrojalbiz: "Questioning that employment is not the priority of this government is not having read the first page of Berpiztu, the first page of the government program and the first page of these Budgets." Well, by paraphrasing Mrs Berrojalbiz, to put forward this initiative, Mr Hernández, Mr Soto, is not to have read the area of action one, and priority of the government programme, and in particular commitment nine: "Fight against labour fraud and reinforcement of the Labour Inspectorate". Planting this initiative indicates not having been in the presentation of the strategic lines of the department or in that of the Budgets of the department, presentations made by the Sailburu in November and December, but I'm surprised, I miss this because I remember that you, Mr Hernández, were there, in both cases, and seemed to be taking notes; I don't know, like now you haven't passed them to Mr Soto, but the initiative was already proposed. On the other hand, in the same session, Mrs Corcuera focused on a very correct argumental detail, in my opinion. It was very critical for you to argue that the Basque Government was not committed to labour fraud when a draft budget was being put on the table with a sharp increase in that issue. Mrs. Corcuera asked them: "What do you understand for lack of commitment, with that strong increase?", question to which they did not answer, by the way. I, too, was somewhat annoyed by the use of that empty argument of lack of compromise. This Government is doing, and intends to do more. And one of the proofs of this is the impetus given to this chapter in the draft Budgets. I can, Mr Soto, Mr Hernández, give you a precise example of a lack of commitment today: this initiative, this initiative that you bring us. I am not going to develop the details much further to bore you with the detailed approach that has already been discussed, but, Mr Soto, by reading your initiative, the Basque Government and the outside parliaments already have the mechanisms of exchange and coordination that you propose to establish, because what you propose is to establish them. Set them up; at the fourth point of your initiative. That is why, in our amendment, we advocate the continuation of these long-standing partnership agreements, as has been recalled. And we also advocate that specific monitoring of labour fraud files should continue, with the aim of clarifying tax fraud, which is already being done. And now, alluding to Mr Gordillo's comments, which said, well, that the amendment to all the groups that support the government is like a little lax, loose, I don't know..., diluted, because, really, I don't see that this issue is diluted. I see more diluted, perhaps, an approach that you take in your amendment, which tells us: "Establish..." – also, with which, the criticism would be the same – "... more intense mechanisms". More intense mechanisms; stop my intensity. Defining my intensity. More in detail: as has already been said, there are two-way exchange agreements between the Government's Labour Inspectorate and the outlying estates, and all the details that Mr. Rico has commented: the Anti-Fraud Commission, plans and actions are drawn up annually, there are exchanges of information with Ertzaintza, automatic exchanges of information between administrations, progress on the basis of changes in digitisation, etc., etc. And to all these measures, mechanisms and tools of operation and coordination we have to unite and highlight the work of reviewing, verifying and inspecting outlaws. For this reason, we believe that we must continue to maintain and promote these actions, and we defend it in our text. And, frankly, Mr Soto, I see no measure in your initiatives that will improve or revolutionise this action. Rather, rather, all you have done is confirm the path that this government and the outside parliaments have been running for a long time. That is why we will defend our initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u20	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing over to those who have no corrections, the representative of the EH Collector. Ms. Saez de Egilaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u21	Congressmans, head of the legislature. Thank you. We're talking about frauds today, and I'd like to say that this week, the biggest fraud that happened, the two young Arabs, the national hearing, were sentenced to four-year prison punishment. For us, it is a foolish judgment, a judgment given before an absurd record. And from here to Confess and ask our whole solidarity, and say that we are with them, how can we not? Returning to the subject which we are now concerned with, without hesitation, we must oppose the fraud which is given between the public and the prosecution, and defends that we must be assured to penetrate into it. When we're cheating, we're talking about breaking workers' rights. For in most cases the state of collective laborers avails itself of the excruciating condition of the fraud. Eta gaurkoan eztabaidaren lehen laerror ekarri de un gai hau ez da iolaz ére zerbait beria. Because this is not something new and, of course, it is not something that happens from time to time. And young women, for example, know perfectly well what employment fraud means, because it is precisely the modus operandi that is used for almost all young women at first, and those who hire young people almost take it as a model of action, as a completely normal way of doing it. All these young people who are hired as self-employed fakes in platform economies, in what has come to be called the Uberization of the economy, with the sole objective of paying miserable wages and not assuming any obligation in the fulfilment of basic labour rights, nor bearing any social security costs and taxes. Or those fellows who with contracts of training or contracts of practice without any training objective, but just the opposite, with the sole aim of replacing regular employment but, of course, at a lower cost. How cheap some fellows get in some cases! Or the successive signing of short-term contracts and very, very low wages. And, of course, how not to talk about labor reform, the biggest law fraud just turned into law. And they'll tell us, moreover, that this is the chance we're going to use our way into the work world by degrees, que basicamente esto es lo que hay. And no, I'm sorry, but no. The only thing this shows is that it's cheaper to explore young people and that our legal and institutional instruments don't guarantee the basic rights of workers. In fact, when we learn that young man at a table in a modern office or just for two weeks, these are also workers with all their temporal rights. We are condemned to live for a while, not only to live the future, but even the present to live in uncertainty. It's impossible to develop life projects if you'll live once in a while. And therefore we say, "Farbre and focus" in this matter, that the provisional contract in most cases is a fraud, and that the Administration ought to be exemplary in this respect; and we see that it is an example which is not to be done yet. We know and we note that even this government has put focus on this subject. We must take advantage of all the possibilities, and we think that we can do more than that. For instance, a report from the Council of Work Relations had been 94% of the last three months' contract signed by the 2020s. The deception of exchange consists in the execution of temporary contracts, which are structural and infinite. And this is precisely what is happening in the Esscal Administration, where the 58.700 workers work for the Esscal Administration, however ancient they may be, endure this abuse. And this, yes, is a legal press. And it's also relevant to the fact that the Osalome Workers are suffering, and much more, in this abnormal situation of ours. While in the first row they make all the efforts to offer decent public health, they sign more than 20 temporary contracts in a year, from one contract to the other, with all the emotional and busy burdens that it presupposes. And all this serves us to locate the reality that we're living now. The fraud given in public Empeduation is not only for EH Collect, but a small chronicle of the abuse situations which live daily. And this, for instance, was the case when all the unions were asked for the opinion of public employment in the very act of the committee this week. And thus several judicial judgments have been stated, as well as the decisions of the judicial courts of the European Union. The temporary employment rate in the EAE Administration opens the direct passage of Europe to the temporal contraction. And that's fraud. This, however, we say, we think, that the other proposition, as it is set forth, does not produce, or suppose much innovation, with what has hitherto been proposed. It seems to us that we have been led to make a call for the tools which have hitherto been used, such as the Sentiment campaigns, the formation against the factory, or the collapse of institutions. At the end of the legislation we discussed a similar proposition, and from our party there was also a middle-term proposal. It seems to us that our affair at this hour's agreement does not change much. And similarly in the middle of the media, in six months' time, it was proposed to define a protocol for integrated coordination between all administrations. And in this employment, it was given the protagonism of the syndicate delegation, it gave him a special importance, and it seems to us that this protagonism in our proposal today was not brought into the first line. It is, therefore, essential to us in this matter to proclaim the euscal scope of the relations, because we need real tools to deal with the temporal fraud and the prosecutor in efficiency, and he will offer us them. We need an integration of the decision of the Basque institutions with the union and economic agency, and, of course, adapted to the sociative reality of Euscal. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. We'll take the answers turn. Together, Podemos-IU. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u23	I'll start by reading a few words from Professor Ignacio Zubiri. Words he expressed right here in the Basque Parliament in 2016. He asked a question, which was: "How much do Basque farms collect in the fight against fraud? Impossible to know, because each counts different things. How many tax inspectors are there in Euskadi? I don't know, I think one of Fatima's mysteries is less guarded than information about tax fraud in the parliaments." In turn, he extended this to work fraud. I do not know if much is done against fraud in Euskadi. What is true is that society believes it is not, because this is indicated by the surveys. What is obvious is that reality is overturning them. Placed here to receive physics classes, which we have also received at some point in English, what reality does with the approaches that the Basque Government applies in relation to tax and labour fraud is that reality overturns them. Because, despite the mechanisms that have been put in place over the last few years – which many of them are certainly worth appreciating – it is true that in view of what citizens interpret from reality, as well as of the union representation of the body of officials in these specific areas, it is always revealed that more means, more coordination and more dialogue are needed between the different levels, both institutional and administrative. And if that is the case, then the citizenry sees it this way and also the body of officials expresses it this way, how it is possible for us to boast and have such a self-congratulating speech in relation to labor and tax fraud, because it is basically what I have interpreted, deduced, from the words of the representatives of the parties that support the Basque Government. It is true that much rhetoric has been applied in this case, but what is also evident in the reports on tax and labour fraud is that we are ten years, ten years behind what is being done at state level. As for the new inspectors, who were said to have basically been the Socialist Party that has been expanding the staffing levels, in the 2020 budget agreement, as it was talking about budgetary arrangements, it was precisely Elkarrekin Podemos who proposed and agreed on an increase in the staffing level of inspectors in the Labour Inspectorate branch. Yes, yes, and it was agreed in 2020. Also in view of 2021 we made the same bet. It has not been accepted by the parties that support the Government in the amendment tabled by our political formation to increase the corps of inspectors. So I don't know where you see that our commitment in this regard is not comparable to yours, because beyond mentioning the achievements that, in your opinion, the Socialist Party has implemented in this matter – which, of course, I am not going to be the one who denies them – I don't understand why it uses that terminology to reproach us for a lack of commitment in that regard. With regard to the representative of the People's Party, I have to say that we are prepared to vote on points and to mention that we do not demonise the company; in more than one speech I have heard from him, and I do not really understand why he draws such a conclusion. When we propose the exercise of business and the application of the free market, what we propose is intervention by the public administrations to ensure that this is done under decent conditions and that, of course, in this particular case, they guarantee the labour rights of workers, but in no case do we demonise or have absolutely nothing against entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u24	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Euscalo Popular-Ciudadnos's representative. Mr. Gordillo has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u25	Thank you very much, President. Well, I've been a little bit the same with the explanations we've had... I guess they'll leave him for the final shift. It's a shame because then I won't have a turn to replicate, but, well, I understand you've also raised it that way, right? Let's see. With regard to the GNP put forward by the proposer, we have already taken our position. We do share part, above all, of the diagnosis, and it is that the Public Administration is an entity that has to be constantly modernizing. And that's why we see the opportunity in a GNP of this kind. And I believe that, implicitly, you too, because, if not, you would have simply voted against GNP rather than put forward an alternative. I understand everything. I understand that there is a group that presents a GNP because it is interested in talking about a subject, I understand that the groups of the Government, what they want is to make it easier for the Government and, therefore, to rewrite the GNP so that it affects or compromises it as little as possible. I understand all that, but, man, on a subject like this, our group at least, we are going to show responsibility and reiterate what we have been saying, our hand stretched out, and that is why we are going to vote on some point in the original resolution. And I say to you that we are also going to vote, because, surely, our amendment will not go ahead, but even so and despite the fact that we have not wanted or have not reached a compromise in the end, we are going to vote on paragraphs 2 and 3 of your amendment as a whole. It is far behind what we are trying to achieve, because it simply says that the Government is already doing everything and that nothing, let it continue like this, that this is very good. But, well, it's better than nothing. And that is why we understand that this must also be on the table and that the Government and the Administration must be constantly modernizing, devoting more resources. More intense mechanisms. "What are the most intense mechanisms?", I wondered Mr. Aiartza. Well, man, it's just, let's see, as long as there's still tax fraud, it's just that we have to keep improving, obviously. Keep going. No, but it's just that you guys call us "No, go on like this." No, look, keep it that way... Get better, go for more. Well, look, joint plans, especially with other administrations. Joint plans, sharing research intelligence in these sectors, which here are quite reluctant the administrations, not only the local ones here, the Basque one and also the national one, that of this topic something yes... And then joint initiatives also on inspection issues and so on. Those are the issues that we raised. Man, Mr. Rico said, "No, we're more ambitious than the proposer." I'm not going to debate the proposer either, but, man, ambitious... Look at your amendment, which is three very short paraphytes that everything is phenomenal. Man, Mr. Soto says, "No, it's that he rewritten it, republished one he had, recycled it..." Well, it's a little more detailed. One may or may not agree, but it is a little more detailed. That's why, man, ambition, ambition... Well, I think that little, but it comes within the usual, on the part of the groups of the government, that what they do, of course, is stop the political blows – I understand – that can come to the government. They coincide, however, with the amendment to the whole and the initial one on the subject of campaigns, in devoting resources to campaigns and such... Man, the campaign thing is fine, but I think the best campaign is the efficiency of the administration. That is why we believe that the best destination of resources is precisely to improve the structure, the material and human means. In short, and with this I am finishing, what makes the amendment of the two groups of the government... Good thing Mr. Aiartza told us they were coordinated! Otherwise, we wouldn't have found out. Man, obviously, they're coordinated. They are the two groups that support the Government. But, well, hey, that's fine. They haven't convinced me much of their reasons, but, well, I understand that they have a majority and they're going to enforce it. And that is why – and with this, I simply finish – we on this issue, as in others that we believe to be of major importance to society, we keep our hand open, and that is why I say to you that, although you will surely reject the amendment that we, as yours is ultimately voted on, we will support points 2 and 3 of your amendment, because, although it does not go as far as we would like, we will always make a greater commitment to the Government in this regard, at least we believe that it is better than nothing and, above all, that it is good to have this debate on the table, because the improvement of the Administration is something in which we all have to stand on top and, above all, to hold the Government accountable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u26	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u27	Thank you, Madam President. How unfair that the turn of the replica has only 5 minutes, which is when we can get into the debate! Maybe we'll have to take a look at this once in a while. That being said, I just don't think this is going to weigh. Here Mr Gordillo does not go: "No, it is that he has 5 points the amendment of Podemos". Yes, 5 points and, if you've heard me, in those 5 points it says nothing. Nothing's nothing. Nothing different than what you're doing. I, when we were in opposition to the Socialists, never conceived our performance on the basis of weighing on a scale how much we weighed the initiatives we put in, whether they were 3 pages, 12 points or 4. And you who, like me, have legal training, know that I concise it, on many occasions, is much more virtuous than what develops in excessive pages. I am not here to defend an amendment. No, no, Do not stick to the amendment we have tabled. What I am defending is what that amendment says, and that is that we continue to work on what is being done. And that is the main basis, which will continue to be improved, for all these issues to continue to develop, because there is one question that is clear: not all is done. As long as there is tax evasion, as long as there is tax fraud, as long as there is labour fraud, we have to continue to act. What I am saying is that precisely what we are proposing is what this government is doing. And that's the big difference. The Lords of Podemos. You had an initiative last year's legislature, you recycled it, you've only changed one thing, which is in relation to the ERTE inspections. And there they have lost two opportunities to escape the propaganda and the autobomb. One, which seems very ugly to me to say that this is from the Ministry of Labour of Spain. This is from the Government of Spain. We can also talk about the improvements that have also been made by the Basque Government for some of the people affected by the ERTE. And another thing that seems even more ugly to me: you have missed the opportunity to put here all the data you have at your disposal. He just told me about the inspections the ministry does. And why are they asking this government for a request for documented information, asking for the inspections carried out by the Basque inspection? He's got the data, just like me. Why are you hiding it? To say it's not being done? Man! And here he's lost a golden opportunity. This is not about putting the Spanish Government in competition with the Basque Government. Not at all, not at all! This is more serious! This is a lot more serious. He says, "No, he accuses us of a lack of commitment." Well, yes, yes, I accuse Podemos of lack of commitment. But you know why? Because I've lived it, it's that we're all past here. I come from the General Councils of Bizkaia, and at the General Councils of Bizkaia I was the tax spokesman for my party, and I still have my eyes as dishes, as dishes, when we agreed the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party with EH Bildu to introduce in the general tax rule of Bizkaia an anti-circumvention clause – Mr. Jon Andoni Atutxa lived with me. And where was we? Abstaining. Abstaining. Of course, when it comes to the truth, when it comes to voting Pesuppositions in which they are carried – such as these Budgets of the Basque Government that are being dealt with – all the measures you ask for in this initiative, Podemos, looking elsewhere. There are others to do the job. We got the speech. It's just that that's so easy! That's how easy it is to do politics. Mr Soto, look, I've taken up here an initiative from the Bizkaia General Councils, from this time of the past that we all have. [[Show some papers]] Aim. See the stamps? Socialist Party and Basque Nationalist Party. Jon Andoni Atutxa and I signed it. Proposal for a rule on tax fraud. Point one: "The role of the Interinstitutional Commission to Combat Fraud needs to be expanded so that regular studies are carried out on the quantification of tax fraud and the submerged economy". And it is requested that the CST be requested to expand the functions for the inclusion of these studies on a regular basis. Remember the fifth point of your initiative today. "The Bizkaia General Councils urge the Bizkaia Provincial Council to deepen the signing of agreements for the exchange of information with economic content in public administrations and with other agents whose information may be relevant to the fulfilment of their tax obligations." Point three. "The instruments of administrative cooperation and mutual assistance should be strengthened through automatic exchanges of information and the development of controls coordinated with the State Tax Agency". And "it is urged to provide inspection services with more material and personal resources according to budgetary possibilities". Votes in favor? We can't. But how am I not going to accuse you of looking elsewhere! Sure! And, man, if that's your attitude, I'll leave it to you. I have always conceived politics as a tool to do real things. We're going to continue in that, and if you want to participate, we'll be waiting for you. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u28	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u29	Thank you, ma'am. Three ideas, right?, that are united, that have emerged, in my opinion, eh?, in my opinion. Starting with Mr. Gordillo. "We will be able to contribute globally, in concrete terms." Good, good. If we agree! But stop it, stop it in your text. You have to determine it, don't you? You have to write it down. That "Let's amplify..." thing. What? What measures? What tools? How? When? With what deadlines? Don't you? Determination. Determination. Yes, because in the text game, which we are talking about today, I had made a scheme – and Mr. Rico and I had commented on it – before the original initiative, the initiative of Mr. Hernández, written by Mr. Hernández. We could have voted in favour. We could have voted in favour. Of course I do! If we had followed an analysis criterion of the type "To what do we commit this?". If we're doing it, if it's doing it! The government is doing it. It's going beyond that. But should we vote for that, Mr Gordillo? Should we vote in favour? Well, it would seem to me a lack of seriousness, of rigor. I believe that we have to bear in mind the effort that this government is making – and that it wants to continue doing – a government that is going further than we are being asked to do. So, there's one of the explanations. Stop it in a text and I'm sure that if, after doing an improvement margin exercise you determine it in a text, or whatever training it is, I'm sure we'll come to an agreement, but determination. You can't accuse us of lack of concreteness when all the texts I've seen... Okay? Mr. Soto used to say, "Reality's on you, isn't it? Reality beats us, reality. Well, then, if reality hits us, I'd tell you: you're doing your job very badly, because if there's a reality that's rocking what this government is doing, listen, why don't you put a list of issues – from that impulse function – that we should do to improve in the face of that tsunami that's rocking us or facing that tsunami that's rocking us? Actually, it is you who are being beaten, as I have told you in my example, that I did not intend to give you..., little kind of physics I can give, and that was not the pretension. "Reality brings them down." Well, the idea in circles. Determine. If we're delighted! And I want to join him with another idea: complacency – Mr. Soto also said – "your complacency." Well, the Sailburu said it here, in the presentation of the department's basic lines – referring to these issues – and I quote: "they are our big holes and we want to plug them." In other words, the Government is recognizing that margin of improvement. But stop it and put it in your initiatives. It's just that you guys do that... I once accused Mr. Hernandez that he's starting to copy us, isn't he? It is that the texts of the parties or the formations, the groups that we defend the Government are or have to be such to enter into the game of debate and the game of closing texts. But yours? I don't understand. With which, self-congratulation, nothing. Even so, even without complacency and recognizing margins of improvement, which I hope will help us to overcome, yet this government goes to 80 and intends to go to 90, and you go to 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u30	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Unite the EH team as representative. Ms. Saez de Egilaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u31	Well, we'd like to go deeper into some of the things we've been talking about, because we've seen that so far there's been so few discussions about it. We know that the crisis created by COVID-19 will leave enormous consequences and leave them in employment and enterprises, and that the situation produced in this context will cause trouble. For some companies, after they have received the public funds, use the state of the pandemia in an interested manner, and without any apparent justification, in order to destroy their employment by fraud, which implies an immense imprudence to the workers. Focus must be placed for us in the form of work; we mean that we represent it in this manner, and that, no doubt, this reform presupposes certain facts. So, that's what happened this week, for instance, in Barakdo and the PCB Plants in Sesta. In this case, Labour has acted, and has made an impression against the public-estates that the causes which the company employs are conventional, and that it cannot be a useful cause to start a collection. But here in 2012, because of the form of work supported by the Poppst Party, the company has been able to act without heeding what the inspector himself had said, because the company has the last word, and only to appeal to the courts in defence of their employments. It is clear that we need actual opportunities of negotiating with the workers' representatives, and that in this case we need to be able to continue the public administration's criteria as well. This is why we have set the necessity of suspending the form of work in the first line, and it seems to us as a party, and as a political representative, that we all have a duty to do so, because we must destroy all who are able to act against the workers and the whole multitude. And, yes, when we're talking about the legal press, we're also talking about the form of work. The things we've been talking about today are very important. Therefore, in general, we must use all the tools we have over the table to finish the press of the law, and if necessary, because the law produces more uncertainty and preventive effects, because it produces more than we have, and we think it possible to resist it. That's why we have to use all the tools we have to use. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. The discussion is over. We're going to vote, and first we'll vote together the original text of our proposition as a Podemos-IU. No points requested. I don't think it's a problem, so we vote first one, 3, 4 points. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u33	So they didn't accept it. Next up, we'll vote for 2 and 5 points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 33; the opponents, 41; abstations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u34	So 2 and 5 points have not been accepted. Next, we'll vote for the full correction of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudads. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; the votes are 74; the supporters 7; the opponents are 61; Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u35	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. Next, we vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociialists of Eukalia, the general corrections which have been introduced by the teams. And first, 1, 4 points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 40; the contrary, 28; the abstainments, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u36	So they've been accepted with 1 and 4 points. After that, we'll vote for two and three points. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; the votes that are given, 74; the supporters, 47; the opponents of the enemy, 27; the abstainments, 0; white, 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u37	So there's two and three points taken. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposal of the popular group of Euscal-Ciudadanos as a parlamentary group of parliamentary groups about an exhibition of competition in the Esscal corporations which export the products. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Madame Larre, the representative of the Basque Popularo-Ciudadanos, has the word to present and take over the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u38	Thank you. I will start by giving a series of data, which in addition to supporting my initiative will shed light on a sea of data in which we can drown if we do not take out what really matters. We are not here to self-pity for how well we are doing, but to improve on everything we do. There is an urgent need for continuous improvement. In this and all the jobs – at least, that's how I see it, that's how I see life – growth and continuous improvement, I repeat. Let's start with the data we pulled from the Eustat. In 2018, exports amounted to 25,487,514,000 euros. In 2019, exports had a negative variation of 0,4 %. In 2020, in the first quarter we started badly: we dropped by 9.9%. The pandemic is coming and we're down 22.9%. And the third quarter of last year we accumulated a fall of 19.7 over the same cumulative period of the previous year. And now I will give you other data from the Monthly Report on Foreign Trade prepared by the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism; by Autonomous Communities is this text. We are among the Autonomous Communities experiencing a greater drop in the rate of annual variation in their exports: 7.8% negative. Let us see what happens in March 2020: we see that, with respect to the other Communities, we are still the ones who lose the most, with a negative balance of 9.9. In March, Aragon was able to grow by 0.4%. And now, how are we? Well, we're down 19.7%. Extremadura is the only one that achieves a positive rate of 4.1% of exports. When others are growing, we fall, and when most fall, we are the ones who fall the most. Logic tells me we're not doing things right. But when I go to investigate what we are doing, I turn to the catalogue of aids we have through SPRI. And yes, yes, we have help: Zabaldu, Sakondu, Elkartu, Pilotu, Gauzatu, Beint, GT... , and are proposed through the Basque Internalisation Agency-Basque Trade & Investment. A little over 19 million. Well, not bad, huh? So much money, I don't know how we're not going like a shot in terms of exports. And look, right now I'm going to minimize the explanation of how the export issue works. And I reduce it to a minimum so that I can understand: a gentleman invests his capital, sets up a company, a factory, starts to manipulate a product, creates it, based on raw materials, sells it to his neighbours, to other countries of the European Union, or to third parties. Here we enter to compete with other companies in other countries, with other aid programmes, if they exist. And in view of the data I have previously offered you, we Basques must not be very competitive, when we do not grow at the pace of others; we even fall more than others. And, gentlemen, underfoot, horse, king. I see it very clearly. Or we do as Germany did, doubling its investment in R & D+i, assuming that, if we're not the only ones, we're going to be the best... To be able to export more than others we need to be competitive; not only in quality, but also in price. What have we done? Maintain the level of investment in R+D+i. So, we haven't been betting on being the best. Although I recognise that the qualities of Basque exports are the best of the international market, this is not enough at a time when all economies are falling: consumption is falling. We need to find a way to put our products, our Eusko Label, on the market, competing in quality and price. To lower the price of a product, in a somewhat rude way, you need several things: to lower costs. How? Increasing productivity and lowering the cost of production, maintaining and improving the purchasing power of our workers. Well, how? Helping procurement to increase the production of exporting companies. And I'm always talking about pyme. You, the parties supporting the Government, were proposing to me an amendment that would give continuity to the existing programmes, which, in the light of the data, do not work, since the Basque Autonomous Community is not able to maintain its level of exports and when it grows, it does so less than the others. Don't you think it's time to change the way things are done? Our entrepreneurs do not access their programs, which seem to be designed or designed ex-professionally for certain entrepreneurs and not for all. And I quote textually one of the requirements of all existing programs: "Every eligible service will have to be requested from Basque Trade in advance". And what does Basque Trade become? In a mandatory step chiringuit to get a grant? A toll? Can companies not access the subsidy with the advice of another external company? For this reason, by making a thorough analysis of how to bring Euskadi to resilience, we need many exporting companies. And not just many exporting companies but exporting a lot, to bring money here. Companies need not only support for the hiring of skilled personnel for export in practices, but also to provide subsidies for the hiring of operators for production, and by expanding investment programmes in leading machinery, which already exist, but which should not be sufficient when the results are not what we want to achieve. If our exporting companies grow there will be more contracts and more wealth in Euskadi, money will move, as is often said. This has been seen in northern Europe for years. We have a chance to keep improving. I think we must continue to improve, because our citizens deserve it and because it will make everyone here live better. A while ago I had this GNP with the firm objective of putting on the table the demands of many entrepreneurs, who seem a little abandoned in the vortex of the competitive world in international markets, and not only in Europe but in front of the rest of the world. And I'd like you to consider my exposure to change things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Passing the teams that were running the corrections, representative of the Socialist Basque Group. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u40	If his sincere will was to change the situation of Basque companies in terms of internationalization, the first thing he should have done, after presenting this initiative and knowing that the groups we support the Government had an amendment, was to try to reach an agreement. We haven't heard from you. If you really want to change things, it seems to me that with six parliamentarians little will be able to change, and, above all, if you do not have any willingness to reach an agreement with the two groups that we make up the majority in this House. In any case, what this Government cannot do, of course, is to get involved in managing, intervening with companies and telling them what they should or should not do, because that is interventionism, and it is not in the heart of this Government to make such a mistake. What the Government can do is to accompany companies, allocate economic resources to help them, implement programmes that are already in place and new ones to strengthen those areas, make available infrastructure, platforms, human resources, that is, to collaborate. What you cannot do is tell them what they should do, what they should not do and, of course, intervene or direct their business policies. And, in fact, the SPRI is no chiringuito. I believe it is a fundamental tool for economic development, for industrial development, for the productive fabric in this country. And, specifically, the Basque Trade & Investment is an à la carte service, to promote exports, the internationalization of the company and to promote, as I said, the economic, human resources, of infrastructures that our companies require to be competitive abroad. And look, what do you want me to say, I don't know if you've bothered to know, to know, what the role is, what the programs are, what resources both the SPRI and the Basque Trade & Investment offer Basque companies, but, of course, it seems to me that it's nothing but negligible. You have said that the economic resources allocated by the Department of Economic Development to this issue, as well as others, are not negligible, but, of course, the result that these resources can yield, of course, the Government will monitor it. But, of course, it is also in the hands of companies to be effective in internationalisation, in the search for new niches of the market and in competitiveness abroad. In any case, in case you did not know, this office, of course, offers multiple services and multiple support in several areas and in several issues. For example, in the orientation to internationalization, in strategic and operational consulting services; in the area of procurement by identifying suppliers, making commercial reports, applying external logistics and offering it to our companies in the search for distributors, commercial agents; in the application of new marketing and sales techniques, in human resources, in institutional support to reach agreements also with other institutions beyond our borders, in collaborations, in the identification of business partners, in the search for allies, partners, companies; in agendas with potential partners, in value chain governance, in institutional support to reach agreements with other institutions, in the programme of visits to relevant bodies, in sectoral services, in international promotion and promotion of market opportunities, in subcontracting exchanges, in sector-based business opportunities that are now being implemented, in the future, in the form of higher costs and in the form of social support to them, in digitisation, in the programme of visits to relevant bodies, in the form of local services, in the form of international promotion, in the form of a time-based commercialization of contracts, in the form of a better positioning of services, in the form of contracts, in the form of contracts, in the form of contracts, in the form of contracts, in the form of contracts, in the form of contracts of contracts of contracts, in the form of contracts, in the form of contracts with the form of contracts with the form of contracts with the form of contracts, in the form of contracts of contracts with the form of contracts of contracts with the form of contracts with the form of contracts with the form of contracts with the form of contracts of contracts of contracts, Financial advisory service. Gauzatu programme, which we have also debated here in some debate in this House, we have analysed in depth, with lines of credit without financial cost to Basque companies. Anyway, as far as competitive intelligence is concerned... Finally, in many areas, in the area of cooperation, I do not think that there are any opportunities left for Euskadi, because the situation we are experiencing is, of course, a tremendously complicated one. And the government's spirit, of course, is to take advantage of the talent we have in Euskadi and also of the talent we have abroad. But you have given me the impression in your speech, Mrs Larrea, that you have trivialised quite a bit, not only the work of this government, but also the economic resources, programmes and all the infrastructure that this coalition government makes available to Basque companies. It seems to me that before we bring initiatives to this House, we must analyse them profusely. And regardless of the data you can put us on the table, I would appreciate it if you would not banalize these programmes in your speeches, and, of course, perhaps you should compare them with the programmes, with the aid, with the policies of internationalization of companies that make available to companies in the different territories of the State the governments that you lead. Then, perhaps, you would realize that in Euskadi we are not just the vanguard, but that, of course, everything that is in our hands puts it at the service of our companies so that Euskadi continues to have a name and, of course, continues to have a position on the international market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u41	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. The word is yours, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u42	Thank you, ma'am. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good morning to all of you. Larrea andrea, "A to the third will beat her." Eskerrik asko. According to the report in 2020, in Euscal Autonomia Er memberal exports have been down 18,5%. That is to say, goods and services, which the euscal companies sell and provide abroad, compared to the details of 2019, have decreased into 18,000%. The amount of these exports up to November 19,221,10 million euros, which have been 8,1% of state exports. The importations, corporations, families, or services which the public administration buys in another country, and which hire them, have been reduced from 2019 to 22.60%. Until November 2020 their host was 14407,80 million euros, 5,7% of the state. Commerceal Balance (res exportations) has had a positive number of 4.813.20 million euros; that is, superabbita; Given the same period of 2019, that brake was 3% bigger. Looking at this data, we can say that the euscal exporters have lost the market and have to make a lot of effort to recover that market stock. I'm sure they'll be friends with him for a while. "Bausque Trade & Investment Society" BTI is an agency of the Basque Government, which is born with the aim of gaining flexibility and agility to give better service to Basque companies. This agency provides an à la carte service to promote the export and internationalization of the company, promote activities aimed at positioning itself in strategic markets and facilitate technical assistance in commercial and productive deployments, as well as support for projects financed by multilateral agencies. Its main lines of work are seven: the first, providing guidance in internationalization; the second, supporting the processes of internationalization and expansion of markets; the third, assisting in external deployments; the fourth, financing lines for internationalization; the fifth, competitive intelligence; the sixth, cooperation, and the seventh, talent. And this is materialized through various programmes, programmes that we are sure can and must improve, and we therefore propose in our amendment that we continue to work with the sector to bring these programmes into line with the needs of our companies. I'm going to explain some programs that can deal with the other legal proposal today. Some of them have been mentioned, but I'm going to dig it up. First thing, dig deep. Para promoción de la venta exterior, dentro de la línea de laboro de memplación de meccas. It's a program that's directed to small and average companies with corporate connections or production facilities in the community. They're unresponsible subsidies that want to penetrate and devert them in foreign trades, and they're used for highly international promotion expense. The goal is to help you get past the state of weakness in these markets, converting them into competitive companies. Bigarrena, Gauzatu. The objective of this programme is the external implementation, strengthening and strengthening the international activity of Basque companies and their profitability, supporting them with initiatives of productive investment in external destinations, that is, to promote the creation and development of the establishment of Basque companies abroad. This programme is intended for micro-enterprises and SMEs located or with productive facilities in our Autonomous Community, and is also open to large companies with minimum support limits. These are lines of credit without financial cost. Third, within the line of competitive intelligence work program, we find the Pilotu program, for SMEs, micro-enterprises and large companies that want to participate in the design and development of pilot projects for public investment, investment that aims to evaluate the desirability of carrying out a project of public investment abroad and produce tangible benefits, in addition to promoting sustainable development throughout the process of internationalization. It consists of lost in-depth aid. Y el activo más importante de nuestras emposas es el capital human, just a second, de nuestra enmida. Our international corporations need professionals in external trades, which enables us to find different viscous programs inside the masterpiece of talent. I will briefly explain one of those Beint scholarships. It's a program that educations 100 professionals a year. He is addressed to the young men of the university who govern the English. The program has three different phases, and it takes 23 months. The first stage lasts three months, and the training is in the theoretical specialization, 100 percent of which is supported by money. The second stage, practical training in organizations that give public support to international training, and it takes place in other regional and sector development institutions. It's about 12 months' duration, and it's funding 16,836,000 euros. And the third phase, eight months of professional practice in international business, 11,224,000 euros in cash. And why all these helps? To make our international companies more competitive in foreign markets. The competition determines the success or failure of the companies. A company, in order to continue in any contest, must overcome its rivals, and therefore it is absolutely necessary to create and develop a tolerable contest. If they're competitive, they'll be profitable, they'll have a solution, they'll become permanent, they'll succeed, they'll increase their business volume, which, as a direct result, will cause them not to destroy jobs or to create new ones. If our companies are competitive, they will be profitable, viable, they will be solvent and sustainable, they will succeed, their turnover will increase, and all of this will lead, as a direct result, to no jobs being destroyed and/or new jobs created. Hence we propose, first, that our support of the Government is to help the eroscal companies to settle themselves in the international markets, to help them to be competitive, and this, as a direct conclusion, will produce a work, a worthy and quality work of medium or length. And in conclusion, considering that this enterprise was registered on October 16th, and that it is now February 4th, and a first-class topic for your party, I would like to ask you, since the affair has been involved, why you have not introduced a single correction in this business. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Mists? He mustn't speak. We represent the Podemos-IU team together. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u44	Okay. Mrs Larrea, after reading the GNP presented by your group, the truth is that it is difficult to position yourself in favour or against. In any case, from our group we are going to make a general assessment of the policy of internationalisation of companies that we believe should be implemented in this country, and, well, then I will make certain considerations regarding the text presented. First of all, from our group we believe that these interventions that you propose should be designed on the basis of a diagnosis of the existing productive fabric, of the characteristics and conditions of the value chain in which it is inserted, of the international markets under which these companies work and of which are potentially the markets in which they could insert their production. In other words, giving financial amounts of subsidies to companies for having less than 250 workers, in general terms, seems to us not to be a very good policy. On the other hand, the adequacy of the various public policy instruments for the productive fabric should be assessed. That is, if they are going to generate more jobs, if the sectors in which this type of subsidy is going to be applied are going to encourage them to generate a stronger productive fabric in the territory... I insist, I believe, that a subsidy policy in which money is given simply and simply to have less than 250 workers, we believe it is a rather poor initiative. We believe that the combination of these two elements should be synthesized into strategic planning. We believe that both the subsidies and the entire industrial and economic policy of this country must be focused on strategic plans and not on generalist subsidies, as I said. From Elkarrekin Podemos-IU we believe that subsidies, moreover, are not the only tool. We believe that perhaps it would have been opportune to address some of the others that we consider to be more appropriate, although, well, it is not directly within the competence of the Basque Government, but there are synergies and links with the relevant department, is there not? That is basically the development of local development agencies and all the projects they put in place to encourage the improvement of the local productive fabric of our country, always guaranteeing jobs. You, in the justification of the GNP, give some data, intended to demonstrate the importance of exports in this country. It is true that the Basque economy has a level of exports above the state average, but we all know that in this country, when we talk about internationalization – a word repeated to satiety on many occasions by the Basque Government – little or nothing has to do with support for medium-sized and small enterprises. Yes, it is true, obviously – as has been verbalised here – that there are lines of support for medium-sized enterprises and SMEs, but we believe that the centre of action of the Basque Government is not strictly to improve this productive fabric, but to help companies that are much larger than companies with less than 250 workers. In this respect, Mrs Larrea, we can agree when you say in your GNP that it is not a question of subsidising large companies, which have the most strength, it is a question of encouraging companies with less than 250 workers. Basically, from what I have commented to you before, because the current strategy of internationalization of the Basque Government has little or nothing to do with the laborious and successful work that, for example, the local development agencies do – as I said before –. We believe that an internationalization that is bidirectionally understood, that is, that promotes both the capture of external markets by Basque companies and the attraction to the territory of foreign capital, transnational corporations, investment funds, etc., is not adequate. We believe that a whole mosaic of policies is enabled that from the diversity of formats operates under the same logic, that is to meet the needs of companies and investment funds above any other consideration. This generates take-off stage scenarios for outward exit logics and red carpets for investment attraction; on the other hand, low-efficiency policies. The nations that are having the most commercial success, such as South Korea or Japan, do so not on the basis of attracting foreign capital, but on the development of their own technologies. The characterization of the Basque Autonomous Community as an open economy – a concept contained in the strategic documents of the Basque Government such as the Business Internalization Plan 2017-2020, of the Basque Government – operates in this context as a kind of self-fulfilment promise, ensuring a deepening of regulated deregulation, which serves at last to strengthen the position of local and foreign capitals in our territory. Thus, from an autonomous point of view, it is emphasized that this bid for bidirectional business internationalization has no alternative, that is, there is no model of economic governance that does not go through a fratricidal competition between territories to attract foreign capital or gain positions in foreign markets. In the foral sphere it is the Diputación de Bizkaia that embraces this imaginary more openly and enthusiastically, placing itself at the forefront with regard to the enabling of policies of red carpet to foreign capital. A policy consisting of knowledge of the capacities of the local business fabric, with incentives to be established and, in turn, the favourable public-private competitive environment with which the territory is based. A policy that virtually does not establish significant regulatory conditions in the opposite direction for social majority, strategic sectors, quality of employment, rooting, job generation, etc. In this context, specific public policy mechanisms, complementary to each other, are highlighted in order to promote both the strengthening of business capacities and the generation of competitive environments or ecosystems. One of the most recurrent tools for strengthening business capacity is taxation. This is one of the main ways of converting the territory into an attractive destination for foreign investment, which thus enjoys increasingly favourable tax conditions. This is a path whose inertia naturally leads to the conversion of the territory into a de facto tax haven, as has already happened in several countries of the European Union, if it does not meet some limit that avoids it. A bet that is fully embedded in an economic governance model that promotes the transnationalization of the Basque productive economic fabric, precisely at a time when the COVID pandemic has brought to light the weakness of global value chains, internationalization as an unquestionable mantra and the need to relocate economic circuits. A bet that on its industrial side is having clear impacts, accentuating the industrial crisis that drags already for decades throughout Euskadi; exacerbating the increasing loss of decision-making centers rooted in the territory (Gamesa, Euskaltel, etc.); consolidating the trend to outsourcing as industrial employment falls and the attraction of major international events that contribute to the tourism of our municipalities; allowing the landing of transnational giants not committed to the environment in which they operate and responsible for the accelerated precariousness of the working conditions at the global level, as exemplifies the installation of the Amazon plant in Oiartzun; ultimately diminishing the capacities of public-community intervention in strategic sectors of the economy. In short, Mrs Larrea, we cannot support her initiative basically because we believe that she is a generalist, that she does not pose the need to generate strategic plans that articulate own and autonomous production centres in Euskadi, but that they follow the logic of internationalisation, at the expense of the loss of decision-making centres in Euskadi, which is basically where industrial policy is focusing at the moment of the Basque Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u45	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u46	Good morning, everyone. On our side, at least, when I held the subject, and began to read it, it surprised me, and I was interested in it because it seemed to me that it was important, that it had matter, that is, that our little business has something to do with it, isn't it? But as far as I was advancing to the truth, and as the words went one after another, a swollen balloon, which took an interest, has been emptied to me, and has reached the end of a moment in the heart of the average, i.e., a globe without wind, i.e. a vacuum. And I insist that our exports are extremely important to us, the positive balance between imports and exports in an industrial economy, is important because they are a tool for creating wealth, and in that sense the subject is important, and even more important if we are talking about small and micropymics, isn't it? Import and export are the result of the specialization of labor; some produce things, others. We can't all do everything, and from that exchange, imports and exports are made, right? And our products are industrial products, which we export, and they have an added value. They have an added value, which is important; it is not the same for the exportation of machine-remint, or the exportation of tomatoes, for the one and the other are very different from the wealth they produce. And this is nothing new, that is, at the time of colonization, that Europe brought first materials to her metropoliss, often steal them, to those countries where they exploited them, to carry back the manufactured produce? And in that balance there were some who won and the others lost. In the history of import and export, all this has been a matter of indifference to the history of power, and it is still so at present. But we have a positive balance in ours, and according to the facts I have seen, we exported them more than 25,000 million in 2019, and in that sense we had a positive balance above 5.200 million. And what has been said, so far as we export the products that are valid, brings us this wealth, and furnishs us with those products which are added to value, at the same time, the opportunity to estimate the conditions of the labourers? After all, our economy, in so far as it has a strong industry, enables us to have a strong economy, which makes it a tractor work in order to encourage the third sector or the sector of services. So it is essential for us to have a hundred of them industries, an important, muscular trade in the Basque Country. This is indispensable, and we have often said the risks that are exposed to the tragedy, because we have goods without adding any value to this contraridization, which leads to a prelude, which brings misery along with it. So the subject is important because the subject is going to the end of the economy, and for us the exports have something to say about the importance of industrial economics. And so, inevitably, in order to strengthen the exports, we think there must be much more to do than what this other law proposes, does it not? After all, it is necessary that our workers should be invested in formation, that our students, our future citizens, and those of our present age, should be qualified to respond in technical or even in language, as well as in changing situations. The formation is therefore indispensable, and it is essential to invest in research and development, so that all of our production games and what we export may be of use. And in that sense, to feed those networks, would I like to talk about developments from here, wouldn't I? And development agencies are indispensable in a country like ours, for instance in the gym, where in the provinces and the micropyms are references to them and instruments for their support, aren't they? And I'd like to take advantage of it to say that the development agencies have been forgotten for a long time and would need more protection from the Basque Mitch. We need to reinforce the outside offices because, after all, this economic diplomacy is indispensable and we need to push, satisfaction, these offices to help us. And here I would like to express the evil that marca Spisña makes to us, the Basque Country, the economics of Euscal. Why? Well, it's easy because it's often seen outside of Spain as "sol y playa, jamoncito y olé," which is harmful. We have always observed from a democratic point of view that this people has a full right to determine the future of itself, but even from a financial point of view, Spain is now the last, a weight, a burden; and this also produces exports. Marca Spalha doesn't help the euscal industry at all. And we also need to have products to be distributed because we can't fall into that situation, with all our exports or a large portion of it in a specific product or sector, right? And in this sense, a few months ago, we proposed the power of talking about carning here, or the future of it, because it is plain that an industry founded on fossil fuels has counted its days, and that, so far as it changes the paradigm of motion, we must speak here to guide the future of this very important industry, agree, and propose the means. In fine, this other law has been reduced to a short account, as we believe, that it was not sufficient to say assistance for yearly contracts, or to give us very little reasons for it. We believe that to help small corporations export multifal and multidimensional solutions are to be offered, multiples, because you can offer our companies an aid to send out, but they have to do a lot of family work first. Our hundred of our companies and the micropyms, most of them are a small portion of a production chain, they don't have the product finished, they don't sell anything outside, many times-that is to say, it's a bit of the production chain. They answer to the diary, and often have neither time nor personal time to examine the markets. Often, managers and workers are working together in the office, washing and working on Saturday mornings. They have no possibility of planning this view, all those precedents necessary at the time of exportation. And for this purpose, we must encourage alliances between companies. There are many stages of development in this work, and many departments of development are employed in creating alliances between companies. Many commercial missions in the region were performed in its time, and we should continue to do so. All these little companies need a custom plan to step into the foreign trades and support them. The champagne is essential, the schedules must be prepared for them, and they must go with them until they've become cars, because if they don't, they'll have to, for instance, at a basketball game, time-locks, like a child who gets them out of the public center. They take a child out of the public and say: "You will get a reward if you take it from half-past one." But that little boy doesn't get to the basket either. That kid's gonna have to go to bed, and he'll have to show it to him before he gets in the next way. He'll be here to have the opportunity to export the time and put the ball in the middle of the line. So it's a serious subject, and we think we have to keep it. We think if you're gonna hold on to this thing, you're gonna have to start that discussion on a new industrial plan. We'll be there. We'll be there because we think we need a strong industrial sector, a strong, muscular sector that exports it. Because we've seen what dislocations and foreign capital manufactures are worth. And what we need is a hundred hundred of the economy that will be rooted up in the society of Esscal, which will be able to be exported, but which will be connected with this people, and we are prepared for it. That's why we'll be here today, despite the importance of the matter, because we don't think it supports the heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u47	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. We'll take the answers turn. Mrs. Larre is the representative of the Basque Group Popular-Ciudadans.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u48	I am glad to have brought this GNP to this Parliament, because I see that there is a need to talk about internationalisation, about the competitiveness of companies... I've pointed out a number of things. I have never trivialized the programs we have at the moment. In fact, I said that the programmes are more than EUR 19 million, plus the money that is invested in Basque Trade and all this. I didn't banalize. I just wanted to bring this issue here, so that we can understand that there is a discomfort on the part of many companies that want to be competitive in international markets and that are experiencing difficulties. I'm going to start at the end, because I've heard the Spanish brand wears off. Well, look, sir, don't waste, don't waste. They are his prejudices, because the brand Spain is not tearing us apart. We, as Basques, have our name on the international market. In the international market they know who is Basque, they know which company is Basque and we have our reputation. And Spain has its own. Don't beat us up. It's your prejudices. Spain is not alone, how is it?, beach, sun and wine... Well, no. Speaking of public development companies, look, I was surprised that on December 22 the public company Basque Trade e Investimento do Brasil was created, I suppose to explore the market in Brazil. But I do not believe – and indeed these are political positions – that we have to create public companies to see what the market is in other countries. I think that's the work of the companies. They already know perfectly well what the markets are, because I'm not talking about..., well, there are already programs for new companies, but companies that are years old, that have been set up for many years, that have been internationalizing their products for many years, are well aware that they have a competitiveness problem. Right now, in times of crisis, they have a problem with product prices. So, of course, I don't think it's that much... and, besides, it's a divergence of political opinions, and I think we should talk to the sector and ask them what they need, more than what we think they have to do. I have been accused of wanting to intervene in companies, of telling entrepreneurs what to do. Nothing further from reality! I don't think I, nor we, our group, are suspected of wanting to get into public companies and tell them what to do. Quite the opposite. However, it is important that we are not complacent with what we are already doing. If I've said it from the beginning! We're doing things, much more than they do elsewhere. However, the results obtained are not what we should obtain. Therefore, he invited a reflection to know what can be done to improve. Because I don't settle for us to keep going up. The balance between exports and imports has been discussed. Of course we... that the balance is positive, but we have to be better! It is simply a need for continuous improvement, a need to get the best out of us. I know that Basques, Basque companies can give much more. They just need, I don't know, a little push, and I don't know how far, following the same line as what's being done right now... I have also cited the Beint programme, which subsidizes young people with a high level of English, for internationalisation in other companies, but I think there is one more point missing that we are not addressing and that is a great demand from the sector and companies. And, really, I never meant to offend or trivialize. No, no, I simply wanted to get the debate out, I wanted us to realize that there is a lot to talk about. And, really, then, when... If there is time to bring this issue back and analyze it further, to know what the needs are, to talk to the sector and to bring forward something that is better for everyone, for everyone, I say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u50	Thank you, ma'am. I, Mrs Larrea, thank you very much for your good intentions and for your good speeches, but in this case I think you have contributed absolutely nothing to the debate, rather than criticising for criticising and pointing out that, in some way, you were unaware of many of the issues, many of the programmes and policies that this Government is doing on internationalisation. In any case, what I would like to do is to somehow put new policies on the table in the next few initiatives, come up with proposals to discuss them and try to improve them, if possible, beyond the futile analysis that you have carried out. To Mr. Soto. Well, it is also very good that we know your opinion, your assessment of the internalization policies of this Government. But, look, I am particularly curious to know what yours are. I would like to know, I would like you to come here to make concrete proposals, to also take initiatives on this issue in order to improve them. And I do not know whether you share the active policies on this issue carried out by the Government of Spain to which you belong and which also cooperates with the Basque Government and on many issues also go hand in hand with that Government, or whether you have an opinion of your own, diverging from your colleagues in the Government of Spain, which would also be interesting to know. If you go in line with those policies or, in some way, here you have a free speech, which moves away from what is usually the collaboration between institutions on this issue. If you consider the policies that this Government is doing to be better, for what it was saying to you, bring your own, we will have an opportunity to discuss them and value them. To Mr. Iriarte. Anyway, we've had a double ration of prejudice. Anyway, I think the analysis you've done has been of thick stroke, not the following: sun and smell, that sun and smell that you so much like to come to when you have vacation and here you are dedicated to criticizing, but then, in August, you lose your ass, with forgiveness, for going to the South to enjoy your vacation period. Well, that sun and smell is the same as you brought here. You said the brand Spain is a ballast. Anyway, as a ballast, unfortunately, we know a lot about Euskadi. They do not tarnish the marks, but they tarnish the attitudes, tarnish the no by the no, tarnish the behaviors, tarnish sectarianism. Whenever you want, we can talk about all the damage we've had in Euskadi in this matter for almost 40 years. We can talk whenever you want. But, anyway, as I was saying, we know more than enough about ballasts. In any case, I invite you to make proposals to try to improve policies. I call on you, in some way, if you see room for improvement in the programmes, in the aid, in the questions relating to this issue which the People's Party has brought us here today, to do so, to debate them openly, but to debate them seriously, without applying prejudice, without trying to ridicule and, of course, with a serious criterion to try to continue to help our companies and not to try to harm brands which, in this case, are engaged in their policies by trying to help companies, not only those of the Spanish brand, but also those of the Basque brand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u51	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. The word is yours, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u52	I ended my first word with Madame Larre because I understood that we had a first theme here to discuss, why, if it is so nice, you have not introduced anything about it in the priorities. You didn't answer me, but, well, I've checked those corrections and there's not a single proposition of yours to improve these programs. I'm sorry, maybe I'm wrong, because you've explained afterwards that it was only for discussion, to discuss what could be done or not about nationality. I thought our duty was to encourage the Government in the legislature and to do it. But still, to calm you, to calm down, I'll tell you that the government is working. We all know reborn, don't we? Political and institutional commitment to this government, a program to promote Eukadical economy and employment. The answer proposed by Eucharistic institutions to the crisis that COVID-19 has caused to work and economy. The economic recovery programme in Berpiztu consists of six policies and 27 lines of action. The fourth of these policies is to encourage industry and SMEs, advanced services, creative industries and internationalization. This policy has a budget investment of EUR 1,164 million, which will be developed in three lines of action. The first, industrial development, Basque Industry 4.0. The second is a reduction in the financial cost of loans to companies. And the third, Business Internationalization Plan 2025, with 107 million euros, where it proposes: one, strengthening services to support internationalization; consolidation of the Basque Country brand; third, pilot projects for public investment abroad; fourth, development and recruitment of talent; and fifth, fostering international mergers and acquisitions. And I'm going further, and as far as the performance of the 2021 year's performance is concerned, the head of Tapia, the budget of his department, we were both here, Mrs. Larrea, you and I, and Mr. Soto, as appears on the 13th page of PowerPoint, we've explained to you, that 23.15547 euros will be directed to internationalization: 10,9 million international activities, and 10,7 million to philial finances. And besides, he also told us about the apps for the phone calls in 2021, the apps for small and average companies, and who's going to be in their budgets. program a las ayudas interncioles para pymes: Internacional, 5 million; expand, 3, 200,000; Becas Internationalcionion, 5 million; Global Training, 6.20,000; merge, 900,000; pilot, 4000,000. That's all the department director introduced us here, when he came in to accounting for Presence. That's the commitment to support the corporations that have a share in the nation. And we demand the eubertist and the Sociists of Eukalia to continue their work with them in accordance with their wants. And therefore I have heard Podemos las palabras a toadyo a las emris, pequeñas y medianas emassis, EH Collectri, Formation, and help; and PP-Ciudadnis, mejoror. That's the correction we've made. And I'll read to you: "In co-worker, working on international help programs to strengthen competitiveness in foreign markets." And the second point: "To help the company exporters train women and men who are so well trained in foreign trades." That's what we groups of government are demanding from the government. And we'd like to see the introductions of the initiative and regret, but also those groups you haven't made any corrections to protect our correction. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Together, Podemos-IU. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u54	With regard to the original GNP, I do not have much more to say apart from what was mentioned in my first speech, because, well, it is not that the proposer has enriched the proposal much more in her turn. So, in that sense, I must say that we cannot make the proposal our own. On what are our criteria in relation to the policy of internationalisation of companies. Well, first of all, I would like to say that it seems to us a mistake to pretend that, on the basis of certain specific projects, we believe that we justify the overall economic development policy of the Basque Government. It is true that there are certain economic items in the budget linked to the development and promotion of the internationalization of enterprises, but in general calculations, addressing the overall strategy of the Basque Government in relation to the internationalization of enterprises, what we see is a permanent relocation of enterprises, at least with regard to production. And that has been a constant in recent times, permanent news in the newspapers. What the Basque Government is doing is attracting foreign capital, which implies, on more than one occasion, the loss of decision-making centres in the territory. When it is said that we do not want or do not want to intervene in companies, we believe that this is an error of approach, but I will explain to you why: in many of the aid proposed by the Basque Government which has to be conditional, is that not intervention? And that is an approach that we have defended on more than one occasion. That when a company receives an economic interest from the Basque Government, either through direct subsidy lines or through guarantees, they are conditioned on the maintenance of employment, on the maintenance of production in the territory... In short, the decision-making centre should be kept in the territory. If that is not a concrete approach, you will tell me what yours is. Because yours does not know what it is, beyond joining the policies that the PNV decides to do in this area, in this country, for decades. And in relation to what unites us or in what unites us our policies in relation to the Spanish coalition government. Well, it unites us with the coalition government agreement, which sometimes is so hard for you to fulfill. That's it. That is the only thing that unites us in relation to the coalition government agreement: the program agreed by you and us. I insist, the one that is so difficult for them sometimes to fulfill. On the other hand, we also consider, in relation to the internationalization of companies, that, as I said before, the countries that most encourage and promote internationalization and have the most capacity in it are those that promote the development of decision-making centres in the territory itself: South Korea and Japan. And that is linked to innovation and development. But leading it from the sector, leading it from the public sector. Not with the permanent retahíla that the Basque Government practices, which is public-private collaboration, always leading this initiative the private sector. And so, in addition, I was verbalised by the adviser in that committee that you mentioned: that the public sector cannot and should not lead the development of innovation in this country, but that it must necessarily be the private sector that marks the initiative. I hope that is not the model of the Socialist Party. Of course, I believe that, on the basis of the general budgets of the State, it is not that of the Government of Spain. There are also capital-sharing formulas for companies at risk. It is true that it is not a model that the Basque Government likes very much, that of introducing public capital into private companies that are in difficulty. That is also our model; I hope it is also that of the Socialist Party, but I am beginning to doubt it. And, of course, on the basis of what I am saying, we can hardly support the amendment to the whole proposed by the parties that support the Government because, I reiterate, we do not agree with the overall framework of action of the Department of Economic Development in terms of both internationalization policy and many other aspects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u55	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Meet EH Team Representative, Mr. Iriart. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u56	Well, what should I say? Look, I'll give you an example of my district from Toulouse. 28 townships, 19 townships below 1,000, over 700 companies, 64 micropyms (down of 10 workers), industrial centre at 53. That's the picture of our region. When you're with the company, you talk about export, and they say, "Wait, wait, for tomorrow's work." Our region is industrial, but that goal of export is very far away from many small companies. Why? Because it's 64% micropyms and they work in that other network for another company, a lot to the High. He created his own high mark,hill Valley, and the reason for it is quite clear: He has a powerful manufacturing agent, he has some very powerful industry, and they demanded his own brand, and they proclaimed it to work better throughout the world. We all know what these companies are. So we have to work. And while we're talking about micropym, when we're talking about export, what the micropyms need is a huge protection. And I went on again to my brain: They're development agencies. The development agency had financed over SPR a few years ago to promote their company's wine. They don't have it today, they don't have it. The budget of the townships is now the principal means of funding, and then the diputations. One time, you know, they were the ones that were promoting them and helping them. And for a lot of companies, for average corporations, to be exported, they can hire external parasites or other contrivances to plan, organize, and complete this operation, but not small enterprises. And who's next to them? They've got an agency in development beside them. The node for them is often a development agency. These instruments, then, are indispensable; we have these instruments. These tools were created in the '90s to face the vast unemployment rate of those days. We have tools to encourage, we must strengthen them. And in a region like ours... and all the regions are like ours in the Gipulia, for instance: small regions, regions with a large company, which are industrial companies. In order to promote these, we are indispensable to strengthen development agencies. Therefore, in our opinion, it is a deep dispute, it is important, it is necessary, but we believe that this other law of the present day does not conform to them, either to the one or to the other's corrections. That's why we're going to abstain from each other. And of course we make proposals, and we are prepared to promote this hundred industrial industry, and we put the focus here, at least in this strengthening of development. So please don't take a phrase out of the context and give it a lesson. We're working. We're working. And I'll organize my vacation, Mr. Adezza. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u57	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. Now that we have finished our discussion, we will vote with the original text of the other proposal as the Euscala Populara-Ciudadans has represented. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting were 43; 75; the supporters of 6; the contrary, 44; the abscesssions, 25; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u58	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and of the Eunciators. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 0; abstainments, 33; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u59	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "Another proposal as a parlamentary team," "success to the Spanish Government of Esquire" "to let the Military Units of the Emergency Forces participate in the search of Joaquín Beltran's remains. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Ms Martín, representative of the Mist, has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u60	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to thank the People-Citizens Group for the agreement we have reached in our compromise amendment. Having said that, since Vox I want to publicly express my condolences to the families and friends of Joaquín Beltrán and Alberto Sololuze, the two workers who died a year ago under tons of waste in the landfill of Zaldibar. I can't imagine how much they suffered during the long months that passed until they located Alberto's remains. I don't want to imagine what the woman, her children, the whole family and Joaquin's loved ones still feel like. One year after that fatal event, the remains of Joaquín, a worker at the Zaldibar landfill, are still buried. From Vox we have to denounce, out of solidarity with the families, for the defense of the workers and for the failure to comply with the Law on the Prevention of Labour Risks, that the Basque Government has not done its job well. From the very first moment it became clear that the task was going to be extremely complicated, that the challenge was enormous, that the emergencies were maximal, and from the first moment it became evident that Mr Urkullu's Government was not going to take all the necessary measures. On 6 February 2020, the Central Government offered the Basque Government the participation of the Emergency Military Unit, UME, to deal with the tasks of dismantling and rescuing, and its aid was rejected. According to your words, Mr Urkullu, because, in your opinion, the key was not to add resources. If they weren't going to add to their efforts, why do you think the UME were going to come? It would be good if I explained it to Alberto and Joaquín's families. Mr Urkullu, for different reasons, you should have accepted the participation of the EMU, because they are professionals prepared with resources and experience. The Military Unity has a great recognition throughout the national territory, in everything, and that includes Euskadi. That is the UME, Mr Urkullu, an emergency unit prepared to help all Spaniards, including the Basques. And I ask him: why did he insist that they did not come to add up? Because they're a Spanish Army unit? We already know the position of the Basque Government above all that sounds Spanish, so sad and so simple. They put their nationalist desires above their workers, their families and their despair. It is indecent to abandon two Basques buried in the garbage for almost a year for nationalist anxieties. But since Vox we want to put on the table the number of times that your government has rejected the aid of the EMU, because this has not been the only time. They rejected their support in the first months of the pandemic, when the military contributed to the disinfection of senior residences. Do you remember? He left them without support at the most critical time, when the COVID was eating with our elders, who, I repeat, was the weakest sector in the pandemic. His Government, Mr. Urkullu, despite not having enough troops in those tragic weeks, decided that the army's presence in Euskadi was only a witness. We all know that the Basque Government rejects the help of the Spanish armed forces on an ideological and nationalist issue. For you, the fact that the armed forces are Spanish is far more important than your knowledge, your equipment, your disposition, your experience and your good doing in tasks such as those raised here. You go hand in hand with Bildu and weigh his ideology more than the security of the Basques. Since Vox, we're sure that this will kill you, but it does. They think we'd like to express the opposite. Remember those heavy snows of 2016? Of all the people trapped, what worried them, and what they highlighted in the media, was the rescue of some ETA express. These undesirables, after an act in Navarre, were blocked by snow on a secondary road. The Foral Police did not consider this rescue a priority, so ETA Express called the Civil Guard. Curious this fact, isn't it? Hatred is forgotten when you feel in danger. Those who in the past would have attacked without doubt against the agents of the Civil Guard received them almost with honors. Necessity tightens and forgets even the sickest hatred. And that's exactly what must prevail. In the face of a real emergency you have to count on those who know more, speak Basque or not speak it, whether from here or from there, Spanish, Basque, Romanian, whatever. From Vox we condemn his tremendous irresponsibility because he has jeopardized an operation as delicate and necessary as the rescue of the mortal remains of Joaquín Beltrán and, in his day as well, those of Alberto Sololuze, for such a pilgrim reason that the UME does not come to sum up. If you are capable of this, tell the Basques clearly that ideology is above security. To this day, the search for the remains of Joaquín Beltrán continues. When Alberto Sololuze's people were found, the Basque executive hurried to announce that his partner's search was near. And since that 16th of August, six months have passed, half a year of enormous frustration for his relatives. What do you think of search management? Is there nothing new to bring? Nothing to improve on? In fact, if this Government could now celebrate the success of its management with the finding of the remains of the two buried persons, this proposal would not make sense, but, unfortunately, that is not the reality, but the opposite. And that's something no one can deny. That is why we now insist on the need for the Basque Government to ask for help from those who can lend it, even for humanitarian reasons only, to bring some peace to those who have been waiting for 12 months. There is the UME, professional military, experts in interventions in situations like this. A unit that defines itself as one of the tools of State action, with an unequivocal spirit of complementing the emergency services of other administrations, mainly the Autonomous Communities and Cities. Emphasize our Armed Forces, Mr. Urkullu, do not deny them because they are a unit of the Army, because they are the Spanish Army. I am concluding, not without celebrating the convergence of approach with the People-Citizens Group, which has enabled us to agree on a compromise amendment to insist on the need for the use of the services of the EMU now and for any emergency. As has been repeatedly demonstrated, to the surprise of our own strangers, we are the only political forces that we defend in this House the nation to which we belong and its institutions. This is not the case with the Socialist Party, the faithful Squire of the PNV when such decisions are made. Citizenship must be played at the same game here and in the rest of Spain. I imagine Mrs Robles turning wherever she is when she knows that the Basque Government, of which you are a part, rejects the help of any army unit in the Basque Country, knowing that it is to reinforce a nationalist profile that should not be hers. You, Mr Urkullu, do not want to talk about the management of industrial waste dumps by the Basque Government, about your clear lack of knowledge of the characterization of the waste that had been deposited in Zaldibar for years, about your responsibility for what happened, about the consequences of your interventions since the disaster occurred and about your non-existent relationship with that family, which today, a year later, continues to wait for the remains of your loved ones to be able to say goodbye, to start its own resurgence after months of uncertainty and pain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u61	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing the corrections, representative of the popular-Ciudadans, Euskal Group. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u62	Thank you, President. We here today want to acknowledge the invaluable work of the EMU. We believe that this unity, because of its importance, is vitally important throughout Spain. We have one of the best military emergency units in the world. And as Basques, we have the right to ask for your help in an emergency. Moreover, during the first confinement we applauded this unit when it came to carrying out, for example, the disinfection work of the train stations. Because when there are insufficient resources to deal with an emergency, we have a moral obligation to protect and safeguard our citizens from using the EMU. The EMU is not a political weapon to call them at their will, at the will of some political parties, or not to call them at the will of others. Politics must stay out of all this. We're talking about emergencies. And emergencies are emergencies, regardless of the color of the government that governs us. Emergencies don't understand colors, and the UME doesn't come here to place any flags. He's coming to save lives, ladies and gentlemen. So they should stop so much – and I'm going to say it, even if it doesn't fit into my vocabulary – nonsense. Because thinking about the needs of citizens at a time of emergency is vital. We believe that the EMU must come as often as necessary to help in an emergency. Moreover, speaking of the PNL that you present here today, you speak of the need to call the UME to rescue the body of Joaquín Beltrán, and, look, in your day we ask that in the first days it was necessary for the UME to come to rescue these two workers because, I don't know, we may have the doubt that, if the UME had intervened, or if it had helped, or had come, perhaps they would have – I know – been rescued alive. Or not, huh? Or not. I'm sure you don't, I'm telling you, but there's still some doubt. There's no doubt about it. I mean, if you haven't used all the weapons you had in your power, you may be left with the doubt. Not to me, okay, but their families suffer. And they're still suffering, and they're going to suffer their whole lives. Let's make a sensible use of the EMU for emergencies. We have reached an agreement with the proponents. And I'm gonna read you the transaction, okay? We want the Basque Parliament to urge "the Basque Government to request from the Government of Spain, in all those emergency situations in which it is necessary, the intervention of the Military Emergency Unit, ensuring that in this way Basque citizens have the same means in these situations as the rest of the Spanish citizens, as in the case of the disaster at the Zaldibar landfill". We must be sure that this Government will put all the means in place to deal with us in an emergency. Indeed, no Basque citizen can have the doubt that what was done was not done and all the means were used to rescue any life, to help in an emergency. At the heart of this whole debate are people's lives. And I really can't imagine anyone from Bildu or PNV rejecting the help of the UME at a time of life or death. Because the troops of the EMU will come to rescue us, to protect us, regardless of the color of our ideas. Let's get this straight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Basque Socialists. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u64	[[Microphone Off spoke]] ...or is about to be fulfilled. Well, just to say hello to the lehendakari, the vicelehendakari. I wanted to start, now that one year of Zaldibar's accident is about to come, I would like to start my speech by joining the numerous demonstrations of support for the family, both by Joaquín Beltrán and by Alberto Sololuze. Demonstrations that have been held by the various parliamentary groups on the numerous occasions when this issue has been discussed here. Our pain, which accompanies that of the family, the desire and the desire for the body to be found as soon as possible, is the common denominator of all that we make up this Parliament. On the subject, it is true that it draws my attention, especially coming from the Joint Group, so fond sometimes of recommending readings of stories to others, the fact that in this matter the question of history, of the historical context of the EMU, has been so out of the question. Because the UME has history, and it's worth telling. This story is also important. For example, they have forgotten to say that the EMU was created in 2005, at the impulse of the Socialist Group. The UME was created by the socialist government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. For example, he has forgotten to say that the Emergency Military Unit was created with the vote against the right. For example, he has forgotten to say that while the right was voting against, as I said, he had the abstention of the Basque Nationalist Party. As you see, therefore, the EMU has its history and, fortunately, it also has its future. Indeed, the Military Emergency Unit – created, I insist, by a socialist government – has proved to be of vital importance throughout these last three chandeliers. The Basque Socialists can only express our pride and appreciation for the work they have been doing since their creation. Its work in floods, forest fires, or more recently in the management of the health crisis, or the management of the severe snows that we have suffered just a month ago, is a great proof of its professionalism and commitment to our country. But let us continue to delve into the matter. I have looked and looked into the proposal and also into the speeches I have listened to carefully. Just as I have missed, I have missed, some kind of reference to the historical framework, to the historical context, which would have allowed us to better understand how, why and why that unit was created, I have also missed some kind of reference to the competitive framework. Because once again you have been forgotten to say that emergency management and civil protection is the responsibility of the Autonomous Communities. So it is up to the Basque Government to manage emergency situations, however complex and serious they may be. And, indeed, that is what the Basque Government has done since the zero minute, leading and coordinating emergency work. It is his competence and he has devoted himself to it. Look, Mrs Martínez, before you start talking here about tyrios and trojans, it is always convenient to study matter with some depth. Before presenting extemporaneous proposals that are totally inadequate to the reality of the situation, it is essential to know the characteristics of a slide as complex as the one that occurred in Zaldibar. We need to know that we are talking about a slide of almost a million cubic meters of waste. A truly complex challenge faced by a multidisciplinary team, composed of the best experts in civil works, geotechnics, gases, water, in a large number of disciplines. The instability of the slide, the gas fires, the leachates, the control of landslides, the need to deposit in some safe area the waste extracted, to ensure the safety and health of the people who are working there, are numerous problems that they have had to face and still face today, with a priority objective shared by each and every one of them and of them: to rescue the body of Joaquín Beltrán as soon as possible, but as surely as possible. Let us therefore try not to disrespect all those who are working on one of the most difficult missions that they are likely to face in their professional lives. The rhythm does not mark the number of hands concentrated in the rescue work. The rhythms in the advance of Joaquín Beltrán's search would be nothing different from the current ones because there was a lot of presence in Zaldibar of the Military Emergency Unit. Unfortunately, nothing can make us go faster. Every new challenge that arises needs a calm analysis and planning that does not put the people who are working there at risk, but does not put the environmental safety and health of the nearby resident population at risk. And so it is, indeed, as it is being done, guaranteeing and strengthening every step that is being taken, without taking any unnecessary new risks. And we socialists are completely convinced – that, I assure you – that in the thought and motivation of each and every one of the people who are working there, the main priority is to find Joaquin and give him the rest that he and his family deserve. Let them work, let us not distract their efforts with barren and absolutely unnecessary political noise. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u65	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Passing on the answering shift, Misto has the word. Yes, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u66	Mr Alonso, I have spoken in our GNP about the Basque Government and its responsibility in the case of Zaldibar. If you want, another day we make a PNL of the whole history of the UME and we discuss it. There's no problem with me. In addition, I remind you that Vox did not vote against the UME, in case he did not know. Making history to what you said, it comes to the same thread. It is true that the Basque Government has jurisdiction, but it is not its competence to refuse aid. I think that in this case I should have resorted to them. Having said that, the proof that things can be done much better than they have been done is evident; a year later the remains of Joaquín Beltran remain buried somewhere in the landfill. I think that's the case, and no one can deny it. Those dramatic results, what do they show? They clearly show that what has been done from the Basque Government is frankly better. I think you'll agree on that, too. And not only do I remind you of a statement from Beltran's brother that was collected a few days ago in a digital medium. It is so strong that it says: "We are very disenchanted with the Basque Government. I think there are ways and ways to do things better than how they are doing it." He adds: "The search efforts have been a disaster. It's all been weird. I think a lot of things are being covered up." I'm not saying it, I've pointed out to him that the one who says it is the brother. Moreover, I am sure that you yourselves, who defend the management carried out by this Executive, know that things could have been done differently and much better. I cannot even think that they are satisfied with their performance, with the results of their management. I'm sure you didn't, did you? In these hard months we are living, the government parties and some of the opposition have shown that they are more concerned about self-government than the management of the health crisis, for example. First of all, face the problems of Basque, from Euskadi. When they go wrong, the excuse is easy, the excuse is that the problem and the fault are from Madrid. If they don't do it better, it's because of Spain's limitations. We are seeing and suffering now with the vaccination campaign: balloons out and toast to the sun. Basque management, which is the best possible management. But reality is quite different. The UME has – I repeat – top-level professionals and technology, as you very well know, sure that, in addition, very useful in this type of situations, safe. It is her responsibility not to have resorted to her before, and only hers. And we trust that, sooner than later, we will know about other responsibilities, some of them criminal, in the management of the landfill, in the public environmental surveillance services, in the management that the Basque Government has made of this type of debris and this dramatic event. And I end with the sincere desire that you locate as soon as possible the remains of Joaquin Beltran so that his family –I repeat – can say goodbye to him, so that they can face their particular mourning. Do you deserve to intensify your efforts to do so? I'm sure you do, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u67	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The Basque Popular-Ciudados must not speak. Mr. Alonso mustn't speak. End of discussion, we'll vote for the middle-direction signed by the Mists and the Basque Groups of populars. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters 7; the contrary, 67; abstaining, 0; white, 0; 0; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u68	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Number of points in theme list: "Phum up the other bill of parliamentary gatherings, concerning the procedure of choosing the directors of the EIB, and of choosing new commissions. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Aguirre, representing the EHG team, has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u69	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. It is said to explain what a good journal is when there are two people arguing about it, whether it is rain or not, that the journalist is not enough to give one and the other a voice, and the good reporter must go out to the window to see whether it is raining or not. And having brought him to a practical example (for instance, when there is trouble between workers and the police), it is not enough to receive a workman that he has broken his nose, and on the other hand that there has been no charge, and that they have only answered the violent attacks of the workmen. To make good journalism, you have to go out to the window and publish all the images that exist and show what's happened. That's a good journalism, not a good one. But there's still no more journalism than that. Let us say that there is a great dispute between pandemy and confectioning to the working-place in the middle of a confession. Patronals say yes and workers don't. And then a public television set makes the voice sound to the only side, the patriot, to give it. And not to give it away, but rather to be part of an unusual format, and to be included in a pandemy or confination, the representative of one of the patricians, which is exactly what makes it most conformable to the rules of the government of the moment, carries it straight to the interviews as the first news of the Nikolais, with the presence given by it, or with the entity, and above all with all the minutes that it gives it, at the most hour when the audience is to defend itself in its position. But that television doesn't give voice to the other side, the workers' representatives, that is, not a single union is present. To see whether the coming out of the window is rain or not, that is to say, nothing. The two examples are recent, recent ones from the Basque Television. And we can ask: What's the matter with ETV? A person could make a mistake. That's possible. Let us say, that in the organs of authority the person at the lowest stations, the chief, proposes to give this treatment to the news. But is there no more leaks? We can ask. Did the editor agree too? Even the editor? Also the news director, okay? Director of ETV? What does the Director of EIB say to that? What's going on in ETV for that kind of thing? One more example. ETB's time for political parties and the organizations, for example. The last facts, the November cases, say that the Basque institutions were given four hours and 35 minutes in the ETV November. The political parties, on the other hand, are an hour and 53 minutes, but within which even the parties in the government are involved, at precisely 29 minutes. So those in charge in November had five hours and four minutes on the news, and all the rest of the party had an hour and 24 minutes. And there are other questions: How do we decide to divide this time and this space in this way? And what quality has space to some and others? Does it apply the same treatment to some and to others? And why is it always news, for example, to put an example into a karicatura, the head of the Arzie Tapias is nothing personal, but,utana, everything you do? Why is it always news? Even sick of COVID, send word from home. And who decides that and why? How is that possible? Why does ETB offer the same thing as the ETB (the gate of the government) publishes? In the usual way? It's not normal. Even if it has become part of our screen culture, it's not normal. Why is the public television television as a government television set? To answer this question, we must look at EIB's belly, that is to say, the government, in whose hands the authority lies; in whose hands it is in, and in what manner it is obtained. And I will confine myself to daily news. In order to access the editor, you have to go through a study for the workbag, and get the square, get the auditions. That is to say, with a few guarantees of choice and objective and transparent calms. In the EIB check, that's where the professional career begins, and it's over in the same day. On the same day that the square begins and ends professional career. Start and finish at the same time. From that point on, there is no clear and objective process to reach the scope of responsibility or special employment. From that point on, the attentions are divided by fingers, and in some cases between people who are not of the planilla by the back door. And by what criteria is this done? We don't know, they're not public and transparent, although from this legislature, this is what the EIB Manager has been asked to do. There's something the main director here said. He said, "The best people in the editor, the one who's prepared says no when he's offered such an air of responsibility." It must be explained that these offers are not public and extensive, but are always in disorder, according to personal confidence. And this, what he said, is really a tremendo, a serious symptom of what takes place in EIB. And why do they say no? We can ask. Is it because they know what slavery it is? I mean, is that it means that it's a government slave? You don't know, because you know that sometimes political standards will win? Is it not because they know that they must submit more than once, and that they are not ready for it? And when they say yes, will it not be because they are innate sometimes? Or do they say "yes" to those who have no difficulty in submitting to the government, or rather to those who will do it by taste? And this also brings with it another perversion: If the best of the two are rejected, as the Director said, who says yes? Not the best. This is, in short, what takes place in ETV, and what the course of the history of the ETV information can be explained. In fact, EITB has a problem with which no guarantee system can be dependent on the government in order to be independent. The problem, however, is not only of EIB's, but it is not so particular a case as EITB, that it may be said that EIB is very medical. EIB's standard is like the model of public televisions in the Mediterranean (that is to say, Spain, France, Italy). It is a highly refined communication, in the manner in which its organs are named. The anglosaxian pattern (such as BBC) is different. Even if the director is named by the government, the rest of the posts are based on the mercury. And the public media in the North of Germany and Europe are much more prominent, and social agents have much more room to govern. "EIB, therefore, has a place to look at when he is at the crossroads, whether he is again alive or dead." When we collect the Basque People, we believe that it requires a new model, that which is not dependent on the Government, that EIB must have a new model of government, which will be much more prominent, in order that it may be more independent, so that it may not be the slaves of the Government at the moment. And I want to insist on the last thing. Someone might say that today's proposal is to kill the government party. But no, no, because sooner than later, we'll be the ones in the Basque Country. And we will defend the same thing, because we believe that the public peace of Basques ought to be in the service of the people, and not in the interests of a party at the moment. That's what we want and what we want to defend now and then. And therefore we have proposed this other legal proposition, because we believe it to be a security for the independence of EIB, and consequently for the quality of public service, to choose the several departments by a public process. To do this we believe that it is an indispensable condition for candidates to have experience in the field of hearing, and of course to rule the two languages which are official in our country. And in the same way, we propose to guarantee a professional career in newsroll posts to reconnaissance other proposals approved by this congress. That's what we're asking for today. We agree on the spelling of the popular teams, the leading director must be elected by public competition. We have expressed it, too, more than once. We agree with that. But as far as the Administration Council is concerned, we believe that what the Popular party proposes is alien. The Council of Administration today, I don't know, the Pulitzer Provest, the highest expert hearing, I don't know, placed in the field of the world's media, with the consent of everybody, and all the news of EIB and all the other programming, would continue to be exactly the same, because the Court of EIB is merely a consulative organist, because it has no jurisdiction, except in the budget, and this, without any other rights, is the only one that has any other hand, but it has no opportunity to rescregise it in the process of making any proposition. In our opinion, this is a pattern now overrated, and if we want to restore EITB, it is not enough to change the manner in which we choose the members of the Council of Administration. In this scheme, we must make it above this model of government, if we want another form of communication. In our opinion, this legislature must be a right to control the public communication, as long as we are representatives of the people, but we believe that there must also be other institutions for external control, in order to prevent the communication of the public remedy. This proposal today is a step on that road. Not the last one, of course, but one step. The principal director has already been named without any guarantee of his independence and most votes received in the history of EIB. For the moment, the new Director of EITB has appointed only one new office, a judge of strategy, who has no public or transparency. As far as we know, he wants to make all the other nominations for March, the new director. We think this is an opportunity of gold to do things differently, by consent, by generous consent, by the best, to govern EIB. To offer a real public communication-service, independent, well-balanced, well-balanced, public media that will be in the service of the people. Let's let the EIB bird fly free so that no one can cut his wings. And as soon as I'm done, I want to welcome the sign language interpreters. I don't know much about signs, but, well, I'll tell them. [[Used Sign Language]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Passing over the teams that were running the corrections, representing the Basque Popular Group-Ciudados. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, members of the government. Well, the EH Bildu group, through Mrs Agirre, brings us a non-legislative proposal on how to choose or propose an alternative system for the election or appointment of the members of the Board of Directors, in this case, of the public body EITB, right? On the history of this GNP, which I have been following, as you, of course, first introduced one to see how the director was elected, then withdrew, because, of course, there had already been an appointment. Then another was proposed for the design of the public competition, and finally a third is presented for also the positions of designation and others, and of responsibility. I mean, well, it was seen to be a subject of particular concern to the proposer. To me, the truth is that I am also very concerned about the system of selecting public offices, particularly the public body. And, well, what happens here seems to be that the Government took the lead and also accelerated the deadlines and made the appointments. The amendment, the GNP, the non-legislative proposal, read in abstract, read in the text that arises, we can understand that it can go in the right direction, in the sense that the selection of staff is sought through an open procedure, through a public competition. And I would add, because the GNP is a bit skewed, which is why we have developed it in our amendment much more, light and stenographers to the whole system. On this issue, the truth is that what needs to be considered a little bit is the situation in which we are and, above all, what public television, what public entity we want. What public entity do we want? What's the point of having a public television? Because this question, perhaps you have to ask it. We are in favour of a calm debate, with time and, above all, to deepen the model of public broadcasting that we want. It is true that we are now debating this point for parliamentary times, but we must put it. No one in this Chamber would probably think of it as a sensible thing to pay with public money for a newspaper, for example; instead, a public broadcaster seems to be, seems to be. Why? What's the reason? Well, that is one thing that I believe in this House too. We understand that, whatever the system is at last, what must be made clear is that a public television and a public media financed by public money, I again insist, and above all, on the substance of which the members end up appointing the dominant group and, in this case, the Government, therefore, has to have a triple task – this is basically chosen, as has also been mentioned in the BBC Charter. Three things: reporting independently, supporting people's learning in addition to life-long – as is now said – and then contributing to people's being able to form a critical opinion. To this end, the question of pluralism is very important. That would, in essence, be the model that we will no doubt develop later, through some other initiative, of what we believe should be public television. What is happening is that, of course, under all this there is also an important political issue, which cannot be overlooked. Let's see, seeing the programming also of the public television radio, man, I have already said here, in this Chamber, once, a bit representing the situation: it seems that we have gone from "telebatzoki" to "telerrhic". We do not want a "telebatzoki" or a "telerrico" or a "telePP-Citizens" or a "telenate", what we want is a television and public-funded media that are independent, independent. And here I can agree that for this it is necessary that the system of designation, above all, of the dome that governs, both of the director and of the members of the council, be done with a number of criteria. The proposer is right that, with the current legislation and with the current regulation, the issue of the ETB Board of Directors, it is true that it has little competence, beyond – as she has commented – the budget and some issue of proposal. But it is also true that we go further, and we also propose to change many things, and among them – we will be saying it through successive initiatives – we, what we are proposing is a radical change in what public television would be like. Because it must not be forgotten that it is always a temptation for any group of power. And here, this has to be said clearly. In the ETB, what has happened is that there is a war buried between supporters of one bench and supporters of the other bench. And in this concrete political battle, it is true that there is a bench that has been advanced to them. They have not been advanced in the government staff, in the administration staff, because there still the front bench controls – hence these initiatives tending a little more to control this type of designations – but, man, seeing the programs and seeing, above all, certain issues, nobody escapes feeling – I think there is a clear bias – in favour of what defends a certain ideology. Come on, you don't have to be a genius to see it, anyone sees it. And that's why the ETB, I understand it's a battlefield on which the North Bank, as it is often said, and the South Bank, in fact, are quite confronted. And the confrontation, moreover, will go on as time passes, while we spend a lot of money on one of the most expensive public televisions that exist and while we are financing with public money certain political projects of one or the other. I, therefore, believe that public television, what must be done is to allow the various workers, selected according to public criteria, but well selected, because in a parliamentary question that we asked the previous director confirmed that the number of regulations that had to be made was abnormally high, with those people who did not go through a system of an OPE in its entirety, were recruitments, etc., which then had to be consolidated. Well, that's also a question that obviously needs to be reviewed and it's a very important issue – I insist again – that fits or has to do with what the final model is. By simplifying the terms – then, in the turn of reply I will go a little further – we, the proposal we make in the amendment is to go beyond what the proposer does. We – I tell you – on the subject of ETB, analyzing the text that you have presented, we want to go much further. That is why we are going to abstain, in the text that you have presented, we are going to abstain. We believe that a modification of the ETB is necessary, but we do ask what the model is; at least the form of appointment of senior officials. What is the system we defend? Well, look, the system we defend is a system in which there is all the time light and tachographs, that ends with the fingers, that there are a number of candidates who present themselves with their resumes and with their professional prestige, because, if there is something that really matters to people, it is our name, it is our own professional prestige. You said, "It's just that your proposal is not going to change anything, it's going to follow everything the same." Man, I think that, if people are appointed who have a reputation and a career path, and, above all, if there is transparency throughout the decision-making process, they will be careful to make it clear what their position is in many respects. Because that's the way to manage the public, that's the Anglo-Saxon background system you mentioned earlier. It's a tremendously transparent, tremendously open system. By the way, the television funding system is very different from what we also have here. We essentially propose a public tender for all the posts, in this case both of the Directorate-General and of the members of the Council, and, above all, that there should be a final vote, because in the end Parliament must also intervene, we understand, but with a very broad majority, two-thirds of Parliament. And that is the system that I understand has to be the right one for the selection of the top positions of a public television radio, because at the bottom of the issue, what is here – and with this I will finish my first intervention – let's not forget, it is objectively that the proposal that you have made, which has made the proposing group, has to do with the system of choice, of appointment of those responsible for the entity, but, man, for those of us in this House – and everyone knows it – what is behind is a struggle of power to see a little ideological bias, if it goes one way or if it ends up going the other way, which, by the way, I don't know if you can complain a lot, because in the last report that the Director General has sent us, the time devoted to leaders, etc., of the EH Bildu group, seems to me that the percentage is very, very high, very high, the highest in relation to the rest of groups. But, finally, that too, I think it gives us a measure of what is also the bias of the people who work there; that does not mean that people do not have ideology, but when it comes to expressing news, driving information, etc., so I think that..., the three points I have said before: you have to report objectively, also generate opinion – for that, pluralism is necessary – and contribute to learning. In the next intervention I will delve into some of these ideas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u72	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Myst. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u73	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Lehendakari. We're back with the hot potato today, EITB. At times, debates on the nature of public television are questionable. Basque public television has been constantly criticized by the various parliamentary groups. It seems that no one seems to like it: some because they control it and the unions hinder it; others because they want to control even more, and the minority in this Parliament because we believe that they are partyists. What is Basque public television? When reading all the documentation about the entity and its nature, we draw a concrete conclusion: the principles of functioning of EITB are not complied with. On the contrary, it has become a kind of tool of political propaganda at the service of the two major parties of the region: Bildu and PNV. This is the case, and we all know it. The debate, therefore, so that it ceases to be sterile because of the repetitiveness of it – it seems that one can talk a thousand times about EITB and only one about Spain and its Constitution – I will focus it on the issue of the legitimacy of a democracy when two groups have such a tool of dissemination and propaganda at their service. The theories of democracy – something that have repeatedly reminded us of Felix Ovejero or Aurelio Arteta – have to safeguard a certain balance in the ability to spread their ideas. There is a need to ensure a certain balance between political groupings, even if this idea is clearly impossible to achieve in a strict sense. On this principle are born many of the existing public televisions throughout this world. But we cannot fall into naivety: what is born with a concrete objective (information and political plurality, balance) becomes a dangerous fight when politicians start to manage. In this sense we have programmes such as those of Mrs Hurtado or the series whose name I do not want to remember, where a certain vision of the world is promoted vis-à-vis others. The public channel, gentlemen, cannot be the Sixth, nor Telecinco. It has to be devoted to other kinds of issues, issues that do not so blatantly notice who are the good ones and who are the bad ones according to you. So, at least, we understood neutrality and they explained it to me at the UPV when I studied Journalism. The reality, in conclusion, is that nationalism enjoys 150 million a year from all Basques, even my own, to tell us what is right and what is wrong. The Basque is good and everything else is bad. They have succeeded in corrupting our democracy, for we do not all play with the same cards. Vox's proposal is clear: politicians of one colour or another, take their interested hands off our television, because, moreover, you say that it is ours, that it is of all Basques. He will be grateful to ETB and will gain it, in addition, our democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u74	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Crossing the line of uncorrected teams together represent the Podemos-IU team, Mr. Angulo. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u75	Yeah. This is a recurring debate in this House, and when, over the years, the initiative on the reform of the entity, on the method of electing the Director General, as well as on the organization chart forming the Directorate-General of EITB, is on the table over and over again, it can only be understood as a bad practice and an attempt to control EITB from the political point of view. The past legislature, and over the years from various parliamentary groups, has never been a consensus for the comprehensive reform of the body. The 10th Legislature, in its plenary session of 7 April 2015, approved the creation of a special commission to lay the foundations for the reform of EITB, a commission that in practice had no effect. He stayed in drunk water. In the next attempt, in Legislature XI, on April 12, 2017, the creation of a paper for the comprehensive reform of the entity was re-approved based on a proposal by Elkarrekin Podemos, which we called for the reform of the Law of Creation of EITB – it is worth remembering this –. We then heard in this House that a presentation was needed to address the reform of this type we were proposing. It is a point that, by the way, it did not even start from the previous work, but started from scratch, as if the work of the previous legislatures had dissipated in the parliamentary limbo. In the work of the paper numerous valuable testimonies were gathered, as well as sociological work that came to point out what is being debated here today: that this reform is a broad demand. On that occasion, as approved in the proposed law, in its point number three, which gave rise to the presentation, they did appear from the UPV to explain the methodology, the work and the conclusions they had made. These conclusions stated that the priority improvements to be made by public broadcasting were, in relation to governance, as the paper said: "It is considered appropriate to change the system of choice of the Directorate-General and the EITB Board of Directors towards a model in which professional and/or independent civil society actors are better represented". And in the field work carried out for this study, the current EITB election system, by an absolute majority of the Basque Parliament, only looks good or very good at 41% of the Basque population, although just over 1 out of 3 EITB workers, 35%, do not agree with this election system. The most striking part of this survey, of this work, is that almost 25% of EITB workers refused to answer the question about which system of choice of management of the entity they wanted. Now that, thanks to the work of the university and within the framework of the presentation of the previous legislature we have already identified the problem, it should be more or less simple to decide on a plural, transparent and participatory formula that will allow us to undertake the reform in a short time. And I would like to underline the "short term of time" in the light of the precedents I mentioned earlier: a paper, a special committee, two legislatures and a tangible result. Well, what's the point of listening, collecting the assessments of experts and workers if then those who are in the EITB government do not have the will to change it? Today, the first of the three priority improvements proposed in the previous document has already been made: the change in the corporate structure, and our group, before and now, believes that it is important to continue to make progress in the restructuring of the entity, both in the organizational chart of the Directorate and in the control tasks, which would be the next point to change. Today, the media are strategic. In just a few years we have moved from posters-filled walls to Twitter and Facebook walls, which put and remove governments. The influence of the media in society is increasing. We spend more and more time on our mobile screens. Therefore, if a few years ago the debate on the election of the director was important, it is now vital. It is essential that the institutions provide citizens with clear tools to guarantee objectivity, transparency and plurality in the direction of the communication group. And I am very sorry to say this: the current quota system for the appointment of the EITB Directorate's organizational chart cannot be considered an independent means, free from political interference. It is not a fair system: it merely duplicates the parliamentary balance in the Directorate, and this does not guarantee the independence of the Board of Directors, since the person chosen by the Basque Government to be Director General is the one who arbitrarily and without any explanation or justification chooses the responsible team. From Elkarrekin We can make it clear, and so we said in the appearances three years ago: we want a more equal and less interventionist organizational model, we believe that at least 50% of the positions must be women and that the election of the Board of Directors must be transparent and participatory, because only from these premises will we get a plural and inclusive television. We will therefore support the initiative that Bildu has brought to the debate today. We do this because we have come to agree on the essentials of it: it is urgent to face a change of model. It was four years ago and it is also today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u76	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Galástegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u77	Counselors, ladies and gentlemen, egun on guztioi. Good. In fact, at the end of the tenth parliamentary term, and also during the past, a very important political consensus was reached on the need for a comprehensive reform of our audiovisual public service by all parliamentary groups. Reaching that consensus was not simple, and that is why I think we should consider it as a value in itself. A value, ladies and gentlemen, which, in the view of the Socialist Group, must be the basis for the completion of this reform, which, in parallel with the great evolution and transformation that has been taking place in the audiovisual sector, allows us to adopt a management model that responds to the new challenges, which also allows us to adopt a system of governance which, in terms of transparency, professionalism, efficiency and control, responds to the demands of the twenty-first century, and which allows us to give a model that responds optimally to the principles of plurality and neutrality. And a model in which the recently completed corporate integration of the workforce, its regulation, guaranteeing both horizontal and vertical career and the continuous training of all EITB workers, is adapted. And so, all this is contained in our conclusions, that we contribute to the presentation that has been talked about. Today EH Bildu is proposing an initiative to "avoid subordination to the government of the members of the EITB executive board, the heads of news and editorial management, the editors and editors, and the heads of section". This is, in short, the objective of this proposal, which has the form of GNP, but which is a kind of dead-end road to tell us that we need to change what we already know and have agreed that we need to change. And, actually, that's to change the selection and designation of those professionals who have some responsibility. And the truth is that we also do not know very well what method of choice we are proposing, because in purity this initiative, Mrs Agirre, is going to forgive me, but it seems to be done as with clumsiness, as with apathy, as with filling, I do not know, to start a session does not seem to me to have enough entity. Because you also know, Mrs Agirre, you know as well as I do that the procedure for changing or modifying the method is not by means of a non-law proposal, which will not even have the slightest consensus. And also, because, as you rightly say, for important reforms, for structural reforms, for entity reforms, we need the consensus of all parliamentary groups – I insist, I do not say, eh? You say that in an article recently published in a communication group – and then you need to change the law. His initiative spoke of a public procedure without further concrete action and transparent processes based on equal opportunities. Listen, then, all right, great. This seems perfect to us, but the only thing clear, the only thing that, in our opinion, is transparent in this non-law proposal is distrust. Me, what I'm saying is that you guys are suspicious. And, look, the truth is, I think it's perfect, you can be suspicious. One can choose to trust or distrust even as a vital position, as a position before life. I prefer to trust, but, well, you can distrust the government – in fact, you do, and distrust is free. I don't think they should, but we're gonna leave it there. But of all this, what I am most surprised about – and more so from you, who is a houseworker – is that distrust that leads you to think that all the chiefs and chiefs of news, that the chiefs and chiefs of editors, that the editors and chiefs of section are not reliable professionals and are all or all subordinated to the government or very close to being so. I think here, what matters is that we can and should work much more in positive, and more when we are talking about information professionals and editorial line as well. And we must agree because it is also obvious that there is an editorial line, which is marked by the founding law, by the law of creation, which establishes what principles should guide professionals. Some like principles more; we like them all the more, but the principles are those that are: objectivity, separation between information and opinion, respect for political pluralism, protection of coexistence, respect for the rights recognized by the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy, promotion of Basque culture and language and some more important such as commitment to human rights and recognition, respect and care for victims. And those principles, Mrs Agirre, we know them, we all know those principles. There is, therefore, no need to raise suspicions as to whether EITB professionals do not know them or whether in their daily work they will sacrifice those principles for others to act subordinate to the Government. This cannot be considered in this way, in our view. I believe that there should be no doubt about the staff, about people who have assumed a very important responsibility, most of the time, without more reward than a lot of work. And that you know, so I think it's much more appropriate to go more carefully, a little more serious, a little more respectful. It may not be his intention, but that is so. And, indeed, it is our responsibility to talk and discuss what is the most appropriate method of choice for the EITB management team, but we must respect the rules. We have to do it where it plays, we have to do it as it should and not through this GNP, which is going to forgive me, Mrs Agirre, with all due respect, and I appreciate it, but this is a road, this is a journey nowhere. We must also defend a fair professional career, attractive to professionals, which allows us to get the best out of the people who work in the EITB, and it does not have to be remembered because, among other things, we have done so on many occasions, on many occasions, and uniquely also in one of the GNPs that was unanimously approved, to which his initiative refers, in particular in 2019. And then there's another thing I want to remind you of: we've already done this job. They know it because all these issues have been dealt with and discussed in that EITB reform paper that everyone is talking about, and in which – before it was launched after that turning point that took place in June 2016, where Parliament, together with other experts, assumes the full shared conviction of the need to address comprehensive reform – we, the Basque Socialists, were already advocating for a more participatory system and a real career. As far as the management team is concerned, it must be remembered that today we have a director general who has been elected according to the rule, he has been elected by a majority, which is the necessary majority, which is the party to which I have the honour to represent in this initiative, which is the Basque Socialist Party, and the Basque Nationalist Party. That you don't like it? Well, that's all there is. It will have to be seen, because, in fact, we have already proposed modifications that generate greater quorums for the election, but that will change. But you don't like anything, you don't like either that or you don't like who has been appointed director of EITB; director of EITB that, by the way, has to be subordinated in your work and in the election, but, above all, in your work, to that editorial line that I was talking about before. We have already said in this rostrum that we have given Mr Aldekoa a confidence and that we hope that this appointment will open a new stage, a new important stage because we have an agreement behind which we can agree..., I don't know if at all, but we will have contact points. And we want this gentleman at that stage to have – at least for this hard work he has – a time of tranquility to achieve the objectives we pursue, which I believe are the same for all: a modern ITBE, adapted to the demands of citizens, that recovers the character of public service, that is objective, competitive, efficient, that has in its objectives to meet the socio-linguistic reality, that respects the principle of equality and that it is the engine of the Basque audiovisual industry; and, above all, that it is permanently accountable to Basque citizens. It seems reasonable to us that the Director General wants to form a team of his confidence. Don't you? Wouldn't you do the same? It's reasonable to start with a new project. You need a reliable team, at least in the nearest area. So, what I regret is that we are wasting time on these kinds of initiatives that do not lead anywhere, because I believe it is time to open a new stage in which all the parliamentary groups, together with the Directorate and the entity's own workers, go forward, and together, to give stability to the EITB itself, and to face, above all, with guarantees – I am finishing, President – those challenges that are presented to us, which are very important – you said – and that we cannot go astray from that future to which we aspire with an ETB that is a public service, of quality, of vanguard and the order of Basque citizenship. If you do any kind of initiative on that path, you will surely find us and we will be able to reach agreements. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Eubertarians. Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Congressmans, good morning to all of you. There are multiple challenges in front of the Basque Radio, known as EIB's goal, and the law that regulates light EITB. And in that law, 3. in the article, it is well defined that the principles which are meant by EIB should be common to the senses; truth and partiality, between the acquisition of distinction and opinion, reverence to equality and variety, to favor all interests, to the rights received by respect, to culture, and to the rest. And we have discussed these several times in this legislature. Among them, the other proposal was the same as the Polydemos had brought with them. At first we didn't share the details that were offered in this proposal, but finally we made up our minds to sign an agreement among groups. In the first place, we acknowledged that it was because of the constructive intention of the proposed party, we accepted it gladly, because we thought it necessary to make politics, and even so it was because some groups tried to put us into value. In short, we worked in politics. Today we propose to discuss the law which has been brought to us by the parliamentary organization of the Basque People, which has nothing to do with that which I have just mentioned, and which has nothing to do with the content and still less with the will. It requires, on the one hand, to change the procedure to change the EIB administration team, and at the same time to guarantee a professional career for local employees. Look, first of all, we have to say that EIB has a very big capital, and I don't mean the money, I mean the people, the capital of mankind. On one side of the screen the euscal society, which has been a faithful audience, a faithful listener, who has taken EITB for himself, and has confessed the source of EITB information and entertainment. And on the other side of the screen, the local employees. Without them, it would be impossible to have EITB as well as he is. EIB couldn't resist the leadership of this town today. So the workers need to know that we're aware of it and that we need to be very quiet, because as long as the current board is there, their professional career will be guaranteed. And with regard to the method of choosing EITB's management staff, we believe that there is no need for much more than to turn to article 16 of Law 5/1982 on the Creation of ETB, and that it says the following – I will read it textually –: "It is up to the Director General to appoint the management staff of the public body and its companies with professionalism criteria, giving prior notice of such appointments to the Board of Directors". The system is clear, members are appointed on the basis of professionalism criteria, are appointed by the Director-General and notification to the Management Board is mandatory. Who appoints the Director General? This Parliament. Who elects the members of the Board of Directors? This Parliament. Therefore, we do not say it, says the law itself. What is the basis on which the system is based? Well, this Parliament. And it is done, moreover, taking into account criteria of professionalism. That being the case, we can say that we have a system that guarantees plurality, agreement, representativeness and that also guarantees that all elections are conducted on the basis of criteria of professionalism. A system whose cornerstone is this Parliament, Parliament which reflects the majority will of Basque citizens, freely expressed in the ballot box. In addition, a House in which more than one group, at least two groups, is required to agree with its current distribution. You see, in the last occurrence of this legislature, the principal director made us understand what the main challenge of EIB is in front of him: digitalization, support, organization, and the purpose of each string. And to challenge all these challenges, EITB needs no noise, EIB needs stability. Es impantante la stability para equipo para avanzar, colaborar para mejoror, indus en comjun para conseguir estos objectivos que nos phyjado como país. And it is that, to achieve those goals, we believe that it is in no way beneficial for the entity to be constantly changing those procedures that we have developed and that have proved effective. We cannot be changing on the basis of the political interests of the groups. It would make no sense to do so on the basis of the interests of the majority, but let me point out: it would still be less reasonable to do so on the basis of the party interests of the minority. In any case, the groups in this House have the right to propose any changes they want. I'd miss more! What surprises us..., well, I don't know if surprising is the word; what we don't think is appropriate is the mechanism that has been used in this case: a GNP. And it is that this highlights the group that presents it and, above all, shows what its intention is with it: to generate noise, to draw a scenario full of shadows about one of the most prestigious and important institutions in this country, about EITB. And at the same time, what manages to do is to disrespect a lot of people who, as I said before, constitute the largest of EITB's assets: on the one hand, a mature audience with its own criteria, who trusts EITB to be informed and entertained, a citizen who bets on EITB as its reference chain; and, on the other hand, lacks respect for those working people who give their best to generate quality content and attractive to Basque citizens. That is why our group is going to vote against this initiative, of course. First, because the law already establishes a just system, a system according to the principles of the law, and that we understand it appropriate. And secondly, because we refuse to allow the partisan interests of certain groups in this House to mark the agenda of this Parliament. Begira, Agirre andrea, jarraitzen duzue pentsatzen Legebiltzar honetako konposizioa eta honetan dagoen egoera aurreko legegintzaldian zegoen egoera bera dela. And they continue to oppose everything and persevere in their effort to put sticks on the wheel, and they persist in trying to block, and they remain in the "Worst, Better". And what hurts them is that despite all their efforts, despite all their efforts, this political group and the Government continue to have ideas to move forward, proposals to improve and, above all – and this is what hurts them most – a majority to carry them out. Well, go on, go on with that attitude, because as long as you are lost on the road we will continue to work in the only way we know how to do it: with seriousness and rigour, without falling into effective discourses or opportunistic approaches. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u80	Thank you, Mr. Díez. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u81	Madam President. Mr. Gordillo, I'm sorry that it seemed to you to be short-sighted – I think you said – our GNP, but, as I said to my colleague Rico before, I think that virtue was often in conciseness. I find the other debates that you have raised exciting, and it seems to me that, as you have announced, they are going to make proposals in this direction; we will be discussing them little by little. I feel that they are not voting in favour, because I believe that we are basically in complete agreement. I think our proposal goes beyond what you propose, but, well, it will be another time. Mr. Angulo, thank you for your vote. Mrs. Gallastegui. You said that the Director General was elected with the consensus of this House, but I also tell you that he has also been the director who has had the most votes against in the whole history of EITB. If the agreements reached in this House, which are the ones we mentioned in our GNP, were complied with, it would certainly not make any sense for us to be here today discussing this; but they are not being complied with, and that is one of the reasons why this GNP is being debated today. Because, contrary to what you say, the passage here has not led us anywhere. I'm trying to tell the PNV rep that it's hard for me to understand that resistance. For my own part, I think it absurd that we should be discussing this matter today, I think we ought to discuss, I do not know what particular method of using it here, in this legislature, to carry it forward. But what we see is that what we agreed on can't be carried on. And I don't know why you have this resistance with any transparency in ETV, in order to accept it with objective calms. I don't understand that resistance because he's afraid because if he's the director and the people who are in the other department are the best and best of all, you know, let's make a public contest, so that they can show the ability they have, and they're the best people for those posts. But what we ask of these men to do afterwards, if they will be free when they take those posts, they will be the same people, to have a full right to them, and to have a trial made with all their guarantees. I do not, therefore, know why this resistance, and I do not know what has happened, even from the former legislation, because here the second point is to repeat the points agreed upon by all, and now you deny it. What happened between them? That is to say, that you have this whole majority of people who like to mention so much to you, that this is what has happened since the first legislation? Because I don't see it. And we keep thinking about it here: you say how many changes of laws there must be. In 40 years, there's hardly any change in ETV law. He hasn't changed. Other TVs, some public media media that have been more recent than us, have been adapting them in recent years; EITB has not made a single deep change in his law. I think that the agreement you're saying is still possible. I think it's a golden moment. Well, let the EIB manager execute the decisions that have been made here. I can't speak for ETV professionals, but I'd say they'd appreciate it. This is where 75% of the incest was said that the ETV news favors the government. They are well acquainted with the reality of the ego, and therefore I think they are in need of some alteration. We can't let this opportunity go. I think we should start building EITB from today in the future.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Euscalo Popular-Ciudadnos's representative. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u83	Good. Well, in the last shift this intervention is already – it is noted – near the time of the meal. They left the lehendakari alone. Lehendakari, your Government has left you here alone, in this debate which, man, I believe is of great interest, contrary to what was said. It seems today that it is the day when the groups supporting the government – which is the government itself – oppose the opposition: "Hey, is this amendment that you..., or this GNP, is a waste of time, is that this amendment or this GNP that you are proposing is not quite concrete, is that I don't know what...". Look, it's just that Parliament is for the government's control work. That the initiative that has been presented could be effectively implemented in an articulated text as a means of proposing legislation for the amendment of the legislation of the ETB? Man, then, indeed, but, come on, I think this initiative – because it helps us all to set positions on a very important issue, which is the public body of the ETB – I think it deserves to be analysed by this House. It has also been said that, man, legislation must have stability and such. Man, is that the law of ETB is 1982, that of the world, isn't it?, in Spain. And the last reform, which is precisely that of the director's election, is that of 1996. Jo! I was very young at that time; Mr. Díez too, I think I would be young at that time. I believe that it has been a long time since then and it is appropriate to reflect on what kind of television we want. I will simply summarise my intervention, and what we propose is a public broadcasting that is governed by the criteria of transparency, merit, capacity, professionalism, professionalism in any case, always, both in the workers and in the managers, because that is what gives them independence. We want professionals to lead the ETB, we don't want politicians, because perhaps if the ETB had a director general and a board of directors elected by professional and non-political criteria, we would have saved ourselves in recent months emissions that embarrass many Basques. For example, I recall that the Lehendakari himself here and the Councillor of Culture criticized the broadcast of the program "Euskal Herria y Libertad", which presented Josu Ternera as a fighter for peace. Perhaps, if the ETB had a director general and a council elected by professional and non-political criteria, we would not have to endure the Civil Guard being portrayed as a coup, corrupt, torturer in prime time. Perhaps, if we had a director-general and a council chosen on professional and non-political grounds, we would not have to see how the image and prestige of State institutions is permanently undermined, presenting Spain as a banana democracy, nor would we see how institutions such as the monarchy, the judiciary, the security forces and bodies of the State or national political parties are vilified and despised, as long as we never criticize the political parties with the greatest establishment, especially here, which correspond to the nationalists. Perhaps, if the ETB had a director general and a council elected by professional and non-political criteria, then they would have no series like Altsasu, which we already demanded that it withdraw and that it completely turns to the events that happened in Alsasua, where it turns the aggressors into victims and empathizes and sympathizes with them. In short, I believe that at the bottom of the question, what lies behind it – as the Americans say, the elephant in the room – is that there is a war for the control of the EITB between two nationalist tendencies, and this is an obvious thing; there is a war for the control of the ETB between two nationalist tendencies; that, it must be recognized. In the face of this, what we propose is a model based on merit and capacity, independence of criteria and, above all, the elimination of political sectarianism. Because we must not forget, it is that the ETB is not government, the ETB is not opposition, it is that the ETB we all pay, it is that the ETB is financed with public money, I insist again. That's why our position is that. We have announced that we will abstain from the proposal. I am not going to criticize her so much in those terms, but we will abstain. And then we will vote in favour of ours, which I understand that, if you like it and see that it is very similar to ours, I understand that you will also vote in favour of ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u84	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Mist must not speak. Are the representatives of the Podemos-IU together going to take the word? From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u85	Well, I want to say that the debate that Bildu has brought to the House today is totally legitimate. As long as the problems that we are debating over and over again are not resolved, this debate will have to continue to be brought to the House. And they said that they had already started making the necessary changes to the ETB. I would like to remind you that Elkarrekin We do have proposed legislation on the changes of the ETB Directorate and the reform of the ETB, and it was rejected, that is, there have been alternatives; they were rejected. For the rest, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u86	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Galástegui, the word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u87	Thank you, President. Very briefly. Well, I agree with you in the last sentence you said. I think we have a chance throughout this legislature to work together, huh?, that too, to get the EITB we want and deserve. But I think it is also important what I have commented to you earlier on the need to give stability to the Directorate that has just taken office, which I remind you was in a plenary session about two or three months ago. I think at the end of October. I think the important thing is what we want to do. And we know what we want to do, and I think we can agree with many of the other parliamentary groups. We believe that there is a need for a broader and up-to-date redefinition of what is the mission of the public service itself, paying attention to things that were not provided at the time but are now important, such as, for example, attention to children and adolescents, including commitment to equality between women and men, important things. That's where we're gonna match up. We will also agree on a more professional, more efficient and less politicized governance design. But you have a problem with this politicization thing. You think politicization is what exists in those places where you don't have control of these institutions. And that is not the same as the political control of some institutions and agencies, which we all know is necessary. But, well, that's what we'll talk about some other time. And we also have the opportunity to talk, to draft and to focus on how we want the new contract-programme to be, which must be that commitment approved by Parliament, which will be multiannual and longer than the duration of a parliamentary term, to contribute to the planning and stability of that public service. In short, Mrs Agirre, I believe that you and we and the other parliamentary groups in this forum can agree perfectly on the need to give stability and to want, as I said, an EITB, not only as we want it, but also as we deserve it, at the service of Basque citizenship and guaranteeing all those principles that are not out of fashion but must be increased. And in that sense, I insist that, if we come to this Parliament with initiatives that have taken place, not this type of initiative, which is, in the end, nothing more than a journey anywhere and a desideratum in which I believe that we can all agree, not in the actual text, in the text presented, but in the idea of making an EITB more participatory, you will find us there. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Eubertarians. Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Angulo, you say that you have all the legitimacy to bring this proposal. No one has denied it. In fact, we have recognized it in our own speech. It is so legitimate to present the changes you want as to disagree with them and simply vote against it, reasoning it, arguing it, debating it. It is the same legitimacy that they have and that we have others and others. Mrs. Aguirre, you have discussed, you have given some facts, about time, how long the organizations have appeared at the Telenew an, how long the political parties have appeared, but I think you have forgotten some. You have forgotten many associations, several platforms against projects, and you have forgotten the unions, which are also PNVs, haven't you? I guess you forgot those guys. Gero, baita ere, komentatu duzu loanuen dagoen jendeak eredakzio barruan ez duela nahi batzuetan zuzendaritza-karguetara joan. And I wonder sometimes why that happens. You have given us an argument: that they do not want to be subject to the yoke, something like that you have said. I thought it was an argument a little biased. I have another argument, and that argument is that we all know what is going on in this country, we all know that people who want to take the step in certain institutions to assume certain responsibilities are pointed out, stigmatized, accused of being something they really are not. And that, moreover, is deepened by the contempt to which the institutions, public institutions, EITB, various institutions are subjected. Therefore, if you continue on that path of discrediting EITB, obviously many people of your own writing will not want to take the step because then, when you return to writing, you will have the stigma of having been, to say the least, complicit in power. I have already told you in my first round, the system guarantees plurality because this Parliament is the basis of that system and this Parliament is plural. Another thing is, as you have already been told, that plurality you do not like. It's legitimate that he doesn't like it. Or that, directly, what he doesn't like is that, plurality. But, well, that's already your thing. Anyway, if you don't like this system, you've already said it, the day you have the opportunity and the responsibility to govern you will have the opportunity to change it. And I listen to them and I say, "It's going to be soon," because, according to you, the PNV does everything wrong, everything wrong. But I look back and I say: "Six months ago, before the elections to Parliament, you said that the PNV was doing everything wrong. Two years ago, before the municipal and outlying elections, you said that the PNV was doing everything wrong. Fifteen years ago, twenty years ago, the PNV did everything wrong." But what has happened since then? That the PNV has continued to win the elections and who has had to constantly change, over and over again, the strategy has always been the abertzale left. Eta bukatzeko, esan diguzu oso komunikabide politicizatua of the EITB. Tell the left to talk to him about politicizing something in this country! That is, that people live in this country, that people know us, but that they also know you, and that people know how you act. That people know that the left abertzale has tried to get his hands on everything that he has been able to in this country: in the associations of neighbors, in sports club hobbies, in the parties of the villages... You've tried to politicize everything. So, hey, no lessons, huh? That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u90	Thank you, Mr. Díez. After discussion, we'll vote for the original text of the EHG as a group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 42; the contrary is the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u91	So, the original EH Shade text was not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the whole of the Basque Groups of Populars. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly are 43; the votes are 75; the supporters 7; the contrary, 41; the abstations are 27; the whites are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u92	So it's not accepted. And finally, we vote for Misto's full-range correction. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; the votes are 75; the supporters 7; the opponents are 68; the abstations are 0; white, 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u93	So, let's not accept the full correction of the Misto group. The seventh point on the theme list: "The other proposal, as Céranos' parlamentary team, of the newly advanced medical vital vehicle. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs Garrido, representing the Basque Team Popular-Ciudadanos, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u94	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. President, good morning. Good morning, chief. Partners. We bring back this discussion to the legislature. We discussed this subject in the preceding law, and directed the budgets with exact corrections on this subject, and this year we have introduced the same amendments to the budget, because we think that we have to solve this problem. Firstly, in the initiative we are bringing to the Basque Parliament today, we consider it necessary to resize and analyse the emergency health transport network in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and, if necessary – which the People's Group believes – to reorganise the existing resources and the possibility of increasing them. On the other hand, we believe that it is already necessary in the historical territory to increase the provision of new resources of advanced life support with doctor, which is also called UVI Mobile. In Álava, there are currently two advanced life supports with a doctor for the whole territory: one located, as you all know, in Vitoria Gasteiz, and another in Llodio. However, it has been found that these arrangements are insufficient, taking into account the population and the extent of our territory. In Álava, as I said, there are two medicalized ambulances, one located in Vitoria Gasteiz and the other in Llodio, but that of Llodio, we all know that, because of its proximity to the historical territory of Bizkaia, it mostly carries out its activity in Bizkaia; it can be said that almost 80% of its activity carries out it in this territory. There is, therefore, a medical ambulance in Vitoria for the territory of Álava and, if it is occupied, which is sometimes occupied by inter-hospital displacements, not only between the hospitals of Vitoria but also between hospitals of the different territories, we remain in Vitoria, or in the historical territory of Álava, without availability of a resource of these characteristics. The WHO's own recommendations, as we all know, on the ratio of population to ambulance resources, mark at least one such unit per 100,000 inhabitants, and the Mondragon ambulance, as you also know, rarely comes to Vitoria. One of the arguments that will surely be used by the groups that support the government – especially the Basque Nationalist Party – will be that the ambulance network, the Emergency Health Transport and Ambulance Service, is working on the network, and that the Mondragon ambulance is also at the disposal of the territory. Sometimes he has come, but it is true that he rarely comes to Vitoria. The reality is that the lack of more resources of these characteristics is clearly causing problems and that a Mobile UVI cannot be sent because the one that is actually operational is sometimes not operational, as it is obvious, by the existence of a single unit in this sense. Numerous notices that should mobilize a Mobile UVI do not involve the mobilization, as I said, of such a feature. I will give some recent examples; some are known because they have appeared in the media, or also the collectives working in this field have made them known to us, and therefore, at least I believe that the spokespersons we carry this matter are aware of this matter and of the lack and deficit in this particular matter. The other day we were moved that by a transfer from Txagorritxu to Basurto Vitoria he ran out of Mobile UVI all morning. There are also transfers from Txagorritxu to Santiago of patients who should go or be transferred to a Mobile UVI and cannot do so because they are busy. And there are also assumptions that, as no one escapes, for example, an accident in which there may be several people involved, of a gravity that needs the attention of several Mobile UVIs, if one is sent, because there is only one at that time, because obviously, you almost have to decide which patients the Mobile UVI is put on. We therefore believe that we have been dealing with this shortcoming for a long time and that it is already necessary to address it and that it should be a priority for this Government. As I said, we have understood this in the Budgets, and in that sense we have amended them by introducing specific amendments for the increase of this type of resources, especially in the historical territory of Álava, without prejudice to the fact that it was also necessary in the other territories to increase these devices, not only with doctors, but with any other kind of support. I know there's a signed transaction amendment between EH Bildu and Podemos. We are not going to support it in its entirety, because we do not agree on the last point, but we are going to support the first two points, if we are allowed to vote by points. The first point proposes that the Basque Government should report on the situation and location of advanced life support in order to respond to possible emergencies in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and that, once the conclusions are known, resources should be reorganized. We believe it is in line with our first point, which talked about analysing and resizing – and, if necessary, increasing resources, if necessary – and, therefore, we believe it is in line with the proposal we made at our first point. And the second of them refers to the current lack in Álava and the provision of more advanced medicalized life support resources to respond to existing needs. We will therefore support these two points in the compromise amendment. And the Jeltarian Party and the text introduced by the Socialist Party, I think it's not enough, it's very general. And in that sense, I'll vote against it. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u95	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together represent the Podemos-IU team. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u96	Good. We share Mrs Garrido's concern, because, indeed, there are gaps in the resources available to meet emergency care needs and, in particular, material and human resources in relation to medicalized ambulances. And we also share that in the Arab Historical Territory there is a specific, specific deficiency, with the existence of only two units of advanced life support, with a doctor, two ambulances, which has been proving in time to be insufficient for the population and characteristics of Arab territory. We agree that Araba needs at least another advanced life support, with a doctor. It is also something that workers and trade unions have been demanding for a long time, for a long time, on more than one occasion from the Basque Government, without success, of course, to date. This lack has sometimes had serious consequences, with repercussions that have been highlighted even in the media and that, logically, concern the people, who are aware of the problems that exist and the implications that it entails and can lead to the insufficient allocation of resources in a thing as delicate as emergencies. However, for Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, the problem is not confined only to the need for an increase in ambulances, neither in Araba nor in other territories. The problem, we think, is general in emergencies; it is not even confined exclusively to the emergency health transport network either. We believe that the public emergency model of Euskadi is far from a good model and that it brings serious problems, both in the health transport network and in the coordination centres. Both sides of the system, moreover, have, in our view, an unnecessary degree of privatization that has created a multitude of problems for the operation of the service, for emergency professionals and for the people who need these services. That is why we included, and that was the basis of our amendment, the question of the public or published model, which I understand the People's Party does not share and which is why it has been left out of a possible transaction. We are not talking, moreover, about problems arising with the pandemic, as it seems in some way to be deduced from the amendment of the groups supporting the Government. Obviously, our group is not going to deny that the pandemic has further complicated the situation and increased emergency assistance needs; that is all the more reason to review the model and to strengthen resources. But the problems are previous, and have been raised by the emergency professionals themselves for years. Problems that, as I said, are not reduced to the number of ambulances. The coordination centres of Bizkaia, Gipuzkoa and Araba are responsible for receiving emergency and health emergency calls. In these centers work medical personnel, nursing, administrative assistants, logically, operating 24 hours a day. For many years there have been situations of job insecurity in these centres that affect work that is absolutely essential for our society, with a significant deficit in the size of staff in all categories. Staff have denounced a situation that they have also described as overflowing on many occasions. And in particular, to give some example, the medical staff of Bizkaia has denounced a great labour penosity due to the saturation and excessive demand for incoming calls. Calls that sometimes end up blocked or lost, which, obviously, can pose a risk to the safety of people in need of assistance. They are reporting shifts in which there are fewer doctors than established, paying attention for 12-13 hours in a continuous way, day or night, or having to make an urgent assessment to decide in a few minutes how to solve situations in which people's lives may be at stake. All this, optimizing resources, because indeed, indeed, because there is a lack of UVI. Substitute staff of doctors and doctors are subjected to irregular, unbalanced pace of work in time and time. They are often advised to go to work without sufficient time to organize their personal and family life, or, for example – as the unions also denounce – there is no negotiation of working schedules with the staff, which sometimes leads to overwork hours on the staff. All this has a negative impact on first-class assistance, on a service that is a necessity, that is a fundamental public service, a service that is critical on many occasions. Labour Inspectorate urged the Managing Director of Emergencies two months ago to meet a requirement made, so it can be seen, six years ago and that he had not been executed in six years by those responsible. A requirement resulting from a complaint made, in this case, by the union ESK, in relation to the regulation of rest times in order to avoid fatigue and improve the care of professionals. Avoiding fatigue and improving attention when we talk about those who coordinate health emergencies to us seems to us that it is not anything and should be taken seriously, which is not done when Inspection has to call your attention for not meeting a requirement that you did six years ago. Therefore, in the coordination centres we sometimes have a staff that complains of being physically and mentally exhausted, which is subject to great workloads, which has an impact on poor assistance to citizens, which in a service like this, without attempting to generate alarmism, can put lives at risk. The model of management via subcontracting of private companies, in our opinion, is also behind the problems that our emergency system has. We think – and I have been told on other occasions – that private companies do not paint anything in ambulances or, in this case, in a public emergency coordination centre. We think that in the emergency coordination centres private companies do not paint anything, beyond their intention to obtain economic revenues at cost or from a worse service or from working conditions or, as in this case, through both issues. In addition, the workers of the emergency telephone service are incomprehensiblely attached to a telemárketing agreement, although the name of the agreement has now changed, but it is the telemárketing agreement, which, in our opinion, has neither feet nor head for a service with such special and critical characteristics as emergencies. They are now awaiting the next paper, like every ecquienical year, because their working conditions depend to a large extent on it. But we think that, in addition to their working conditions, the quality of a service that is fundamental and critical depends on these working conditions. We, therefore, think that it is not only a question of increasing the number of Araba ambulances, which we agree with, but we think that there is a deeper problem with the emergencies in Euskadi. We think that there is a bad model when we talk about a service of first order that has a high degree of private concertation, that we think should be discarded and that is generating serious problems. Nor do we agree with the privatization of part of health transport, we have expressed it on more than one occasion. The private ambulance sector lives at the expense of public money almost exclusively. Business comes first, and you can't let business go first when we're talking about a service like public health, Because, in addition, many of these companies do not have a good practice. They have had a bad practice, above all, with regard to the treatment of workers, but also in the fulfilment of their contractual obligations and in the treatment with the public administration, with the department, with the Basque Government itself, to which on more than one occasion these companies have left behind at the last moment. Therefore, for us, of course, it was important to talk about the publication of this model. In this case, I have already transmitted to Mrs Garrido, the proponent of this initiative, that, if there is a chance that an initiative will be adopted to provide these resources – in this case they are needed in Araba – we can leave the issue of the publication of the model for 24 hours and sign – and, as is often said, leave us hair on the net – but it does not seem that there is either on the part of the groups that support the government even willing to talk about it. And, therefore, we have signed that amendment, in this case, with Mrs Ubera, with the EH Bildu Group. We agree on a very simple question...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u97	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u98	I'm done, Madam President. ... on a very simple question: resources, yes, but the model is very different. We think that you are actually in the same model as those who are ruling here. We think that the question of the model is much more important than that of a single resource.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u99	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u100	Good morning, everyone. Well, Mrs Garrido, we don't have any trouble voting point-to begin with, but as Mr. Hernandez has told you very well, the problem is not to put more or less of a resource or not, but here the problem is deeper, and we really ought to go to the root to settle our problem, because today we're talking about a problem that we haven't solved for years, and we're going over and over again in the law. And it should be thought how it is possible in this house all the time, without repairing the matter, for years. This shows that something doesn't work very well, that shows that the government doesn't respond efficiently, not even the opposition groups, but we all don't have the same level of responsibility. We had the same question in the foregoing legislation. The workers of Emergence came to this house. And after that, pandemia came, and even in the pandemia, the privations in Emergence were exposed, but also in the vital bond of life. Emergency Integrated Sanitarian Organization for the past few years is in constant decay: without purpose, without project, without direction. And there are several examples of this, and I will give some examples to see what is going on in the Emergence. Look, do you remember the conflict with the co-ordinate centers that met to centralize? We had a discussion. You know, it was just fun to centralize it, and finally, because of the staff and opposition teams that stopped, and I was engaged to make an examination, to make a report that was to be finished in 2019. But we don't know the report yet. That, in a way. One more example: how many people have gone by in the last years, as directors of Emergence? How many people? And the government has put in it a people who don't know about the subject, who don't know. And besides, without forgetting the pandemia that the manager of Emergence did, didn't he? Then, in the last few days, see what happened with the vaccine. Emergence has not entered the field of preference, and its insertion has also stopped. Even among the workers who work there have been distinctions, the techniques have been pushed aside... And those that are in the basic, but who are transporting COVID patients in the diary haven't even entered the prime insertion phase. The subject, therefore, has not been put on any further resource, the subject is much more profound, and needs to be turned over to the state. It is necessary that the subject should be brought to an end in order to remedy it. And in that sense, at the beginning of legislation, we made a suggestion to make a meeting of the manager and manager of the troubles of 061 or video conferences, to recognize them... 'Cause they did a publicization process, which was very successful. It was so successful that they decided to spread it into the other area. And that's why, because we're trying to get to the bottom of the subject, we've proposed a machine in the past years. I would like to remember, when the legislation of 2012-06 was made for the reform of the law of emergency, we made a very accurate and integrated plan: The production of the Euscalal Agency, integrated in an integrated view of an emergency response. Not only watching for disasters or unusual emergencies, but from daily emergencies, all the collective members of the community co-ordinately co-ordinated and without distinction. We have also planned to publish the services of Ellobarus and Tolsa in emigrations, because they are the only services that are not public in advanced vital media; or then we have the public and the guide of private business. We got everything. We've also planned with a model like Osat, or a pattern used with Onkological, protected by this decree, that we can make a pubertic process and structure only one network, professionals, trained, articulated, and also active in any emergency. I remember, also this Hadadeta Atarz... He's gone? Mr. Akianzia is gone. for he himself was present in this dispute, and because I agreed with him to unite and regulate the conditions of the EAE, which at last set forth in the year before. Even through the Pandemonium, from the first wave, the wants and privations that had been seen, the recommenation of ambulances, and the increase of the health department. And it was very significant: There were several of the most basic ambulances in the pandema, without work, and then taxis and other options were taken, and several ambulances were pushed away, and so many of the staff were prepared to go to Madrid, because they felt despised and despised, and when they could, they threw one hand at him and helped him, seeing how the situation was. Tell me also recently, that we have recently made a specific proposal for the future of the future Union, by determining a page of the course with its complete development. And even if you like, we're willing to talk about this because it's important to us, not only to answer for a short time, but also to determine the course of the course, and to begin with the profound problem that we're going to take a walk? For we have seen what is going on; we have great dysfunctions in the capitals with protocols: "The police, the edge troopers, the sentries... In fact, there was a decodination of the first moment of the Horses when they entered the emergency wards. Look, too, what has happened to us in the pandema, and all the other privations we have in our everyday age: predominance in its most general sense, and then it has its direct consequences. That's why our plan was to look forward to the short period of time to answer, and at the same time, with long-term gaze, right? And then we'd say, "Okay, we got it on TV, we got it on Christmas, we got it, we got it, we got it on our side, we got it, we got it, we got it, we got it, we got it, we got it, we got it, you got it, you got it, you got it, you got it, These research teams have also been doing covida's forecast reports and make reports for the Medical Department. Then what we were planning was to make a study of them, to determine how many lives we must advance, where we ought to place them, considering the criteria necessary to follow them, and based on objective numbers and data. As you know, there are standards among the nations. These forces determine how long it takes to respond to an emergency. For example, Great Britain is very well defined by objective facts. And we could do it, too, we have a center, and with that center, right? Then we were planning to take a test first. When we get the results of this examination, the reorganization we have to do with the consequences, and the means to increase, right? And to look at the whole EAE, because there is an immense tendency to fall into provincialism, and it seems to us that this subject is to be looked beyond provincialism. And I think it's important to play with that broad stare. And, on the other hand, we should consider the emissaries as well, even in the emporiums. And here we have just asked another question, for, for instance, it will have redskin, if Crucese has it, Donostia does not have it, but Donostia is responsible for carrying the inhabitants of Arana into the land of Donos. So that general view is important, in specific data, the international standards. And here we can do a nice job to improve the situation, because there are plenty to do, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u102	[[Microphone Off spoke]] ... something that Mr Hernández has commented on, because he said he would have been willing to negotiate, removing the last point from the transactional and if he had admitted himself... And he said that it was that the government groups were not willing. [[He's shown a document.]] This is the first communication I have received here in this plenary on a possible compromise at this point. There has been no communication with this group. None. It's just to clarify. I mean, it's not that... No, no. There has been no communication with this group. And now, going into the matter, well, the initiative put to us by the People's Party was registered on November 20, a day after a similar initiative was registered at the General Councils of Álava, also by the People's Group. And there was the debate, at those General Meetings, on January 20th, so I did not take any surprise either, seeing that the arguments that are being used are practically the same; and it is also logical that this be the case. In this regard, I want to address this debate, as do my colleagues and my colleagues at the General Councils of Álava of the Socialist Group, avoiding the misunderstanding and, above all, fleeing certain speeches aimed at drawing a false scenario of institutional abandonment or provincial victimism; I have never believed that this is reasonable and I do not believe it for this debate either. We are approaching this debate with a constructive attitude, away from victimism and party discourse, because we are starting from a basic premise and I believe that it is much closer to reality, and it is that all those who are represented here, all parliamentary groups without exception, we all want Basque citizenship (and, therefore, viscaínos, Alavese, Gipuzcoans) to have the most appropriate health means to be attended to. As this debate has been recurrent in the Álava area, it is easy to access data relating to the resources available in this province on the health transport network. And I am not going to repeat them because they have been agreed in those debates. I will focus on the fact that there is a specific approach to the need for more medicalized ambulances in the territory of Álava, made by the People's Party. And I do want to analyse that, in the initiative and in the amendments that have been recorded here, it does not fall so much into detail as it has fallen, above all, in the debates on the Alava Boards, where each group has been proposing a specific number of ambulances. It is true that in the transactional and in the initiative a specific number of ambulances have been given – in that they coincide – but, well, in Álava, even some groups have said where they had to be located. But I believe that, if we exercise honesty, it is logical that, as we put forward in our amendment, the Basque Government evaluates whether, in the light of the impact of the pandemic and the usual demand on the Álava health transport network, some change is required, both in the current allocations and in the coordination protocols between these resources and the whole of the Basque health care network. I believe that this is an amendment consistent with the need to know the usual demand for emergency health services and their level of provision and specialization, and that it understands in a reasonable way that these decisions cannot be the result of a mere parliamentary debate or a game of majorities or minorities, but must respond to clear criteria. Nothing more. And thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u103	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Madam Larauri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u104	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good noon to all. It's particularly good that he's here today because of the effort he's done to the Chief of Apples. The People-Citizens Group is bringing us a debate on the Osakidetza emergency health transport network in which, in particular, they directly call for the provision of two new advanced life support resources with doctors and based in Araba, i.e. two more medicalized ambulances based in Araba. This same debate, as has been said, took place two weeks ago at the General Councils of Araba and we are all aware of its content. And, moreover, at 14:14 hours – now it is 15:07 – we have known the transactional amendment between EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos, of which we had not had any information, nor anyone (either the People's Party, nor Elkarrekin Podemos nor Bildu), at any time, has approached us to ask ourselves absolutely nothing, with which I understand that they were not at all interested in our participation. You come with an alarmist message, which does not correspond, at all, to the reality of Araba's care network. They want to make it look like everything's wrong. They claim institutional abandonment and comparative aggravation towards Araba regarding the rest of the territories and launch or want to transfer the following message: "Or two ambulances more than one specific type, of these medicalized, or Araba will be unprotected and will be chaos". But that's not the reality. The reality is that, due to the good management of the Basque Government, Osakidetza and Emergentziak Osakidetza for years and their continuous improvement, the care network of Euskadi, and of Araba in particular, is comprehensive and of quality. Health care is guaranteed for all citizens, wherever they are, in any part of the territory. You guys are closing in on your position. They do not want to hear or know anything else, as we have seen, but they do not want to see that, in order to make a correct analysis, of course, we must see the whole system. And they say we're going to argue that we're working on the network. Obviously, we are going to argue that we are working on the network, because, if not, there is no way to analyse your specific request. And it's so important to know that you work in the network, because you can't answer, you can't answer isolated questions of "Today I ask two more", without seeing what else we have and channeling resources in its entirety. The response to any emergency emergency is carried out taking into account all of them, both their individual assistance capacity and teamwork. In addition, the resource set is not exclusive to an area. There are no walls between zones, between territories, the coordinators distribute resources throughout the territory, according to demand and needs. And, of course, it doesn't mean leaving one area unprotected to cover another. Networking means not having concentrated resources, but distributed throughout the territory, and going where it is needed and in the shortest possible time. Thus, the assistance response strategy in Araba is adapted to its unique distribution of population and risks. Thus, a strategy for Gasteiz and the Ayala Valley is planned for its population and the confluence of risks such as road axes, airport, industrial hubs, etc. And in these, in the Valley of Ayala and Gasteiz, the greatest number of assistance resources is concentrated, the same strategy that serves, which is used for Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, which you eternally compare. On the other hand, for the rural areas of Araba another strategy was established, which is similar to that of other Autonomous Communities and is based on functional coordination and integration between primary care facilities and emergency resources in Osakidetza. Different characteristics, different strategy. You may not always have arrived in time, and you have given some examples. We always, sincerely, regret any unfortunate event that happens, but not your initiative, to put more, guarantees that this could have been avoided. But what we do not think is responsible is to create alarm in relation to this matter and to do, in part, demagoguery in this. Besides, it's not about more and more. It's not just about quantity. This is good coordination, proper and effective management, and it is sustainable, because we cannot forget that we are talking about public resources. In any case, Osakidetza, when it has understood that it was necessary, has made the necessary modifications. And we've always seen this, and especially to deal with the COVID pandemic. Since we are not closed, we believe it is appropriate to ask the Basque Government, Osakidetza, to make an assessment of the situation, both in terms of dealing with COVID and in the usual demand for the urgent transport network, and, if necessary, to make the necessary modifications, which, as I say, have been made continuously. In fact, since the pandemic began, within the Covid Contingency Plan, it has been increased in five ambulances of different types, three of them with the capacity to be medicalized, which exclusively cater to patients of COVID. Therefore, Osakidetza adapts to the circumstances, it is not stopped. They talk about WHO recommendations. Well, I have no doubt that Osakidetza perfectly meets its parameters. And then, on the other hand, we have a real state decree of 2012, in which the PP ruled in Spain, which determines the characteristics of advanced life support, i.e., medicalized and nursing, in the, which, when talking about the endowments they have to have, does not always require a doctor. He says, "And they'll have a doctor only when the assistance to render requires it." Therefore, following that, Osakidetza has different types of resources that adapt them to the needs. And what, of course, does not seem to be provided or adequate is that when a rule is made that provides for different types of resources – well done, probably – then here you come, you demand it and let them see that if there is no medicalization you are not giving the service. No, no, The service is being provided with the set of resources. And so, following the determinations of this royal decree, Osakidetza has based in Araba two advanced vital supports with nursing, located in Gasteiz and Amurrio; two medicalized, of which you ask, in Gasteiz and Laudio; 13 basic life support ambulances; five specific resources for COVID, of which we have said that they are of different kind to adapt to the different gravitys, that is, 22 in total of the different types, that is based only in Araba. In addition, other resources are shared, which are worked with them in a coordinated way – the one that has been said –: the medicalized ambulance based in Arrasate, which is evidently shared with Gipuzkoa, and a helicopter, the medicalized helicopter of Osakidetza, which we obviously share throughout Euskadi, but which is a resource that also serves Araba. In addition, there are agreements with other Autonomous Communities concerning areas bordering Araba, in particular with La Rioja and Castilla-León, resources based on Haro, Logroño and Miranda de Ebro. And you insist that that of Llodio, the medicalized of Llodio, which serves mainly Bizkaia. Man, to see, serves the core of the Aiara valley (the second region with the most population of Araba), and that in his journey also attends to Bizkaia, so, man, the Basque geography is that which is, sometimes clumsy, and on the journey – and so has the health organization, as Ayalesa I tell you – our reference hospital is Galdakao. And, obviously, Galdakao is Bizkaia, and along the way there are also Bizkaia cores, but that, well, I don't think it's sin, right? We're sharing and it's okay, we're still covered. We therefore understand that your request is partial and that the whole should be seen. What worries us is that they want to create alarm with this issue, and what is to be seen is that the health network of Euskadi – and also that of Araba – is comprehensive and of quality, and that Osakidetza will continue to adapt according to needs and circumstances. And that's why we're only gonna protect our correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Passing on the line of teams that don't run, Misa mustn't speak. Then we'll take the turn to answer it. Euscalo Popular-Ciudadnos's representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u106	Well, Mrs. Larrauri, but you know that 80% of the population of Álava is in Vitoria. I already understand that you are Ayalese and that yes, indeed, in the area of Aiara is Llodio, is Amurrio, and that they have an important population, and they will be the most populated population centers after Vitoria, but it is that in Álava 80% of the population is in Vitoria. And the reality is neither alarmism nor victimism nor demagogy, it's about responding where there's a problem, and here's the problem that's already perfectly detected on many occasions, is that they're not punctual occasions. Because, then, you also know the reality of the territory, and you know perfectly well – because you know it, because it is also in an area where there are small villages – that there are many times in which many people do not call the ambulance, that they take the car themselves to make a transfer to the hospital, because there are many times in which the ambulance is called and you see that it does not arrive; that I am not talking only about the medicalized ambulances. But, look, Mrs Larrauri, if we go to the number of ambulances, of course, in Alava we have two, but it is that of Llodio, 80% of its activity develops it in Bizkaia; moreover, it is not only that it develops its activity in Bizkaia, it is that the management of the service itself and the mobilization of this resource is done precisely from Bizkaia. In Bizkaia we have four, plus Llodio's, five. And, in addition, if you review the resource map of Osakidetza, you will see one very curious thing: this resource appears in Álava and Bizkaia both because it is understood, of course, it is located in Álava, is managed from Bizkaia and serves in Bizkaia. And in Gipuzkoa there are five ambulances. Then, man, it's what matters. Apart from where, in fact, there are different resources to carry out urgent health transport. Indeed, a doctor is not always needed, but on many occasions a doctor is needed. But not because of being a doctor, but because this type of resources also carries special devices that are used by doctors in also especially problematic situations in which we are talking about saving a life or not saving a life, we are talking about absolutely transcendental moments in a person's life. And, also, that at a given time the attention due to a person is given according to that gravity, also supposes that the income is or may be of one form or another, for not to regret in many cases, therefore, equal to a death. We therefore believe that this additional expenditure that could at this time be a cost to the Government, then, in addition, would result in savings because precisely also at the time of hospital admission the person, in particular, could even arrive with better attention. It's not about comparative aggravations. This parliamentarian has been carrying these issues for a long time, the health spokesman, and when there have been deficiencies in other territories with respect to the territory of Alava have been raised and there has been no problem. Of course, you're talking to me about the study, but it's just that we've been on the pending study for a long time, it's that it's already legislatures that we're asking for the study. I believe that they do not want to do the study, Mrs Larrauri, because in the end this study will clearly reveal the situation of deficiency and deficit in the territory of Alava regarding the medicalized ambulances, and that we have two, but one is in Llodio and serves mostly in the territory of Bizkaia, and I tell you that it is managed from Bizkaia. We work in the network, but that network is often not enough to meet the needs we have in this regard in Alava. And, on top of that, when the medical ambulance is busy carrying out inter-hospital transports, here... , and that is that it has nothing more to talk to those who are in this area and to the professionals who work in this area. It is that there are many times when Vitoria stays a whole morning without the mobile UVI because she is busy in a transfer, for example, as she has recently passed, to Galdácano or to the Hospital de Basurto! And we ran out of mobile UVI. And, okay, Mondragon's can come, if it comes. And Llodio's, if she's in Bizkaia, how do we do it? I believe that the need for this remedy is absolutely justified. And, look, if we go to the number of inhabitants, it's an ambulance for 120,000 inhabitants. Inhabitants of Álava: 320,000. It's just that they come out 2.7. We just have one. If you've already... I mean, the reality of data also speaks for itself. And to conclude, I simply want to say that, well, indeed, this issue can be much broader, but this group, when presenting this initiative, has intended to focus precisely on where there is a problem. We believe that there is now a lack of medicalized emergency health transport resources, which is the mobile ICU, in the territory of Alava, which is the time to resolve them, without prejudice to the fact that obviously this study, this analysis, is being carried out. And as we also believe, then, in the end we will support the two points of the compromise amendment signed between the Elkarrekin Podemos Group and EH Bildu. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u107	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Podemos-IU. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u108	Good. It has become clear to me that I have been missed this week that I have not called them to negotiate. The initiative was Mrs. Garrido's. She did get in touch with me. And I started talking about contents with her and Mrs. Ubera, who also contacted me. Next time, I promise I'll call you, even though I know there's very little going on to reach an agreement. Because we, when we table an amendment, have three points: one, basically, so that it can be analysed in another way to which you put it, because that is what you have already put forward in your amendment; another to provide more concrete resources, in this case, in Araba; and a third on the issue of the publication of the model. To provide more resources in Araba, we knew, or I can say that we felt that it would not be accepted by the groups that support the Government. The publication, of course, I am absolutely sure that they would not negotiate with me that as a result of this non-law proposal of the People's Party. So we weren't going to get anywhere either, no matter how much I called them, but I promise to call them next time. It is true that this is not about generating alarms. I agree. I do not think Mrs Garrido intended to raise alarm when she brings this initiative. The problems that have been encountered in particular in Araba are known to us all through the media. And I do not think that we in this Parliament are going to accuse the media of trying to generate alarm when things have happened or when the shortcomings that have been experienced have been seen. And because, moreover, we have also been listening to professionals, professionals, workers, for a long time, pointing out this kind of thing. Not only about the lack of certain material resources in Araba, but about the whole model. And that's why for us, Mrs. Garrido, it was very important to talk about the whole model. Because, yeah, you work on the network. It is good for us to work on the network, defining what it is to work on the network. The problem isn't that it's networked. The problem is that this network is a mix of public, private things, which in the end is generating a bad model, a model that has affections for citizens, both in the legs of ambulances and in the legs of coordination centers. In the coordination centres too, the fact that women workers from private companies work for us makes no sense. In other words, whoever is at the station collecting emergency calls, we think it is such a fundamental issue that we should not question that this has to be a public service managed from the public very directly. I think the same for ambulances, because I think it's a first-class health service. And for us this is very important. And every time there's such an ambulance initiative, and so on, we're going to try to talk about this. And if there was the ability to have reached agreements, as I said, by putting this aside, we can put it aside in a concrete initiative that will be signed, but we will always bring it. But there was no possibility, because of the three things that we had raised, this one, I know that the groups supporting the Government are not going to negotiate it; the question of providing more resources, in particular, in Araba, we already knew that neither, and it has been seen in the debate; and, well, to be studied, therefore, is that it is an old debate. Well, good. If we can abstain perfectly in the amendment you have tabled! To analyze how the model is does no harm to anyone, of course. In any case, next time, don't worry, Mr. Rico – which I have seen you very worried about – which I will call you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u109	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u110	I've been worried about Mr. Rico and Mrs. Larauri when they started talking and, "You didn't get in touch with us, you didn't make an attempt." I said: "Ah! I won't go there once, and I thought maybe it was a chance." But then you've come here to notice that everything's wrong, you shut up at your position, it's all right, it's good, it's good, it's good. It's fine, it's genius. Senncia, there's nothing to change. So it's true that we didn't come to you this time, but you too could have come to us, didn't you? The distance across the road is the same. I didn't even think there was a chance of success, but it's true that if you're willing to take a test, you can protect our first point, right? There's no harm at all. This group of mathematicians will investigate, based on specific data, and the photo will be clear there. And even with that photo, doubt can be explained, and there's no distraction, no distraction that requires more or less Araban resources, I don't know what's needed or what's needed in the gym or what's not. This discussion can be "finite" with the photo, but it looks like you don't want to do that either, right? And it's a shame because we know, we know... "To see how little foundation in the Emergence, Madame Cedui, is to see how little ground there is, and how the management of the Emergements has. Emergence managers at BCAM, a Basque (... That Basque Center, who began this investigation with those groups of mathematicians who had been applied to mathematics, began to send the data away, but didn't send the data, and the mathematicians didn't send the data and didn't send them, and finally the investigation remained there without doing it. Not even for this purpose, there is no capacity for it in Emergence, and unfortunately, in the last few years, they collapse, without any design, without any project, without any direction. And it's serious because it's a very important health system and social network eye, just when life is at stake, both in everyday life and in emergency. As we saw it in the Pandemon, or as we saw it at the Horses, or as we see it at other times. And it's important to be a professional network, a trained network, that one of them will be built with volunteers, that different bodies should be educated by the builders, the firemans, the edge soldiers, the police, all of them having protocols to work together in the country, and that they work as they ought to be in the center co-ordinations. Can you imagine, if the center coordinater had been centralized as you wanted? Pandemian? If this Centre is infected, then se acabó, se acabó. It's true, you know, you laugh, but often I don't know if we think. And then there were pollutions. Ask them how they did it. I don't know if we know the diary. Then this subject is very important. I know what I know is if we were in the government, we'd put an advanced live release ticket right now, if there were no doctors, a nurse, the report would be finished by now. You made commitment, that report. We'd be working with that mathematical team to have that photo and then we'd have to make up our mind on the consequences. And we'd also be in touch with the ones from 061, to know what process they've committed in the whales, and what can be useful for us to bring here to practice. That's what we would have done at the moment, but we're not in the government, you've got a lot of it as you say well, and so it's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u112	Thank you, President. I was thinking about not doing a second surgery, but I'm taking pleasure in this replica. The truth is that it seems to me that sometimes it is worth it, above all, to clarify. Let's see, no worries, Mr Hernandez, no worries. I was surprised that you didn't call me, because you and I talked, and it also seems to me that that's what we have to do, as we talked to other groups in this House. I have simply made it clear, because you said that it was not possible to leave a part of the compromise amendment that you signed because the parties that we supported in the Government had not agreed to that. So, I said that that's not the case, that no one has transferred any compromise proposal to us. If not, I wouldn't even have said it, I would have given it to everyone, they have to know what they do with their initiatives. But, of course, we get very great with the Basque Center for Applied Mathematics, but sometimes basic mathematics is not very good for us. If you want an initiative to emerge in this Parliament, you have to count on us mathematically. It's very simple, it's very flat. So, if someone brings an initiative here, it's logical that they think about talking to groups that can make it possible to reach agreement on that initiative because they give the majority. If you don't do it, it's like there's someone who's not looking to get a deal going; just like that, what you're looking for is to bring a debate here. And if he doesn't even have an agreement, then he's even better off. We can discuss many issues. The data has been given by the spokesman for the Nationalist Group and we could go on to discuss: is that enough? Isn't that enough? Well, our amendment is clearer. Here, who is saying that there is a problem we say: "Well, then, evaluate that problem based on two parameters: the incidence of the covid and the uses of those ambulances." I do not see too much trouble with the amendment we are proposing. In fact, I'm going to be honest with you: it's not hard for me to defend you. It just seems reasonable to me, it just seems logical to me! I don't understand where the problem is. I'm going to go to your compromise amendment. Similarly, as Mr Gordillo says, the opposition opposition... I'm not trying to make opposition opposition – I'm telling you clearly – but I'm looking at what the opposition is up to. By the way, I take the opportunity to thank you for the vote in favour on some points, on the previous point that we have had, which I have forgotten, and it seemed rather rude to me, so I also do it from this atrium. To me, there is one thing that draws my attention to in that transactional amendment that Podemos has signed with EH Bildu. It also draws my attention, by the way, that in the General Councils of Álava all these groups supported their initiative and here it has not been so: to support the initiative of the People's Party... So, well, the same goes for it that here, rather than reaching an agreement, there are those who are trying to raise a debate and, above all, that there is no such agreement. But, well, I am going to the compromise amendment and to what has been brought to my attention. In the first point, researchers are tasked with carrying out a study, and it says: "And once the findings of the study are known, and if necessary, reorganize the existing resources." Second point: "Resolve the existing deficiency...". I'm sorry, what are we left with? Is the study going to analyze if there is a deficiency or there is already a deficiency? Because if there's already a shortage, why are we doing the study? Well, they have to explain it to me anyway. Well, I agree with the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group. Evaluate, the data is there. We all know the advanced life-service ambulances that Alava has. It has been suggested that there may be a problem. Evaluate: uses of these ambulances and endowment, the condition you have had with the scope of COVID. And on that basis, make the decisions. I think it's simple, I think it's the right thing and I think it's the logical thing. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u113	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians. Madam Larauri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u114	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Nothing, nothing more, to reaffirm that there has been no contact with us. We're not worried, as Mr. Rico said. No more. There's been no interest in contacting us, no interest in that picture, no interest in that headline, or I don't know what wasn't, but no... Or not hearing us, closing in on her position, and there's been no interest. Elkarrekin Podemos – and then has been fucked with Bildu – insists on the different types of hiring of resources, on the recruitment model. I think this is not the debate. I believe that, at the moment, citizenship is not your priority. Obviously, we respect and understand that all labour rights must be guaranteed. We respect the legitimate aspirations of the whole group of workers, but I believe that, at this moment, and in the debate that Mrs Garrido has brought, it is not the debate. What we are talking about here is whether the service, whether the urgent transportation network in Araba, and the network in general, the care network of Osakidetza, is correct. And what we understand is that it's right. And, of course, when you call an ambulance, I think the priority that you need to be cared for is to be treated well. And that, of course, is guaranteed. Then we do not understand what the debate is. This is Mrs. Garrido from the WHO ratios. Well, we haven't found them anywhere, because I don't think the WHO is talking right now about any ratio between population and ambulance... I don't think so. It's been impossible for me to find them. If you can give them, I appreciate it, but I think the WHO is not talking about it. And Osakidetza, of course, respects all the parameters. It is also strange that, if they existed, they were such, because in comparative law, in different countries, reference countries such as the United Kingdom, the Nordic countries or the United States are now using very diverse systems in which, mainly, they go with technical staff and not with doctors; the doctor only goes up to the ambulance in very strange situations. With this, we are greatly surprised by that recommendation from WHO. They say we're back in a studio. No, no. We have not brought this debate here. We understand that the assistance of Emergencyziak and Osakidetza is adequate. And we're also saying that Osakidetza, if he understands that there are needs, values them and solves them. And, in particular, with the covid has increased the resources of personnel and ambulances, in particular, by five; that is, it is adapting. However, since they have brought this debate, well, we have considered it appropriate to request a reassessment, because, as we say to you, these assessments are being carried out continuously. Mrs Garrido says that Araba remains unprotected, and believes that Ayala is a specific area. Yes, of course, it's a specific area, but it's also Arab. But I think we have to go beyond those territorial limits. I believe that at this moment in the history of life, those boundaries, those stripes between territories, should also be overcome, and see a little bit, see a little beyond. And, of course, no part of the territory is unprotected. And for the rural area the same strategy is used as in other communities: for example, Castile and León or Andalusia, which governs the People's Party. So, don't say an area is unprotected. The same strategy is used. And besides, they're gifted, there's resources. And resources are used. Sometimes they will be busy, but there are others, and they are used according to demand. And there's coverage. And that of Araba, that of Llodio, with the trips to Bizkaia, not, 80% are not, but, of course, they go where there is demand. That ambulance goes where there's demand, and it's not 80%. I have to tell you again that it's simplistic, that you have to see the network. We insisted on the network. And the aggravation compared to Araba, it has become clear that no. Araba, someone said Araba, zazpigarren praises. Alaba bai baina azkena ez: parekoa. And, just like that, we also listen to the workers, but to everyone, not just one group, we listen to everyone. And I believe that citizenship has fully understood what our work is, and here's the evidence. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the original text of the Basque Group as the popularCidanos team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly were 43; 75; the supporters 13; the contrary, 41; the abscesssion, 21. white, 0.1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u116	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote together for the middle-term correction signed by the Podemos-IU and the EH Collectors. Yes, you've been asking for stitches. That's the number one and two points and three. We voted points first and second. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters are 33; the opponents are 42; the opposition is 42; the abscessions are 0; white, 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u117	So, we haven't accepted the number one and number two. We'll vote for the number three next. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters are 27; the contrary, 48; the abstations are 0; white, 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u118	So, we didn't accept the third point. And finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the U.S.A. patriots in the whole area that the teams present. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting were 43; the votes given, 75; 41; the contrary, 28; the abscesssions, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-04.u119	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was three o'clock in the afternoon and forty-three.
