ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "The question is, "Unai Gravés Rodríguez, Eubertarians, members of the team of the United States, made to the head of economics, patience, and environmental department, about Ekio Act." Mr. Gragars, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Tapia andrea, we know your commitment to the sustainable development goals to move towards a new energy model that will bet on the decoupling of fossil fuels and the neutrality of greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, in line with the commitments of the European Union. We know that the Euskadi 2030 Energy Strategy aims to increase energy efficiency, increase the use of renewable energy and deepen the Basque energy research strategy as key levers for a just energy transition. You know, it's knowing too that it's a goal that's made you wanna go on that way. First of all, the minimum amount of energy, saving, and being efficient in use. Second, the production of electricity with as much respect as possible. For this reason the wager is reassembled by energy, if we do not wish it: on the one hand, the nuclear energy that doesn't produce gas from the heat effects, and on the other, electricity coming from somewhere else. So energy efficiency and retractable energy are now our design and our destination. The guidelines of Euscal power policy have been issued to the people by the Euscal agency, which has been created by the Euscal Organization of energy, and which, perhaps in the latest stages, has been shown to us by insisting on the development of large projects and small projects. We have tried to bring this message into this very assembly, when we have spoken for a long and tedious time. Instead of assigning great plans alone, EVE urges a great deal of initiative for self-consumption, for a collaboration with local administration, for local co-operative projects and private public treaties. It will be necessary, too, that the aims established on the 2030th strategy, and the great challenge of the demands of the legal sphere in force, should be the firm support of the agents who have the power to decide on the outcome of energy, if we wish to go that way. At the moment, the Basque Government is working on a new law on energy transition and climate change 2030, while at the same time promoting a renewable energy strategy, with the provision of various actions of different dimensions and modes of governance. Probably the most innovative of these is associated with the Ekiola initiative for photovoltaic power generation through cooperatives. Therefore, Mrs Tapia, I would like to ask you the following question: What will be the governance and objectives of the Ekiola initiative, promoted by the Department of Economic Development, Sustainability and the Environment through the Basque Energy Agency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u2	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. Mr. Grivores, you have mentioned, in some measure, the objectives of energy, and I shall go directly to the Equila project. This project consists in creating nearby energy facilities for filling up the supplies and targets of the citizens who live near installation, as a large and important part of the energy transition is called. This transition is often only interpreted as a slow change in energy sources, but it has another variable, the decision of the people, and the process of placing them in the centre. So in the context we now live in, it's a step to bring together companies and consumers and something new. The kiosk changes the verticality and provides another tool for what is called the democratization of energy. The energy is located as social goods. And in reference to Europe, a direct exchange of the European Parliament, a direct 1019 of the Council, is peculiarly applicable to this. And that's what we get for it, too. This part of the American population is rooted in our tradition, founded on our traditions and values, and is supposed to bring all this into energy. As we know the cooperative models of our manufactures and social developments, we shall also be based on this case. The concept of the neighborhood, the collective project, in this case, is taken to the energy management. In this case, the consideration of these patterns is indispensable, from the great and small projects, to the transcendental transition, as you have said, from different places. We are entirely absorbed in this process, and in this mythic transition and this peace of European Green Deal, we wish to bring patience to nations and cities, especially to all citizens. This is where the Act of Ekola finds its function, an initiative created in a private public alliance between the Basque organization and the organization of the Mondragon team, and which requires local administrations to become reality. And of course, they're involved in the community and they too. Amongst them it is necessary that the citizens should be the leading man, and be placed in the centre: To be the leading men of management. The electricity will be produced using photovoltal technology, and different projects are required in different places, in cities, in quadrills, OmniAbeans, where the members and co-operation of local administrations and local administrations are required. Commercial service companies without profit are created. The people participate and their production is still close. The fertility belongs to them, and their consumption is theirs. So that Building and Loan will be in charge. We got the first fruit. And already a co-operative has been created in Azpeiti, but we're also creating a number of meetings and teams with mankomites and forual institutions. So we could say this initiative was there, but we've stepped forward and it's already working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Second point on the subject list: "The question is, that the members of the legislatures of the Obi-Catheron team were assembled to the Treasury and the Chief of Ogas, in the midst of the history of the New Genations of Europe." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u5	Good morning, everyone. Mr. Below you talk of European funds again. Let's have a look at what we can do. We agree that everything at these times is at stake, that the funds will be decisive, that it's important to get what's going to be, not to do the same, but to make investments for the future. We have to leave the crisis, but with these modifications, as is recorded in the latest version of Euskakia Next, these funds are being carefully handled on the backs of generations to come. It's also agreed that when you say that we have to act like a people, it's like a country. I agree with some of the projects. But to get the funds, you must pass through the window in Madrid. And it gives us the impression that there are turbulences, both because of the constant complaints that we have to make until we put it in writing in the last plan, and because of the revisions to the government plans, which suggest a certain improvisation, with a list in August, another in December, now another... I understand that trying to adapt to what Madrid commands, but without being clear what or how or when it will be approved. You've been to Madrid this week, you'll tell us whether you're talking about this or not. It's a pity, anyway, to listen to Madrid for so many complaints after he's seen the career he's made here. You've done a lot of interaction calls, no mechanism has been placed, none. That's why I ask you, Mr. Sub-Ado. When and how do you deal with the constant offer you've made to us?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u6	Thank you, Mr. Otero. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u7	Mr. President, Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature. Mr. Otero, we share a concern. The funds in Europe for the resucation and resilence mechanism of Eukadination and resilitivity to the economic transformation of our country. In fact, as you know and you say, the first version of the Euskdi Next program was sent to the Spanish government in December after working for months with the Euskalians and the economics and social agents. Euskadi Next was a milestone in the design of the collective response to the challenge of facing the covid era. Since December, there have been advances in knowledge of issues related to the management of funds and their governance that have necessitated updating the Basque programme. As you know, on the same day as the approval of this second version of Euskadi Next I asked for the appearance in this House. Euskadi the deep, methodical, strategic work. And he's managed to reflect on the shared view of the future and what's agreed on. We believe that a changeable nature must be defaults to the risk of using funds properly. Let me remind you, once again, that each institution must fulfil its function. The Basque Government was responsible for designing and implementing public policies, and Parliament had to control the work of the Government. I understand that in the Congress of Deputies your group will also have put a similar question in order to co-design the national plan presented to Europe, because, otherwise, you would not understand this question very well. In any case, as you know, our budget project incorporates a management model of sufficient transparency, guarantee and information flexibility so that the use and maximization of funds has rigorous parliamentary monitoring and control, with the full management of their planning, as well as the relational and economic management with the State, the public administrations. We are working intensively with the State Government to be able to absorb as much resources as possible from the MRR. I look forward to your support and collaboration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u8	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u9	That was the question, to see how we're going to make that collaboration. You're always talking about business, but you've pushed out our constant proposals. You didn't want me to build a strategic office. The same proposal made by the Basque People at the monographic debate was not accepted. You left the funds out of the budget. The proposal made by the Basque People to the President has not been answered. On March 17th, Mr. Urkullu. We're still waiting. But, as we know what is at stake, we have not given up. And last week, on our proposal, this House gave an impetus to the strategic project of the gigafactory, showing that there is a desire for agreement and that it is possible to understand. That showed a way, but we need a permanent frame. Your team said last week, if we were knocking, if we were knocking at the government door, the gates would be open. Here we are, knocking again. I understand that this arrangement breaks the story they have been feeding for a long time, that of the opposition putting sticks on the wheels. But reality is what it has, which is clumsy. And here we go, proposing to add. Because the funds belong to all, and the decisions exceed the laws, and not to promote the conjunction, because they may have consequences. This week, he's gone to Guadalajar the electricians' plant. 80 million euros, 1,400 jobs. We won't act like you, we won't just put our blame on your backs. But there was an investment there, and it was received in BasqueNext, here. And this brings us to another question, if the projects that are here depend exclusively on business decisions outside this government, why are they on this list? In other words, the Government is submitting a list that has no control over the decisions to be taken. I suppose you are aware of what has happened this week; it makes this document obsolete. And the question would be: how many projects of these are not going to be done? And what's more, how many of these projects aren't going to be done because they didn't know how to join forces? You guys have a dilemma right now. You know that the chances of successful deployment of European funds increase if this is done in a way shared and assumed by all, but for that you have to open the melon. And that has one consequence: whether success is great or small, it would be everyone's. So you decide, you can keep closing in on the band like before, but then it would be up to you to take responsibility for what doesn't go well. And for now things don't seem to be going very well. All the uncertainty there is, the competitive investments, the projects that are on the run. We say over and over: It's too much at stake. Bed ha dicho: "frascara no es una opción." So step aside from the Party and do the real interaction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u10	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u11	Mr. Oster, when you mention the documents we've been talking about, I don't know exactly what document you're talking about. Anyway, I'd like to think we're on time to unite. You referred to the support of this House for the Basquevolt project. It is an example of a project included in the programme that is supported by a large majority of this Basque Parliament, which I am very pleased about. That I think is a way. There is a circumstance, Mr Otero, that money will be channelled mainly through calls for competition, as it cannot be otherwise. The State has launched the famous formula of expressions of interest. I encourage you, instead of being a project pick-up window, to refer them to the administrations that we will manage these calls. I insist, you draw the proposals to whom we have the responsibility at this point in time to implement public policies. Europe has lived up to the gravity of the moment. In the next few months we have played a lot, and I hope that in Euskadi we will be able to be able to be so. The great challenge ahead is to continue building a green, digital and inclusive Euskadi that looks at the gender perspective in a cross-cutting way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u12	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the Basque Socialists of the United States made of the planetal Plant, Housing and Transport Divisions, as to the measures appointed to promote the motion of the simple Eukadin housing." Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u13	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. The Basque Housing Act defines the concept of uninhabited housing in article 56 as "that dwelling which remains permanently vacant for more than two years, unless there is reason to justify its non-use under the terms of this Act and its development regulations". It also calls for the implementation of the social role of housing ownership through various measures. The latest report on the use of housing in Euskadi, published by the Department of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport, which you chair, points out that in the Autonomous Community there are 15,149 uninhabited free housing units, 1.4% of the Euskadi housing stock. The survey on housing use is essential for the design and implementation of programmes for the mobilization of uninhabited housing, such as the Bizigune programme. It is very relevant, in the new agenda of housing policies, in the context of this new recession of 2020, within the framework of the same Law 3/2015, of 18 June, of housing. A total of 53,533 uninhabited dwellings are recorded in Euskadi, a decrease of 15,698 uninhabited dwellings, 22% less than in 2017, which was when the previous study was carried out. Undoubtedly, there are two points of inflection in housing policy in recent times. One, of course, is the housing law itself and another, without a doubt, is the impetus to the policies of renting and mobilizing the uninhabited housing by the department you lead. And it's something that's not new, it's something that's already coming from the previous legislature. Undoubtedly, we must go deeper into actions that continue to mobilize empty housing, incorporate it into the market and, of course, make it easier for those who demand housing, especially those who are most vulnerable, to have the opportunity to have a decent roof and that roof at an affordable price, also promoting social rental policies. There is a foreseeable recession already at the door, and that can bring down the price of housing, which can certainly also be an opportunity to push forward new policies or reinforce existing ones. That is why I am asking you here today the following question: What kind of measures does your department propose to encourage the mobilization of empty uninhabited housing in Euskadi? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u14	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u15	President. Mr Andueza, as you know, the objective of the housing policies that we develop in our department is to have a protected public housing park sufficient to meet the social demand in Euskadi, an objective that we pursue by promoting the construction of new public rental promotions and capturing free empty housing to incorporate it into the market of protected rent. The promotion of new housing is our main priority and an obligation for our department, but it needs time and continuous effort to bear fruit. And this requires that we have to combine it with tools that can respond to short-term housing needs. One of these tools is Bizigune, which facilitates the incorporation of housing into the public rental park immediately, while giving the empty housing the social function assigned to it by the law. The programme, which has a budget of €33 million for 2021, has had a significant growth in recent years and already has more than 6,600 housing units. But, despite that effort, there is still an unspeakable volume of uninhabited housing in Euskadi, which our department is trying to reduce by working on several fronts. One is the uninhabited housing decree, which we hope to adopt shortly and which will make it possible to adopt measures both to promote rent and other measures aimed at penalizing the maintenance of unoccupied dwellings unjustifiably with the payment of an annual fee or even forced rent and expropriation in extreme cases. The other is to improve the conditions of Bizigune and adapt them to the current situation. We are finalising an order of financial measures which, among other issues, envisages the increase in the maximum income received by persons who own houses in the Bizigune programme, a maximum income that would increase up to 650 euros per month compared to the current 600 euros. An increase of close to 10% which, together with the important legal and maintenance guarantees offered by the programme, will help to maintain Bizigune's attractiveness and encourage this option among the owners. The forecast is that this new measure can enter into force after the summer. Housing which is incorporated into the programme after the approval of the order and which obtains an agreed economic valuation by Alokabide may, as I have pointed out, receive up to a maximum of 650 euros. We will also provide that the measure can benefit the housing that has been added to the programme over the course of this year or has renewed the contract during this period and are currently charging the maximum permitted amount of EUR 600, always, of course, that the economic valuation of the housing carried out by Alokabide is higher than that amount. In these cases, the owners will not have to carry out any formalities, but it will be the public society itself that will contact them to communicate the increase of the income in the corresponding percentage and its materialization with retroactive effects since 1 January. As you see, different management tools, but the same goal: to increase the public housing park to better respond to social demand.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u16	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the Podemos-Ituerda Unidas were made to the president, the market-place and the National Committee of competition, about the expedition of the Twenty-first Amendment and its Eascal Administration." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u17	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, President. On May 12th we learned that CNMC punished several companies, 22, for very serious violations against the law of competition. This body considered that these companies, these 22 consulting companies, constituted cartels which handled public tenders for at least ten years. And in this plot have been involved several Basque companies and also several departments of the Basque Government, foru-aldundiak, Bilboko Portua, udaletxeak. The analysis of the emails exchanged between the directors of the sanctioned firms and the public managers suggests that they had privileged information. Horregatik egiten disudan gallera hau da: Ikerketarik egingo du Gobernuak? Has any investigation been initiated to determine whether there really was connivance between the directors of the departments of the Basque Government, autonomous bodies and public enterprises and the signatures that have been sanctioned?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u19	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. Mrs Gorrotxategi, you said it relatively well. The investigation of the National Commission on Markets and Competition (CNMC), which has resulted in the sanctioning of a number of consultancy companies, is not confined to Basque public administrations. There are many administrations and public entities affected – you say involved –, so the CNMC has considered the consultants as a cartel. The resolution confirms the allocation to public tenders in Andalusia, Asturias, Balearic Islands, Canary Islands, Cantabria, Castilla-La Mancha, Castilla y León, Catalonia, Ceuta, Melilla, Valencian Community, Extremadura, La Rioja, Madrid, Murcia, Navarre. In any case, it is not the public administrations that are being investigated, but the companies. And with regard to the initiatives taken by the Basque Government, we have first confirmed that all the tenders promoted by the Basque Government were at the time monitored by the intervention control bodies and by the Basque Court of Public Accounts. Secondly, the CNMC has made dozens of information requirements to the various bidding public administrations, and as a general rule our performance has never been called into question by the CNMC. Thirdly, there has been no evidence of collusion in the investigation of tenders from the departments of the Basque Government. And with regard to the initiatives to be taken by the Basque Government: first, I guarantee that we will spare no effort or means to cooperate with the investigations that can be carried out; secondly, the Government will make available to Parliament all the contracts that have been made with the companies concerned; and thirdly, the Government reiterates its full commitment to good practices in public procurement and to the strict application of the law in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u21	I am glad to hear the last of the parts, what happens is that the concern does not disappear. There are also very serious concerns. I'll list at least three of you. On the one hand, because these practices have entailed very important cost overruns for the Basque Treasury and this must be taken into account. Secondly, because these services that have been outsourced are government-specific tasks, for example, the Strategic Municipal Housing Plan was awarded to Deloitte; that is also worrying. And thirdly, because of the emails I was commenting on before they were known, there is evidence that there was an improper relationship of trust between public managers and companies that have been sanctioned. But there is also another important point of gravity, and it is that relevant members of your party have been involved in this plot. I want to highlight, for example, Sabin Azua, who is the brother of former President Jon Azua, and has been fined for being part of the consulting cartel as an administrator of B+I Strategy. And of course, I don't know, for example, if she knows the lehendakari that after she managed to place Mrs. Alba Urresola at the head of the Basque Competition Authority, three weeks later, in 2017, she was hiring Sabin Azua's expedient B+I Strategy, which she commented, the strategic plan of the Basque Competition Authority itself, and it has been 400,000 euros that have been spent on outsourcing various consulting services. For this and other reasons, I believe that this really deserves a very thorough investigation, of course on the part of the Basque Government and also on the part of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Gorrotxategi, I do not think it necessary to reiterate what I have already explained that we have believed, nor the initiatives that we are going to take and which I have also pointed out. In any event, he would like to stress that the CNMC procedure had not been completed, that it had referred its resolution to the Advisory Board on Public Procurement and that administrative litigation could be brought before the National Court by the above-mentioned companies. In any case, the Basque Government will maintain a cautious attitude not to point out guilty, when the procedure remains open. A collaborative attitude to provide all the information required, an attitude of transparency and good government to try to avoid any kind of irregularity, an attitude of maximum demand in the event of any irregularity being detected. The Basque Government reiterates its commitment to good practices in public procurement and to the strict application of existing law. So, Mrs. Hatch, I'm sure you'll have a wise attitude, so while the procedure is still open, you don't have to look guilty. We will co-operate in giving us all the information we are asked to do, in order to avoid any transparent attitude. 'Esunk' confirms the commitment to a good practice in public contract and to fulfill the strict legality that's in force.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "Ask me, as Charles Iturgai, the popular Group Angulo Euscal, a member of the Ciudads made for the president, concerning the non-deservations of Mr. Sánchez with the President of the Government." My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Good morning, President. It has been 18 months since the general elections, in which the role of his party and the performance of his Government have been key to keeping President Sánchez in Moncloa, where the PNV put him three years ago. Thanks to you, the Spaniards have the worst government in one of the worst moments of our history, because you tell us, you sell us that this of the Frankenstein governments is good for the Basques. His Government's relationship with Mr Sánchez also seems to be in keeping with that logic, but we all know that when Spain goes badly to the Basques, we are worse off, even if the PNV goes well or is sometimes satisfied. The facts deny so much idyllic, Mr Sánchez's calamity of management adds to that of our domestic miscarriages. This same week let us think about Azpeitia, Corrugated, the whereabouts of the star project around hydrogen, Euskaltel, Tubacex, Petronor, etc., and that the breaches of its partner, the defrauded expectations affect key elements for our recovery on our land and for overcoming the crisis. That is why I ask you, lehendakari: How do you appreciate the relationship with Mr Sánchez and the successive non-compliances despite the expectations created?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u26	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm afraid you want to talk about the imperfects you're talking about. As you know, it is not for me to inform you of the degree of compact or incomplete agreement between the Spanish Government and the Jestzac Party of Spain. I'll tell you what it's about to tell me about my marriage with the Spanish government. In this circle, the issues that make up the relationship between the two governments are following through a process of conversation. And I'd insist that three weeks ago we've made an important deal to transfer four rights. And, on the other hand, it is true that there are other matters which are still farther from harmony. Like this arrangement about the minimum income to live. But we're still working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u29	By his answers, lehendakari, I see him moderately satisfied, as he does not want to get into the issue despite the loss of wealth, the flight of investments from this oasis – in quotes – Basque that we have. Much more satisfied than our hoteliers, for example, who are desperate with Labi delays and expect them to pay attention to what we have requested by extending schedules and that there are more diners per table. But I don't understand your comments about the relationship you may have with President Sánchez, whom you will see from time to time, because we only receive desaires, desaires. Yeah, you take pictures of him. If we talk about the health and management of the pandemic, as we saw two weeks ago, no political towards you. There they are made up of the autonomous communities, including Euskadi, after the end of the state of alarm. And it won't be because you didn't do public rogatives and epistolaries, you'll remember. If we talk about employment and efforts for family recovery, there is the bargain around minimum living income. Mrs Mendia herself has put the adjectives to Mr Sánchez's Government's proposal, little less than a management order without material or human means. If we talk about the future, about reactivation, about European funds, you know, more of the same, castles in the air. The months go by without news and without realising anything. And if we're talking about investments, infrastructure, that's where we have the high-speed train hairpin. Less heart and more head, lehendakari. Dates, concrete commitments. In 2018, you will remember, Mr Rajoy's commitment, the People's Party government, was 2023; today we go for the year 2026 and adding. One year late for every year of Mr. Sánchez's government. A real record. Nice business I'd tell him we made the Basques with the PNV bet for the Frankenstein governments. Non-compliance in non-compliance. His partner, Mr Sánchez, is a ballast for the whole of Spain and for the Basques. A burden on Spain's economic recovery, political stability or international projection. And when all that is wrong in Spain, I have told you before and I repeat it again, we too in the Basque Country are wrong. It is your responsibility, your Government, your party, that Mr Sánchez be where he is. I remind you that this ballast is also capable of dragging you, that you will not be able to avoid the consequences of an complicity in which you receive desaire after desaire. Therefore, if you were the creators of Mr Sánchez's coming into power, perhaps you should go and contribute to the end of a regrettable cycle. The interest of the Basques is to put an end to Mr Sánchez's cycle of misappointments and desairs in Moncloa.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u30	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Iturgaiz, I might fall for the playful, but I don't think it corresponds to me. In any case, I still do not understand whether it is the PNV or the Government to which it is addressed. Look, I have always dominated the institutional relationship between the Basque Government and the Government of Spain, maintaining the same approach with both the People's Party and the Socialist Party. And this relationship mainly responds to three trunk elements: sectoral relations, Economic Concert and self-government. After almost a decade, my assessment is that in the first two sections, with more or less difficulties, we tend to move forward. In relation to the third, voluntary non-compliance has been a constant until January 2019, Mr Iturgaiz, when the Spanish Government, on that date, following a proposal by the Basque Government, approved for the first time a timetable for full compliance with the Statute of Gernika. By the way, I do not hide my concern that, one month after that agreement, you, with the impetus of Senator Iñaki Oyarzabal, tabled a motion in the Senate urging the Spanish Government not to accept the catalogue of transfers agreed with the Executive of Iñigo Urkullu. And I do not hide my concern that you here in the Basque Parliament solemnly stated that the Statute is fulfilled. Are you still saying the same thing? Look, my assessment of the current relationship with the Spanish Government is very conditioned by the daily fight against the pandemic. The dimension and relevance of this issue obliges us all, even with known discrepancies, to try to promote understanding and collaboration as much as possible. In that regard, I appreciate the progress that has enabled us to agree on four outstanding transfers in the Joint Commission on 10 May. It's a positive step. The shared objective, as reflected in the work schedule, is to be able to reach agreement on nine competences for October. Along with this, we also hope to be able to channel agreement and collaboration from the bilateral relationship, both in the management of direct aid and of European funds. Finally, I do not hide our disappointment at the difficulties in agreeing on the terms of the application of minimum living income in Euskadi, but we will continue to work towards this agreement. And I'm hoping that's how it's going to be. Our determination is to keep open the channel of the bilateral relationship with a genuine will to agree. The institutional responsibility is to continue to progress step by step in improving the living conditions of our society, and I will not fail in the effort, because the self-government, coexistence and well-being of Euskadi deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, the Congress of the Greys Martín to the President of the Mistho group, the non-lovers who have entered Cætan during the 18th invasion of May." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Mr Lehendakari, I am already telling you that my intention is not to criminalize children in Europe who are looking for a way to earn a living. They're not guilty that you paint them all but a paradise. That's why I'd like to focus on my question. Mr Urkullu, what plans do you have for the eight unaccompanied minor immigrants who will soon arrive in the Basque Country from Ceuta?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u34	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, to answer you, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, we have the same plans that we have for unaccompanied minors who are served by their competence by the outlaws and social services of all administrations. In addition, we are very interested in what may be the next draft law on social inclusion, with the reform of the GIR also, in which, in addition to unaccompanied minors, we are also concerned about what is the transit until the age of 23 in the JENA, in unaccompanied foreign youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u37	Mr Lehendakari, in the face of the avalanche of immigrants in Ceuta, Basque solidarity: let them come here to achieve their dream. And it is in the effort to promote a false reality where much of its fault lies. Because the truth is quite different, and success stories are anecdotes, even though their media are trying to show us to the young FP student or the Moroccan immigrant who is currently working in an NGO or workshop. The itinerary of these young people is usually another. They stay for a while in reception centres; some receive training, others do not; they benefit from our social care system, and they turn 18 and go out on the street, with little more than what is put. Attention, then condemn them to oblivion. That's right, then we report that there are neighborhoods that turn into ghettos. We pursue those who try to make a living by selling anything. We warn our children to be careful in certain areas, because no one guarantees their safety. You and I, because we know this is happening outside of your boonist speech. Food and shelter are not negotiable. No food and no shelter, there's no life. And if you don't have a job to get the money you need, if you don't have those opportunities you thought you had in El Dorado, looking for life in any way becomes a necessity. And that lack of opportunity is your responsibility, which is you who handle everyone's money. I am aware of the personal responsibility of each individual, but in this case even greater is the responsibility of those who offer what they cannot offer, not even to the citizens who voted for them. The one who pretends to hide from public opinion the harsh face of reality. They do not lose the opportunity to point with their accusing finger to those who say what we think as we think. To whom we defend legal and orderly immigration, and concrete actions at the place of origin. Vox doesn't feed the mobs. It does not encourage thousands of people without resources to cross the Sahara and to mallive in Algeria or Morocco, until they can embark on the European dream. It does not offer them El Dorado in a country where two out of five young people do not have a job. And it doesn't squander the resources of a whole continent, forcing its people to mallive where they really want to live, in their country. That is the responsibility of those who rule, of those who rule. You express and lie, then put your best face before your media, and settled matter. It is the pathetic game in which journalists also participate who do not hesitate to misrepresent our message, so that the public will say what we really do not say. Of course, these boys and girls you host in the Basque Country at a modest price are not criminals. You condemn crime for not offering them reasonable alternatives to the future. But everything goes with a good headline, for one vote. I remind you that many of these children are still wanted by desperate parents. You betray these people, many of them magnificent, no doubt. You talk, you promise and you don't, you fail. Then, they must seek life as they can, as you leave them. And there begin the problems that we all know are real: occupation, drug trafficking, crimes of greater or lesser gravity. All that we're not going to see in their media but that we all know what's going on. Lord Lehendakari, worry about your people, and order the migratory flows to the Basque Country. Offer only what you can truly offer, and stop selling goodism and propaganda. It is their responsibility to us and to them as lehendakari.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u38	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, a skillful tortender speech, unfair to the institutions, to the media, to the associations of the third social sector that work and work with unaccompanied minors, which hides the true foundation of what is their approach, the stigmatisation of unaccompanied minors. In any case, my personal, political and institutional position is to put forward ethical and humanitarian commitment. I consider it an obligation of public institutions to care for people who migrate in search of a new future. This is a basic commitment in both international and humanitarian human rights law. It is also a shared commitment in Euskadi between public institutions and social organizations. And, in fact, in January last year we signed the Basque Social Pact for Migration. Alongside this, migration is a global and structural reality. In this respect, we have proposed a common European policy based on co-responsibility and embodied in the Share proposal. For this reason, the position of the Lehendakari and the Basque Government will be to give priority to the basic premise of universal ethics, commitment to human rights, and to maximize collaboration between all institutions and associations in order to respond in the best way to this reality, as it did yesterday, with Aita Mari. Migrants in vulnerable situations, whatever the cause, have rights and obligations that must be guaranteed. Its reception has a democratic ethical dimension, which defines the capacity for solidarity and civilization of a society. You, with your attitude and words, are questioning the reception of young people and minors who have arrived and are in a situation of extreme need. Minors without any family reference, who in their countries had no options to develop a dignified life. It is true that we do not have the capacity to welcome all people, but we do have the capacity to develop a common reception policy and to welcome as many people as we can. I would not like to find myself, Mrs Martínez, in the situation of the Andalusian Junta, which is conditioned by the pressure of your party against basic humanitarian aid and a reception of people at serious risk of vulnerability. It has nothing to do with what you've said. Our commitment is to generate common policies and cooperation. And on the basis of the Share proposal put forward by Euskadi, an agreement has been reached for the reception of 200 young and young people currently in Ceuta. Euskadi has always been a solidarity society in the face of situations of suffering and has acted responsibly before realities of necessity and vulnerability. We are proud to be part of a united and responsible Basque people. A people that has been migrant for various reasons. I don't know if the part of society you represent has been seen in the texture of having to leave the state. We will not contribute to feeding discourses that show migration as a threat, that generate fear with false arguments and loaded with racist and xenophobic messages. We will act with discretion, unity, full responsibility and collaboration with the third social sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Seventh point on the theme list: "Interpation by Maddalen Orkiñena, members of the EH Collectors to the President, in order to assume more efficient measures in future crisis like COVID-19." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u41	Congressman, thank you. Good morning, everyone. Mr. President, good morning to you too. After 16 months from the start of this sanitary crisis, I really think it's absolutely necessary to examine and prepare for the future. It seems to me that citizens deserve this exercise from a strong degree of scientific, academic, scientific, scientific, scientific, and scientific, and political. Citizenship deserves that we raise the level of political debate, and it deserves that this debate is anchored on solid academic scientific bases, of experience, and not to act, as we have seen too often these months, according to the media convenience or by turning them back to the data. In these 16 months the institutional response has been too often a permanent exercise of crossing fingers so that this will pass quickly, without approaching the objectives set and without putting forward any structural plan for the future. Salt is structural, we have a great dependence on health, health supply, economy, and so on. And the answer can't be blaming the others. Zero autochritics and an indefinite mistake, but it won't allow us to make a diagnosis. We are, and we continue to be faced with a major challenge and it is our responsibility that the answer is up to it. And this requires leadership and another standard of government. The pandemic created by COVID-19 has shown us something, which must be answered at close quarters, to protect the citizens in a well and efficient manner. By order of the World Organization of Health, the report made by independent panels on COVID-19 has been remarked that it is necessary to investigate and reflect on what has happened in all the degrees of government. It seems interesting to me that, in all governments, they will be ready to deal better with a similar situation in the future. And it seemed to me as if we'd been on the screen for the last few weeks. But pandemia isn't over and not even her evolution. The goal is to slow down the transmission of virus and overcome it in the future. And for that, it's the most effective resource in our hands, for the moment. But one phase has been brought to an end, as it were, to this stage of observation which was placed at the cost of the alarm. But again, I repeat, we are in a state of care, and are faced with all sorts of precautions, even in the round of the covida's data, and even in the presence of the mills that this will leave us all to ourselves. It will be necessary, as has been said, to take measures from the view of a strong community which guards one another from the power of the people. It is vital, together with thinking how we need the future, how we can study and begin this modification from this moment. And it seems, Mr. Urkullu, that we now have an agreement, that we must understand that nothing will be the same on this new stage. 16 months ago, we said that this town had to get up and walk in a new direction. And so I emphasized it myself during the inquest. And now you admit that, if it's real, it's the situation you're getting on the last proposal in the history of the history of the future generation fund. During these long months, I think we must understand the complex mosaic of the lives of the people, and give them an articulation and certainty. For many years past, the threat of a pandermy was real, if he had insisted that it could be avoided by scientific communities, but these predictions were systematically ignored. I mean in the world. Now we've got a chance to find out what's been done, what's wrong, what's the issue and what's to be done in the future. I mentioned 15 days ago, in the Basque Country, experts from various disciplines recently fired the White Book of COVID-19. About 50 men's economy, laws, health, sociology, communication, three university experts from the University of Istanbul and Destruction and the University of Mondragon to face the future. I think it's a job to study and prepare, a job that comes from our community. That's the way I understand the neighborhood, the rest of it. As I said 15 days ago, the work which I most likely have been completed, adding other views, and adding the consent of this legislature; but I think there is a starting-point. The world's health organization says that in that independent panel it represents, this may be the last pandemy. But when he says this, he says very clearly that it takes a new system to answer the pandemies-that from this crisis we must learn and prepare for the next, clear ends and more means. And we wager on the strongest public and public policy when we talk of resources. This puts all of us in the form of a people to draw a strategy. When I say it as a people, I mean by giving a word to the collective force of this people, I mean the active participation of the greatest actors in this part of this country. It seems to me inevitable, because otherwise they can't be answered in an efficient manner, either by pandemia or by similar fits. We need a confirmation page, we're already late to respond to the mills and to the new ones that are to be created. The scientific community, the science, the academia, the company, the unions, the autonomous workers, the delegation of the first sector, the economics, the social economic institutions, the feminists, the communal movements, and, with that danger of forgetting others when they make a list, I'm sure I've forgotten others. And when we propose our involvement, we don't mean to be informed by these sectors, to communicate to those sectors what the Government will do, as we have to do now. If this is a collective effort, it must be created the property of the attempt, and it must be generous to divide the resources of power, to make the community generous, and to be correlative with its measures. We have to make a collective bet for transformation, as we said. As we have often said, if we do not change, if we do not take the necessary measures for modification, we will collapse. And as I said before, it seems, in theory at least, that we are now agreed. It'll just be a mistake to go back to your previous state. It is a mistake to keep logic up until now, when we must give priority to the health and security of the people, and that when we have to make it necessary. People, our health, our care, education, our research, our basic science, the vital conditions of people, the conditions of the world we live in and of the earth we live in, must be consistent with the care of this earth and the care of it. Thus, for instance, the origin of worthy employment, the employment of which the work of life will furnish us with means of development, cannot be founded on the intense and globalized economic growth of the present day. To return to the former state would simply be to ignore the conditions of this pandemy, and the conditions of this pandemy in its origin, the elements, and the elements. So again we are in danger of stumbling over the same stone. And to do all this we have seen in the 16 months to face the pandemia of Euskal Autonomy from Juridic, political, and legal point of view, unreproached and untractable difficulties. And to attain the challenge before us, it is absolutely insufficient, because we have not the legal police frame before us, because the sovereign tools have not and we want them to do this transformation, if we will or will, to guard the people and protect the people. And we don't have the instruments we need to do for the whole way we're going. All this, in our opinion, received the foregoing lines, and always the scientific, academic evidence, based on experience, is supposed to require an independent band of works which will begin to encourage all this. There are other countries where they're making auditories. We can give him the form we agree with. But the question, and the occasion of the interpelration of the day, is precisely this: In accordance with the teams of the Basque World, the future of COVID-19 and the like crisis, the more efficient measures to start an unprecedented collective exercise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, what you ask is in progress. A collective exercise without precedent from March 2020. Through this collective exercise, we have faced an unknown pandemy and a problem which has not been accustomed to the most efficacious measures of our life. Today, after 14 months, you propose to open a collective exercise. This collective exercise has been open for 14 months. It is open and active here, in all countries and throughout the world. The battle against virus is not over. We are not free from new waves, nor are we free from new variations of virus. This is not the time for laboratory exercises to represent what may happen in the future. We have a real problem here today and now. You always seem to forget the difficulties you're in now. Today, too, you look at the past and ask them to make an evaluation. And even to-day you look at the future, with a new standard of authority about it. I'll start looking at the past. The evaluation you ask of Pandemia is done, it's lasting, and it's public. You have been able to recognize this evaluation: day by day, in the reports published by the Medical Department, every week, in the reports published by the head of the Medical Department together with its team, in the occurrences which all the members of the New Year's members make in the Parliament, in response to all the questions or interpelations you have been presented to you during all these months, in the decrees published in the Twin Committee of Labi's Committee, or in the Biclers of Counsellation; in the informations made by the citizen, or in the interpelationships which I have made with you during the time of the day. This evaluation is done and we shared it. We're developing charity and charity organizations. And I'll give you some examples. The Technic Committee of Labi has conducted 43 meetings from September. Labi's Advision Committee, in total, has made 28 meetings. The health department has had constant communication with all the members of the legislature. The health department hears your contributions and answers your questions. The medical department and the other department are talking to the councils and the most damaged sectors. I took part in the 16 meetings of the presidents of the community, with 55 proposals proposed for consent. ♪ Everybody knows it ♪ ♪ ♪ Everybody knows it ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ Everybody knows it ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ I'm sure ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ ♪ I'm sure All this is an example of an unprecedented exercise to seek out direct agreements and solutions. At the same time, our practice to answer the pandemia depends on a continuous process of evaluation. It's public and it's transparent. In every new edition of the New Life Plan, the evaluation of what had been done in the past four months has been made: it was done in October and February, it will be done again in June. This evaluation is public. On March 13th, we published a year's memory of Pandemia. This document is public, you know it. We're continually updating this evaluation memory. We've never hidden the difficulties and problems we've experienced to answer the pandemia. However, as you ask me again, I will update the data I gave you two weeks ago, which is the best evaluation of the work we're doing. For example, the number of the tests made in 100,000 inhabitants: Euskadin, 54.400, Spain, 53.900. Tests and population mean: Euskadin, 2554,36, of 100,000 inhabitants, so as to make our structure 7,46%, when it was to be 4,64. That is to say, the community which does the most Diagnostic tests throughout the state. The inhabitants who have taken the first dose of the Czech: Euskadin, 48%; in Spain, 43%. The inhabitants who have completed the whole course of the scythe: Euskadin, 23%; Spain, 21%. People who have been sent to the hospital for 100,000 people: Euskadin, 696; Spain, 763. The people who have been ingreed in the ZUs for 100,000 inhabitants: Euskadin, 62; in Spain, 72. Poor people with the choruses: Euskadin, 5,9; Spain, 7%. Dead growth: Euskadin, 9%; Spain, 17%. What is the result of this evaluation? Our conclusion is that we must go on with the utmost severity in our work, to continue the improvement of these facts. Following the evaluation, Mrs Iriarte, we are collecting with all the Basque institutions the amount of economic resources intended to respond to the crisis of the covid. See, the direct aid and extraordinary budgetary expenditure of the Basque institutions amount to approximately EUR 2,190 million. In addition, fiscal measures, guarantees and guaranteed loans have been approved to help families and businesses, valued at an additional 2,920 million. These two years, therefore, the Basque institutions have mobilised approximately EUR 5.110 million. From the point of view of health assessment, and also referring to what you mentioned, the Department of Health has begun an independent assessment of the management of the pandemic, commissioned by the Basque Public University, Mrs Iriarte. This task was assigned to UPV/EHU six months ago. Some 20 working meetings have already been held involving professionals in the health and public health field in Euskadi who have been involved in the response to the pandemic. The objective of this evaluation is to draw lessons from an objective assessment. Thus, the following public policy evaluation criteria are being analyzed: relevance, effectiveness, efficiency, sustainability and transparency. This is the evaluation of the work carried out over these 14 months, a permanent, shared and comprehensive evaluation. And we have had a road map and we have a road map in a situation that we continue to maintain as is the health emergency one. We have not completed any phase, we have counted and we have a clear and public road map contained in the Bizi Berri plan. We have had an ongoing assessment of health and socio-economic performance. We have asked the Basque public university for an evaluation to draw lessons learned and advance the commitment to continuous improvement. I understand that ignoring this mention of the study commissioned by the institution that I chair and by the Department of Health to the public university of the Basque Country leads us to think that nothing is ever enough for you. Moreover, you, forgetting the urgency, demands and needs of the present, ask us on the basis of the model of future governance. Well, we'll keep working, I accept the challenge. However, you must accept that this exercise has to be based on reality; you avoid the legal limitations of consequences or what may also be of decisions. You elude the issue of the end of the state of alarm and its consequences, and I insist that we continue in a health emergency. You elude the reality of a legal alternative that could offer a response to a global pandemic, and I reiterate that this is not a local problem, but a global one, a problem that before or after is affecting us all equally. You are also eluding the fact that this Parliament is dealing with a proposal for a law on anti-vidic measures. You talk about promoting an unprecedented collective exercise, and why don't you start with yourself. This law or proposed law that anticipates the future is an opportunity for this collective exercise. This bill is a direct appeal to turn words into facts, discourse into realities, destructive criticism into constructive. So, Mrs. Irriart, this legal proposal is an opportunity for the collective exercise you ask for. And besides that, we'll accept and present the public health bill this year, and there'll be a new opportunity. This is the legislature for the parliamentary team interview and the real scope for harmony. This is the parliament for the present and the future contribution of the present and of the state we live in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u44	Thank you, Mrs. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u45	Thank you, Mrs. President. Mr. Urkullu, I don't abandon anything. No eldo nada. And if I do not exactly look at the state of these days which we now live in, as I have done in the last few days and weeks, it is because I think it is the important exercise I set forth. And what you've answered is not the exercise I'm giving you. And you understand what I'm saying, it's different that you don't want to do that. That you've made evaluations, that you do it every week, and that's what this parliament does. I do not deny that it has been done. What I'm saying is that an independent inspection made from outside seems necessary to me, as the most important nations do, to remove the focus from the outside, and to give some lines and instructions, as you say, to the University of the Basque Country with health, but to all the challenges of this people, and to the steps to which it is to proceed. So you understood me, but you decided to answer me differently. The law of Covid seems to me to be incapable of understanding anything. And to say that we're not working on it is an invention, Mr. Urkullu. You left here when I gave an explanation, why we abstained from this law, and saw the want of it. My team is working to contribute from different points of view to this law, and to make this law more suitable than it seems to us. But that has nothing to do with what I plan. I have already mentioned that giving an independent opinion compromises nothing, seeing and knowing only what we might improve. And of course you have to look back and go well. Of course, you have to balance to get ahead of you. I told you once more: "not to interfere with any injuries." I told you about the common diagnosis. But you, smoking, want to put me on the counter. And don't, Mr. Urkullu, don't you think. You say a few things here, but you often tell the Spanish Government that he does not commit and does not dispute, and that he avoids such disputes as are necessary to take precautions. Well, a little bit, that's what I'm saying. Is it possible, indeed, that a government should decide from time to time a decided decision should be made? And could we, as I said before, do for that concert of yours which you have so often spoken of? Because I think the leadership can't have a vertical control. Leadership is not like this, I don't understand it like this, as a result of a vertical command, it has to be able to create and subscribe to a field that generates synergies and capacity for people to collaborate and for people to commit to what is being done. I believe that that would, of course, bring much better results in a crisis situation such as the current one, and especially in the time of having to respond to many things. I, of course, do look to the future, because we have to look to the future, because there are challenges that if we don't look at them right now, we won't be able to answer them. I think we need to understand that we're at a disruptive moment, that we've got a lot of transitions that we're gonna have to knock and do these things without spending more time. I mean, we have to take this town on our backs, direct the direction, run the right way, protect the people. And I believe that to do so, in fact, a compartmental strategy would be hopeful for all the citizens on their way to the future. Besides, it would give us means to act with much greater force. The challenges we have are very great, and the compartmental strategy of protecting and modifying the people needs tools, the sovereign tools, because they are indispensable to take care of people, Mr. Urkullu.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Irriere, if you're going to order the Basque Country University to make an investigation, that's not independent. Now, if you're talking about some professor of the University of Basque College, that's independent. Look, you don't sell anything or sell nothing, and you've made up your mind about it. If you like, I'll remember what you've suggested to me so far: You've defended your entire curfew in last year's spring to the point of maintaining economic activity, I'd rather not remember what you accused me of blaming me for doing so. You were opposed to the elections of Euscala under 20, 100,000 people. And then, for instance Durangon, you organized a referendum with 200 cases. You rebelled against opening industrial and economic activity. Trade, host, and culture, were opposed to reopening, though afterwards you say other things. You rebelled against the resurrection of previous education. You criticized the Covid fund or the funds for corporations. You didn't want to take this year's budget, and on the other hand, you accepted the budget of the Spanish government. You criticized the Euscal proposition of the funds of Europe, and on the contrary, you accepted the strategy which the Spanish Government introduced. You criticized the social proportions of the Basque institutions because they were not enough, and on the other hand, you accepted the minimum income of Spanish government. You always underestimate eucalyptic institutions. Front, vertical leader, shared ruler. I have already explained to you what is the share of government: Communion of the people in the government, collaboration. we who care for the administration, or for the government. otherwise there is here a parliamentary law, that is to say, of the one or the most prominent of the Basque citizens. Let us be clear, you have not supported any measures by the Basque Government. You have used the pandemic as a bold weapon against the Basque Government. I do not remember a word of encouragement, a gesture of support, a minimal understanding of the most serious health problem this country has suffered in recent times, and I will not even mix it with the accusations and claim of reprobation to the Sailburu. His real collective exercise has been to criticize everything, yes, disguised by the discourse of the objective of the documents delivered. But the reality is that your actual contribution is empty and so it will be written, Mrs. Iriarte. I've read your 123 measure and your proposal document more than once. I haven't found any new ones or contents or suggestions in this document. First, from 123 measures, only 24 people go to health. We're in the greatest health attack we've ever met, and only 19% of the proposals respond to health priority. More than this, there are 17 of these twenty-four proposals running. Five of them have nothing to do with our jurisdictions, and two of us have thought it inappropriate. This is not an alternative model, it is only a cliché that can be applied over and over again. There's no builder, no news, no reporter. Anyway, I won't lose hope. The door is open. Yesterday we had an example, and we agreed on a different proposal to help the sector damage to COVID-19. This is the way. I invite you to cooperate in the legal proposition that is being published. And this proposition is an opportunity which will also be the bill of public health. I repeat, this month the Federation of Associations for the Defense of Public Health has released its report. The Government Quality Institute of the University of Gothenburg has made its study public. This month the Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services has released its evaluation report, and Euskadi is at the head of the State in terms of the quality and delivery of social services. I mean, with all this, it's all right? No, not at all. And that's why we don't like ourselves. We know that we must continue to improve, because there is always room for improvement and opportunity. It doesn't mean that being a critic doesn't want to be a builder. So we are also prepared to receive your help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Eight points on the theme list: "The question is that the parliamentary members of the American American team, Carmelo Barrio Barroja Barrojal, a member of the Ciudads, have been made to the President about the hours of the host and the reduction of the teams." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u49	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to all and to all, lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Lehendakari, lately you often appear before the media on Thursdays before the plenary, and you usually make things happen. That is why we are now asking you to make clear in this parliamentary session what is going to happen with the timetables and with the groups, and to do so here today. You know that from different sectors the Basque Government has been asked, in particular you, as the health situation is improving, to start extending the hospitality hours, the number of people who can sit together at the table or the fact that they open up txokos, gastronomic societies, as is already the case in some neighbouring community. You are most responsible for the Bizi Berri plan, the president of the Labi, and you can tell us what you are going to do, what measures you intend to take in connection with that release. One thing to say: the hotels in Euskadi, of course, go down the blind until three hours earlier than in neighbouring communities and without any margin for certain services. That's what they've shown. And that's why we ask you, lehendakari: When do you intend to make the decision to unlock the restrictions of hospitality and gastronomic societies in the Basque Country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u50	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Barrio, I do not appear on Thursdays before the plenary session. I deal with the media, as you or any of the parliamentarians and members of the government who can be approached by the media professionals who are here at the entrance of Parliament. And second question, I'm not the one who decides. Whoever decides is the Labi in his case. And it is I who decides to sign the decree, yes, but on the basis of the criteria and opinions of the Technical Scientific Commission of the Advisory Council of Labi. And this is still pending for the next few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u53	Let's see, lehendakari. I'm sure you'll be able to tell us something, you'll have some judgment, you'll have been studying the subject. You preside over that body and you will be told and discussed before those decisions are taken, Mr Lehendakari. Cantabria, Castilla y León, Navarra, La Rioja already open until one in the morning, there are places where you can share table more than four people, gastronomic societies open. Mr Lehendakari, it seems like the Labi never to many people in this country, to hoteliers, users, to members of gastronomic societies. The sectors concerned denounce the aggravation that exists with the restrictions here and the lesser restrictions in other places, in border areas such as Miranda, Haro or Castro Urdiales. We are attending a collection of disagreements between the sector and the Administration, and there have been several examples. Now is the time to improve the work landscape of many tourist, hospitality and recreational establishments in this country. Mr Lehendakari, the Labi is important, but this Parliament is more important. That is why I think we are asking you what you are going to propose on Monday in the Labi regarding the questions of timetables, of groups in our hotels, what you are going to propose in relation to gastronomic societies. Two hours of margin is a long time. And it is a lot of money that is at stake for hospitality and tourism. As is also the increase in the number of diners from four to six, or more than four. It is being done elsewhere, lehendakari, and it is also approaching normality, as we will try to do. Hospitallers have complied with, complied with health safety standards and measures and committed themselves from the outset to control. And the hospitality has not been the focus of contagion. Or do you say otherwise? I guess they've got it checked out, too. That is why, lehendakari, what steps will the Labi take on Monday in relation to this issue? There are a lot of people waiting on this issue. Tell us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u54	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. As much as you have endeavoured to impute to me a responsibility that I do not have, I remind you, Mr Barrio, that we are still in a health emergency declaration. Health emergency. As much as the state of alarm has fallen, we are in a health emergency. In relation to the hospitality, trade and tourism sector, the Government has carried out a comparative analysis of the different autonomous communities. And the conclusion is clear. Look, regulatory measures, trade fairs and schedules have been similar to those of other communities in homogeneous health situations. Hotel closures have been longer and more intense in other communities. Let us not say anything in the countries of our environment, which, curiously, some of those affected put as a model of road map. And Euskadi has been the community with the most institutional economic support to the hospitality, trade and tourism sector. 179 million in additional direct aid and consumer incentives. The Technical Scientific Commission has had the opportunity to evaluate a letter from the hospitality associations, which is the same as you have put forward. First observation: The closures to the hospitality have been applied in all the communities and in all the countries of our environment, even with more severity than here. Second, the scientific evidence and the international and data of the Basque Government in relation to interior spaces, such as those corresponding to the areas to which we refer, confirm the risk of indoor interaction with prolonged stays and intermittent use of the mask. The implementation of the measures is aligned with scientific evidence, Mr Barrio, and with the recommendations and guidelines of international and state institutions. I invite you, I invite you all to read the literality of the orders communicated by the Minister of Health, published mainly on 14 August and 28 October, or the study of the Government of Navarre on the impact on the interiors of the hotels, or documents of synthesis of different international studies. We will continue to analyse the situation day by day, taking decisions with balance and taking measures supported by the recommendations of the health authorities. Mr. Barrio, there's a time in decision-making and there's a way. When it's relevant. The cumulative incidence rate was 543 on 26 April and is currently 210. In one week 50% of the population will already have received a first dose of the vaccine. We're meeting expectations, and the situation is improving, but we're still in a health emergency. However, the decline in the incidence of the virus has been slowed down throughout the State. The end of the state of alarm has prematurely annulled preventive measures. It is key not to make decisions prematurely, especially in the spaces that the reports point out as high risk, closed places, with lower ventilation, meeting with different people, and using non-permanent masks. In any case, I repeat, the Technical Scientific Commission of Labi will give its opinion, and on Monday we will take the decisions in a shared manner. And not only as far as the hospitality sector is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "Introduction, research, Casanova Alonso, EH Collectors on economic development, patience, and environmental chief's intention of encouraging electric motion" Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u57	Good morning, everyone. We can say that it's one of the main discussions of these times. And we may also say that this is the case, because, after all, many of the inclinations, doubts, disputes, and debates that are contained in this consideration of motion. The need for the new mobility model is in the mouth of everyone, because it's connected with the most important movements of the world that are happening at this moment. For example, the necessity and challenge of fighting and debonizing against climateal change, of a divine revolution and transition, of a digital and technological revolution. Again, mobileness is connected with a number of geopolitic struggles which are increasing and increasing. If a witness of the importance of movement, for example, the importance given to this subject in the history of the history of history, in the plans, in Europe, in the State, and in the EAE. I don't think it's central, but it's very important that two PERTEs, the hydrogen, and the auto-process, are related directly to the motion pattern, and a PERTE, which defines the suffering cities. The several elements of EukadinNext agree, either directly or indirectly, with the motion pattern. And the RIS3 strategy conducts our research and development lines as far as the advanced manufacturer is concerned and makes bets connected with energy usage and mobileism. We could also mention the law of the climate change, the Paris treaty, the 2030 Power strategy, the former law of climate change, etc., and so on. We certainly have times of change around in motion, or rather we are being placed in front of a change of time. A simple answer, or symplification of this or this new evolution or pattern, would say that the new motion passes through the electronization. And this is true, but only partly because it will be electrocution, no doubt, one of the axes of a new and bearable model of motion. But we have to go beyond it, it's not just electricity. Even if electricity fills the central paper, we must define how people are moved, how the primary things and merchandise and merchandise are moved. And we have to define how to arrange our cities and our transports to be tolerable, and to put an end to some kind of vehicleary pattern of cities and roads and means of transports today, and to place people in the centre. So we have to set up batteries for mobiles, but we have to fill ourselves up to make a deep reflection and deal with the mills that this time requires us to deal with. I don't know, two weeks ago, we made a deal about gigaphacera, and it's clear that if we've been talking about motion for the past few years, it's only possible that one of the trends or flaws may be another, even in ours, a very logical matter for the weight of our productive model, to concentrate on the industrial challenge of electrocution. It's true, electrocution is a challenge and a choice for our industry. And we have to adapt, and it has to be there for the proper adaptations. But we also have to implant and develop a new model of motion in our society. It's not just the things you do here being tied up with motion for electrocution and new model, but we also have to improvise that new pattern in ours. It's not just enough to use electric cars in other places. We have to use cars and buses and other electrical transports here too. I'm going to focus on cars in this first instance, but it's the main thing that is that the new electrical motion and moving activity does not go through the model today and the number of cars, but that the car has a new and restricted role in our transport system. But it's true that there will be spaces for the private car, and they will continue to have cars. And our bet is that all those cars are electric. The electric car has some problems in its development. And it's already commonplace, it's more than once discussed here, the boss, the price, the charge, and the autonomy. The autonomical problem is getting better slowly as a technical problem. Responsible governments have created private and active policies to pay for the price by subsidents. And as for the loading network, there's a challenge that's very connected with the Administration paper. And there, protagonism belongs to public administration, in this case, to get rid of that network. Because we're in a very bad spot here, as far as the electrical phone is concerned. And I'm sorry to say this. I'll get back a chart that's used in another discussion. Electromobility indicator. Here we find that the Spanish State is at the tail of the European Union. Even if we leave out the Netherlands and Norway, which obviously have conditions that we are not going to be able to replicate here, but countries such as Germany, France, the United Kingdom, the average of the European Union itself is far above the Spanish state in terms of the electromobility indicator, which measures both the penetration of the electric car and the deployment of the charging network. And if we see that the Spanish State is behind on Europe, we see that in the average of the Spanish State the Basque Country is still below. We are growing, we will be told, yes, like investment in R & D or innovation. We're growing, but the others are growing a lot more, which means that the distance is widening. And the latest indicators of the first quarter of 2021 indicate that it is growing modestly in electrification in the Spanish State and the Basque Country, but it is growing in a decisive way, and giving the impression that it is giving a definitive start to the electric car, until it reaches quotas between electric and electric plugs greater than 15% in the European Union, pure electrics in 8 and 9 %, figures that duplicate or triple those that we have here. Faced with this, the Basque Government has launched a leading initiative in the field of automotive, which is the Renove plan. A renewed plan that I believe is a compendium of all the problems that this Government is manifesting when it comes to doing things. Firstly, with problems of implementation, because it is already being criticized by the beneficiaries, in the sense that their presentation has been anticipated and what has caused it is precisely the paralysis of sales. Secondly, it is a scarce funding plan; with just five million, no dependence can be changed or generated. And thirdly, it does not respond to any strategy of environmental sustainability or betting by the electric car. In fact, it is a plan that does not affect the purchase of the electric car, being parallel to the Moves plan of the Spanish State and contemplate this incompatibility with other autonomic plans. In practice, what the Basque Government is doing is something new: it is subsidizing only polluting cars. It is only subsidizing the purchase of petrol and diesel cars, which is not being done by leading countries in the automotive industry such as France, Germany or the Spanish state itself. On the other hand, we have a strategy, an Integral Electric Mobility Plan, developed in 2018 and with effect until 2020. I suppose it is in the process of being renewed, but it was already too unambitious a plan at the time, the objectives of which have been met in half. And that has become radically obsolete, not only because it has already completed its official term, but because the technological development and deployment of the electric car in the last three years has exceeded the most positive forecasts that could be contemplated there. Therefore, as this trend is going to worsen, as over the next few years we will see how a real match in the price is going to be given, by the lowering of the cost of the production of batteries, between electric cars and thermals, with that reduction of the electric car, which is going to be cheaper with aids even before it is reduced in real terms of production.The year 2050 will come out a Euro 7 regulation, which is probably even more restrictive and leaves virtually out of play all engines that do not have at least a plug-in hybridization, not even a conventional or light hybridization. As all of this is going very fast and we are falling behind and behind, we ask the Government, first, to explain to us today, through this inquiry, what it is doing and, probably, then, what we are asking of it is to make an effort to sort out all the challenges that arise from the needs of a new, more sustainable mobility that passes through electrification, but also through the bet on public transport, shared transport and light transport. We think it's necessary. We do not know whether we are working on it, nor do we know what deadlines. That's why we're doing this interpellation today. A new strategy, a comprehensive strategy for electric mobility that envisages the development and deployment and support of the purchase, acquisition and use of the electric car. It also proposes with dates, deadlines and budgets the development of a charging network that can sustain this increase in the use of the electric car; it proposes the complete electrification of all public fleets, both of cars and of vehicles that can be electrified; it clearly marks the distribution and the urban fleets, also as indissolubly associated with electrification; and it also raises the use of public means, the electrification of the entire public transport fleet and the bet on the use of bicycles, both conventional and electric. Dates, objectives and budgets for this, Mrs Tapia?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u58	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, among the different themes you have mentioned, I think I would make them three distinct columns. On the one hand, the patient mobile plan belongs to Mr. Arrian in our government plan, and I don't want to get him out of the way. We'll do our report, but it's the same responsibility to introduce you. Secondly, you mentioned the electrocution to be used in all public cars, and you know very well that it is contained in the law of the Mystergetic capacity. In this Comrade, he appears in the law which was admitted. In order to get all the administrations started, not just Christmas, City Hall, etc., there's a fund going on. And the third column, I'd say, is connected with industry and innovation, and is looking at energy and electricity. And in that sense, I'm going to begin with it, because somehow it's connected to our department. I would like to comment that already in September 2019 we started working from SPRI with the Basque Energy Agency and the Energy Cluster, carrying out an analysis of how we were in electrical mobility from an industrial point of view and also from a technological point of view, to renew the EnergyBasque Strategy in terms of its application in R & D+I. Why? To try to anticipate the public and private actions that we had to launch in an intense way. Hence, as you say, we analyze the seven main functions analyzed and programmed in a vehicle, let's say, traditional, in a vehicle from which you or I can acquire and where the difficulties were and how they affected our business fabric, our productive fabric, all the opportunities and difficulties that arose, and many aspects were analyzed, starting from the batteries, ending with the new materials to be used. If we focus on the electric vehicle, we detect three areas where, on the one hand, there were difficulties for our productive fabric and, on the other, opportunities where we had to work. From the point of view of the electric vehicle itself, we considered the hybrid plug-in vehicle – above all, because the other one we consider no longer a transitional vehicle – the pure battery-based electric or the fuel cell electric, also giving it that possibility of hydrogen in this aspect, still very incipient and with little experience, but we would also have to consider it. With regard to the recharge infrastructures to which you referred, of course what recharge points we need, what characteristics, more slow loading, more rapid loading, but also to this we referred to what processing centre needs we needed, those load storage systems how we put them in place, what substations, what network modifications we needed for this. And we also considered, beyond pure automotive, how we could use these electrical traction systems in railway systems or in other systems that could also acquire and operate them. According to this, what we observe is that, of course, we had experience in those charging infrastructure equipment and our companies could be well located there, and that the slow charging system was already developed by several local companies, as you well know, and also the fast charging system from the Ibil company. There are also other typologies, but we had that feature already quite well defined. As for the areas and trends of technological development, where our opportunities were and where we could make the biggest leap, how we could contribute from a future perspective. First of all, of course, from battery upgrades. As we have commented, 15 days ago we were talking about the Basquevolt initiative. Our technological capacity in new batteries, in solid state batteries could be a differential element, but nevertheless, the experience we also had in current lithium ion batteries could be an element to be deepened. Electric motors, I think we have a lot to do there, because we haven't developed it. At this time all electric traction of the vehicles that are in operation does not have any engines that are developed in Euskadi. We know how to make electric motors, we have a lot of experience in them, how we can apply that experience in order to be able to use it in electric and hybrid vehicles that can, of course, have a much more important penetration capacity in the market than the current one. And what role can smart power networks play? We were thinking of them for the absorption of all renewable energy, also in the event that at the time when most of the vehicles we are using are electric or plug-in hybrids, they are loaded at night; what needs the network will have and how we will be able to work. Defined those aspects, of course, what was analyzed are the industrial capabilities we had, what opportunities we had to detect and how we were going to work. As you well said, in the PCTI 2030, in addition to identifying the important areas of the intelligent industry, cleaner energies, personalized health and opportunity niches, you will remember that there are three transversal tractor initiatives, and one of them is precisely that of electric mobility that accompanies healthy ageing and the circular economy. Both electric mobility and the circular economy, the intelligent industry and clean energy are the areas of action on which we need to deepen from a technological point of view at the moment. Where we've been working and where great opportunities can be seen. Well, wireless charging, fast charging with storage, individual charging points, but also collective or integration of a domestic pure electric vehicle charger counter for integrated demand management. These are the aspects in which work is already beginning and have been defined as relevant. With regard to the development of cargo-related services, communication systems and services that allow us to manage mobility efficiently, to precisely adapt demand management to the network we currently have, and to adapt recharge points to the environmental conditions that can be extreme at certain times when those recharge points are on the street. We need to adapt distribution networks, as I have told you before with new transformation centres, introducing all smart power networks, integrating renewable energy sources, of course, and developing new components for electrification. Why? Because right now our entire component industry is very focused on the traditional vehicle and we need to make the transition, to start producing new elements. And among those elements, of course, in addition to the battery pack, of those cells that we were working on, we need much lighter structures, we need to improve those light structures; structural components that do not exist today; characterize and optimize precisely the life of the batteries; the way of recharge, and introduce power electronics that allow us to do so with that new generation of batteries. But I insist on that electric motor we weren't working on, that traction system will allow us to enter a market niche we weren't in. Finally, introduce technological solutions already with connected vehicle, intelligent vehicle, solutions associated with urban mobility, that is, introduce the entire electronic and intelligence part into the system. In addition to cross-cutting actions that we need in training and training, in dynamism and networking among all, entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, workers, workers, as well as the most scientific-technological part. We must be present at the international level, of course, and introduce aspects of non-technological innovation such as the regulation to which you referred, which is going to be very important – it is already important at the moment – but in the future, and the deployment of global aid programmes to introduce electric mobility in all aspects, making an appropriate transition but certainly making us move towards that objective that we have set ourselves. With initiatives, let's say, relevant – which, as you also said, are reflected in the Next Generation document – some of which I would like to point out. First of all, the Basquevolt we talked about, and I'm not going to repeat myself. The Mobil initiative in the territory of Gipuzkoa, where we talk about industrial and technological development, capacity and infrastructure, electrical and communication traction and connected vehicle and autonomous vehicle. And, in addition, the way it's going to be manufactured intelligently, using the smart factory. It will also work in the territory of Bizkaia in the production process of the new vehicle. Therefore, we have different strategic initiatives already underway after having done that reflection, by the hand of the energy cluster, by the hand of SPRI and by the hand of the EVE. We'll continue on the second one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u61	Thank you very much, Mrs Tapia. What happens is that I'm sorry that we haven't felt very well in understanding the approach of what I was asking you today. The truth is that, unlike what happens on other occasions, your response has seemed extremely interesting to me, and I think it brings a lot of relevant information, but I think it has not been focused on those aspects on which our group was conducting this inquiry. I think it is very important to take advantage of the opportunity, which is, in turn, an obligation that this transformation of mobility entails for the industrial sector and, therefore, to seek to maintain leadership, in this case, yes. You talk many times about leaderships that only exist in your documents, but in this case there is obvious leadership in the manufacturing of components and in other aspects of the automotive auxiliary industry, and it seems to me that it is mandatory to develop the capacities that exist, update them and adapt them to the requirements that the new mobility will ask us, among them, all those of electrification. But, in short, I bring back this graph, because what we wanted to talk about today was this. I mean, it's not about where electric cars are made, we can make all the electric cars we want and not have one just running around our streets. It is true that this is a cross-cutting issue. You could tell me no, ask Mr. Arriola. But, well, I could have questioned him, too. I have questioned you as responsible for the EVE, for example, as responsible for the Climate Change Act, the Sustainability Act, the Comprehensive Mobility Plan that was made in your department. So it is cross-cutting, but I was talking to you about one of the facets, which was not the industrial facet, but was the facet of practical application of solutions of electric and sustainable mobility for our country, among which there are several related to public and collective transport, with other forms of mobility and also with the car. And what the car requires right now – it is true, that we repeat it over and over again – is to electrify all the cars that exist, that is, all the cars that exist today, yes. That cars that continue to circulate after an in-depth review of the mobility system that gives centrality to the public and to the shared, those that remain, that are electric. And that requires a proactivity on the part of the Government, because it does not believe that in other countries they are not getting ahead. Today, or yesterday, the President of Seat said that aid in the Spanish State is not enough. There is a good Moves plan in terms of its financial resources, and he complained that there was a lack of agility in the granting of such aid. Why does the president of Seat complain? Because you already know that the Seat cars are going to sell them in the Spanish state. Just like the French government when it supports the electric car knows that in France preferably they will buy French cars and in Germany preferably German cars. All these plans are made with an intention, which is that of the development of the industry, because we have two end-product car factories, but above all we are more cross-cutting manufacturers of components for the whole industry. But what we can't say is that they electrify them. And we here manufacture electric cars, but let them electrify them and make plans for the development of the electric car them. The electric car needs two fundamental support from the governments: one, purchase support, and two, support the deployment of a charging network at different power levels, as you proposed, that makes having an electric car not an adventure. Today the electric car, although this is not usually said, is already cheaper than the conventional car, but throughout its entire life cycle. In the same way that we have to measure the emissions of an electric car also in its production process, we also have to measure expenditure in its consumption. It's already cheaper, but it obviously has an initial investment that's a barrier. You can't supplement the Moves plan, but you could support, for example, by giving cargo bonds or, for example, by subsidizing more than the domestic installation of the cargo point, for example. And then there is the question of the network, and what has to exist is a network deployment plan that makes compatible the volume of vehicles that you want to sell and the levels of vehicles that you want to sell, with the possibility that the vehicles have smoke. And that was the question or that was the fundamental question we wanted to ask him. Indeed, along with this must come a plan from which the foundations are outlined and laid, but it must be fine-tuned in terms of its concreteness and its temporal horizon. He said again that in the Next Generation, for example, there are two projects related to the installation of cargo networks, but one for ambulances and another for Gipuzkoa, one of a million and another in a slippery way. What this Government has to have is an approach to how many electric cars there are going to be at the end of the decade, what we're going to do to get those cars running and what we have to do as a Government to have a charging network that will allow it to do so. That's where we're going, and that's what we're planning. I repeat, I thank you for the explanation I have given, and I think it is indispensable to adapt to what comes to us in industrially, but to develop the development of the electric car here in a more extensive model of motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u62	Mr. Casanova, thank you. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u63	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Yes, Mr. Casanova, from the beginning, I have somehow tried to consider the answer our hundred industrials require, for I think it is necessary to begin the other. If not, what you were saying will happen to us: In the energy oil case, we have industrial sector and we don't have where to put it. Let's hope it's the other way around, where we put it, but not industrial sectors. Let's hope we get both of them this time. It's true that our goal is to be, like a fairy, the other administration as the Esquilling Organization of Esquill and Power, to have cars, buses, trucks, or whatever it may be, electrified as much as possible. For at this moment it is true that it is easier in towns, for instance, to have motor-cars or motor-cars, perhaps it is difficult for us to walk along the long path. But what are the exact subsidies and enterprises? You mentioned them yourself. And I'll start with the Renove plan. The Renove plan is not the star plan. It is simply a help plan that we have at the moment, so that our vehicle fleet – it is the oldest or one of the oldest that exists at the moment – is renewed and emits less CO 2 - No, no, no, Not zero, it's true, but we're reducing CO emissions. 2 - No, no, no, Electric vehicles. You know the Moves II. It still has a budget of 4 and a half million euros, aimed at various things, not only to acquire electric vehicles such as passenger cars, trucks, vans and so on, but also to implement recharge infrastructures, so it is already there, to the system of lending electric bicycles and to all kinds of actions in sustainable mobility. The Moves III, 18 million euros. In this case, in addition to purchasing electric vehicles, it goes to charging infrastructure. The aid programme for investments in transport and efficient mobility, EUR 2 million for the purchase of mopeds, heavy vehicles and mobile equipment. In this case, electric vehicles which are not eligible for other types of aid, Moves II or Moves III are also included. In addition, aid of up to 100 % is installed for charging facilities in collective garages. The electric bicycle is powered. There are energy studies for fleets or unique projects in cities or in certain areas. Energy sustainability audit programmes are also under way right now, and I am not going to stop at that. Also the PAVEA plan, for the renovation of the mobile park with more efficient and less polluting vehicles, for, in this case, electric light vehicles yes, but also plug-in hybrids and non-plug-in hybrids, even for hydrogen-powered or gas-powered vehicles. And gasoline or diesel vehicles that emit below a certain amount. We have the e-taxi project, where the number of electric vehicles is increased, the acquisition of taxis is encouraged, in this case, only electric. The implementation of car sharing systems is supported, only electrical as well. General priority is given to the purchase of electric vehicles in all public administrations and in all enterprises. All invitations to tender issued by public administrations, including electric vehicles, are made available, and all municipal ordinances consider it appropriate to introduce charging points for these electric vehicles. I therefore consider, as you have said, the issue of charging infrastructure to be one of the key elements in order to be able to carry out an intensive electrification. And we have to keep in mind that, for example, in a city where there are a multitude of electric vehicles, where most people park those cars on the street, how we are going to respond to cargo needs, because there are no collective garages, and all charging systems have to be on the streets. I think it is not a minor element, which we have to face in a city, and it is no longer about technology or aid, but about how we locate them, what priority is given to them and how we are going to proceed to carry out these kinds of actions, in addition to the long-distance ones, of course, which will also have a need, but which will be more associated with how a battery can actually be installed that can respond to that recharge system. We therefore have some programmes already under way. We know at least some of the problems we have to deal with, some of the difficulties, and we will put these kinds of actions in place to take on the difficulties we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The tenth point in the subject list: "The question, Jon Hernandez Hidalgo, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos-Ituerda Unideda, made by the head of Economism and Environmental Division, the development of industrial crisis and economics, of patience and environmental development." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u65	Thank you. Mrs. Chief. In recent months, we have witnessed many layoffs by very important companies in the Basque industrial fabric: Alestis, Aernova, Tubacex... You know him perfectly well. In addition, there is uncertainty in several important sectors. And yet we still do not know the plans of the Basque Government, as you have not yet presented the 2021-2024 Industry Plan. What we do know is that the government is committing significant amounts of money to some projects, which have been discussed this morning –Basquevolt, the hydrogen corridor... – without subjecting them to a parliamentary debate, and with, in our view, a lack of transparency, since it has not even presented something similar to studies of economic or industrial viability. For the hundreds of people who have lost their jobs, you go late with the Industry Plan. We believe that it is urgent to strengthen the industrial fabric, but to do so by protecting jobs, while at the same time making the necessary changes to guide the economy to the requirements of the future. That is why we want to ask you: What actions does your department plan to reverse the actual destruction of fabric and industrial employment in our country?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u66	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u67	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Hernández, as you said, we are already in the final stages of drawing up the Industrial Development and Internationalization Plan 2021-2024, which we trust will come to this House before the end of June so that it can be analysed. However, despite the fact that this plan is not yet complete, we continue to implement the 2020 plan. The aid programme that has been launched this year, I believe, is ambitious in terms of the number of programmes, in terms of actions and in terms of the financing of all these actions. More than 63 programmes are under way with €423 million. I think they're relevant amounts. However, there are companies in difficulty, of course. You've made reference to some of them. Maybe we know them by their greatest dimension. But there are other smaller ones with the same or greater difficulties as a result of the pandemic, with which we have also tried to launch ad hoc actions that were not in any of the industrial plans, nor in which we were currently working, nor in the previous one. Well, with a boost to teleworking throughout the covid era, support for specific research and development, with postponements and returns of aid already under way, with a new programme associated with the covid pandemic, the Bideratu Covid, with postponements in rents, with programmes to cover surpluses in the agri-food sector and with Renove programmes and, of course, with all the guarantees we have put in place. So, I think we're working at that time. And yes, then I will give you some more data, but, of course, those projects that we were talking about –Basquevolt, the hydrogen corridor and so on – are currently being worked on intensively, with their economic feasibility studies – don't worry about it – but they are still presented uniquely and exclusively in the Next Generation. We're working to make it a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u69	Yeah. Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The truth is that on the previous industrial plan either it has not been fulfilled or there is total obscurantism, because, of course, it has become very difficult for us to make an assessment of the plan because there is a great deal of data missing. Mrs Tapia, we cannot afford the luxury as a country of losing the opportunity of a single job. This expression will sound to you because it's yours from last weekend. There are hundreds of jobs that have been lost only in the last few months in the industry. You will agree with me, then, that we have allowed ourselves too many luxuries in recent months. And it seems to us that the Basque Government has not taken up this matter too much. We have seen her, instead, in the last few days, occupied in political covetousness. And the truth is that we don't really know if the now so popular Corrugated Azpeitia enters into your government's industrial plans, because we don't know them yet. But we also do not know whether the companies that are already destroying jobs have room for such plans, because we have not seen their Government do anything about it. You, in the face of a question from my parliamentary groupmate David, said that the Basque Government neither leads nor stops leading, that it is the companies themselves that know what their needs are. It's the market, folks. We do not share this philosophy and policy, Mrs Tapia. Uncertainty is taking over many companies and, above all, many staff, many workers. Therefore, we ask you to make an industry plan, to present the industry plan and also to put the workers in the centre. We think you're leading your department at Teleberri's stroke. The parliamentary groups learned of the plans either by the press or by media put on stage. We believe that an industry plan is needed that not only benefits business. What is at stake is to ensure the economic and life future of the people of the country. And for that the public administration must be the one that takes the lead, the one that has the leadership. Therefore, a policy that does not fit that expression that it is only the companies and only the companies that are somehow going to lead the economy and, therefore, in our opinion, also the future of Euskadi.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u70	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u71	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Hernandez, I have told you that we are in the process of drawing up this plan and that it is in its final phase. However, Plan 2020 is still in force. All the aid that we have put in place is precisely to help, to accompany, to assist and to try to find solutions, if there are any, for those companies in difficulty and to find solutions for those who want to start new investments, new jobs, new contracts and who face some difficulties. That's our goal. Leadership, in what sense? In the sense of what the accompanying tools are going to be, how we have to do it, what the situation is, as Mr Casanova said about the electric vehicle, for example, where the difficulties lie. And we work it in a public-private way, obviously. But without the private sector telling us what their capabilities are, where the difficulties are, where the gaps we have to cover, it would certainly be very adventurous for the Administration itself to be the one to lead each and every one of the processes. I believe that we must do this together, work together and establish the mechanisms that the Administration has identified as necessary. From that point of view, some of the differential elements of this aid plan that we have put in place before even approving the industrial plan are linked to some elements that we have encountered during the pandemic, such as, of course, all those supply chains that have been able to break as a result of the fact that the suppliers are away, we are still suffering it in the automotive sector, and how to try to have some closer suppliers so that those companies do not have to suffer those stops at some point. Or to ensure that some companies in the same sector can work together, that mergers, acquisitions can be made, whatever is necessary to make a much stronger productive fabric. But, of course, there are plans, they have been, and you have no doubt that, like all the other plans, industry will also be referred to this House, because every time we approve it we bring it here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "Interregative, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, a member of the Basque Groups of Césula, a member of the Ciudadans, a member of economics and of the board of Ogas, a few of the national Boards of Markets and Companations of Euscadinations." Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u73	Thank you very much, Madam President. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Azpiazu, Mr Pedro María. A few days ago, a resolution was issued by the CNMC, the National Commission on Markets and Competition, which is not only the regulator of certain markets, but is also the independent authority responsible for enforcing the rules on the defence of competition, which is so important, not only for free competition in markets as fair play, but also, from a deeper point of view, fundamental to the development of a social and democratic rule of law. This resolution included an important sanction to numerous consultants who either operated primarily in the Basque Country or had a very important... Let's call it deep down, for the time being, in the Basque Country. Certainly, they also operated outside the territory of the autonomous community, and I fear that this has finally resulted in a case. If he had stayed here, only in Euskadi, I don't know where we would have ended up, but that's another argument we'll have another day. This resolution sanctions, as I say, a very significant number of companies and their managers. I bring you here, 319 pages double-sided. I've got another one a little bit more trilled than this one. And the truth is, what you read here is impressive. The emails that are read here are impressive. There is a legal part, there is a part I think institutional and a political part, in which I believe it is up to both this Parliament and this government to intervene. I'll develop it now in my interpellation. As I say, here, in this situation, in this case, and in view of the emails, what is deduced are several things, and one of them is that there was some connivance. I'll be gentle for now. A certain connivance, at least with certain public administrations in the Basque Country. This is a very serious thing, Mr. Azpiazu. This is a very serious thing, and I'm afraid this has just begun. The emails that appear outlined in the resolution, I insist again, are tremendous. And anyone who starts pulling out those e-mails, starts spinning... Mrs Gorrotxategi has earlier made some reference to some possible personal relationship, etc., that exists between senior managers. I'm not going that far now. But I would like to delve into some issues. Look, public procurement, as you well know, Mr Azpiazu, is very important. In the national case, in the case of Spain, the state, as we always say here, accounts for about 10% of GDP and about 25% of public expenditure. In Euskadi it is much more, what happens is that it is more difficult to calculate, because the public sector fed with public funds here, to which the Basque Government, the deputies and the institutions, are part, carries out important economic work that is much more difficult to calculate, but it predicts that this amount is much higher. And administrations are very important for the development of these kinds of institutions, of companies. And that's why it's so important that there's real fair play here. I'll give you a few arguments. First of all, I insist, these are proven facts. The resolution of the CNMC can be appealed, it is true, but when it is appealed, and this everyone knows – on your team you surely have brilliant jurists who steals from Mrs. Garamendi's Counselorship –, if they analyze it, they will surely clarify: Look, this, perhaps, a matter of form, eventually. All the decisions that have been annulled or that have been reduced at a certain time the amount of the fine has never been because they were said: "Oh, no, it turns out that they did not carry out these practices". All have been for the same: a theme of form, a defect of form. And what is already bloody, in the case of the school dining rooms, is that the punishment was reduced above because it was said: "No, it is that above the Basque government, the public institutions, had developed a climate that made it presage that companies were not behaving against the law." And he practically already said that on top of that we blame the companies when it is that with the Basque Government, in the cartel of school dining companies, what we came to say is that there was connivance and so on. Well, first of all, there's a connivance, Mr. Azpiazu, and this is very worrying. We're no longer talking about a guilt in vigilante and such. No, it turns out that, as can be deduced from these accredited facts, when companies have to go to certain types of public contracts – you know very well – they cannot be awarded if there is not a minimum, at least in some cases, of three bidders, of three companies. Above all, the companies proposed and shared what are called hedging offers and offered to the administrations themselves the companies that were going to submit the so-called hedging offers. And you'll say, "Mr. Gordillo, those are business issues." Yeah, but it's that those companies were finally the ones that ended up actually being there, and it was the coverage offers of those companies that were finally there. This can technically be called evidence for signs, I am not going to get into a legal debate here, which would be very interesting. It's just that it's very clear, Mr. Azpiazu. Secondly, irregularities are widespread. The lehendakari has made some reference to this. In part, probably to take responsibility away or to take responsibility away from the Basque Government itself. This is not just the Basque Government. It's just that here are the deputies, they're the municipalities, they're public entities. And this, Mr Azpiazu, this is also corruption. This is also corruption. The fact that there's not a person who's caught in a picture like that, spectacular, carrying a cash briefcase and running away, and also with an anti-fake in the eyes, even though that's not caught, that's the paradigm of corruption, listen, this kind of hiring, this kind of behavior, this is also corruption. But again I insist, it is that this affects us all, it is that this is the money of everyone, it is the public money that is of everyone, not as a Vice-President of the Government says, that is not of anyone, no, no, it is of everyone, and the work of the Basque Government and the work of the administrations is precisely to safeguard the good use of this public money. Control systems haven't worked. The lehendakari pointed out this morning that in none of the institutions whose accounts it has audited there was any irregularity. Man, the CNMC has done it for the time being, the CNMC has already done it, and if you're talking to me about other institutions that are taxing the accounts, it's one thing to control the accounts and it's another thing to control the procedures for awarding contracts. At this point I understand that for a short question of four minutes you will not give time, but you now have plenty of time to develop this topic. I hope you will develop it, Mr Pedro María, because you are a great parliamentarian. It is not limited to the text already prepared, which begins: "Mr. Gordillo...". But, well, we're all free here. I'm going to give you a case, the employment program case. The case of the employment programme is tremendous. In 2015, one of the companies that is sanctioned by the CNMC wins the competition to take over the contract for technical assistance, monitoring and evaluation of the 2015 Employment Plan. 2016, again the same company. It is accredited by the CNMC that here there was connivance and that it was finally rigged, that this company managed to rig the contest with the connivance of the Administration. But it is that in 2020 again, and recently it continues to be hired. We have heard from the press that these companies are still being hired, and this is serious. Here the Basque Government has room for manoeuvre, because what the Basque Government had to do here is to assume the role of defender of legality, and it would also have to personify and position itself in the defense of the public, in the defense of all and go against these companies. Investigate why this has happened and put all the remedies so that this cannot happen again. That is what the Basque Government had to do. On the other hand, what has the Basque Government done? He's profiled. He profiled and seems to be the defender of the companies, seems to be the defender of the cartelists. This cannot be, Mr Azpiazu, this cannot be. The lehendakari this morning made three considerations, it was to be expected. He said, "Well, this is a sanction to some private companies." I imagine that that brings you also prepared, it is a sanction to some private companies, old known and with a great deal of root in Euskadi, but well, to private companies. Secondly, it says: "We are going to send all the contracts with these companies to Parliament for analysis." Man, just missing, we've already asked, is that I've already asked them, some other group as well, a battery of questions and requests for documented information. And let's work together. Man, of course we're gonna work together. The lehendakari what he has said is that he is going to comply with the law, indeed, man, he was just missing, but it is that here we have to do more, we have to do more, Mr Azpiazu. In the second round, I will go a little further, but I would like to ask you what the Basque Government intends to do about this, what position the Basque Government intends to take in this very serious situation. And I insist, Mr Azpiazu, Don Pedro María, this has only just begun. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u74	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u75	President andrea. Mr. Gordillo. Indeed, if you had to respond alone and directly to what is apparent from the letter of your request for inquiry, you should answer it with something that you quite well know. This is, on the one hand, that the competition regulation is not the responsibility of this Government or Parliament, but of the State and, on the other hand, that the Basque system for detecting these anticompetitive behaviours, which is developed through the Basque Competition Authority, works satisfactorily and effectively. That is why I cannot accept under any circumstances the suspicion that you have left on the table that if this had been analysed in Euskadi, perhaps you would not have gone anywhere. This seems to me to be absolutely intractable, Mr Gordillo. It follows from this, in response to your question, that on what it depends on this Administration we will continue to refine our mechanisms of detection, of acting against this kind of behavior, all our resources. However, it is clear from the justification of your request, and I quote, that "The CNMV's resolution concerning this cartel of consultants includes the text of emails from which it could be deduced that the staff and/or posts of the Administration would or might be aware of such activities." This statement moves me to make some reflections which, together with those which the Lehendakari himself made a moment ago in this plenary to Mrs Gorrotxategi's question on this particular issue, must describe the governmental attitude towards the facts for which he is asking me. Firstly, it is necessary to recall that it was the Basque Competition Authority, an autonomous body under this Administration, that initiated the investigation of the dossier now completed by the CNMC. Secondly, the scope of the research carried out by the National Commission on Markets and Competition, which has resulted in the sanctioning of a large number of consultancy companies and natural persons working in those companies, must be properly contextualised. Because, in view of the number of parliamentary initiatives in this regard, it seems that the Basque Government was the only Administration affected by the restrictive competition practices sanctioned by the NCMC in the resolution of this file. And nothing further from the truth, because there are multiple administrations and local entities affected by these practices that have been considered by the CNMC as a cartel. In this regard, for example, if we confine ourselves to the so-called Northern Collaboration Network, the CNMC resolution acknowledges facts that have affected 101 tenders from various administrations from March 2009 to March 2018 in the regions of Asturias, Cantabria, Castile and León, La Rioja, Navarra and the Basque Country. Of these 101 tenders, only 27 tenders relate to departments of the Basque Government or public sector entities of the Basque Autonomous Community. The remaining tenders relate to a variety of public entities, both from the Basque Country and from different departments and entities of the outlying parliaments, municipalities and dependent entities as well as from other autonomous communities, such as the City of Santander, the Cantabria Employment Service, the Cantabria Regional Tourism Society, the Castile-Leon Board or the La Rioja Economic Development Agency. But, in addition, the resolution of the CNMC also confirms the allocation to 72 tenders of the so-called National Collaboration Network in the areas of Andalusia, Balearic Islands, the Canary Islands, Castilla-La Mancha, Castilla-León, Catalonia, Ceuta, Melilla, Comunidad Valenciana, Extremadura, La Rioja, Madrid, Murcia and Navarra. In some communities where you also rule. As can be seen, therefore, the sanctioned practices do not exclusively affect the territorial scope of the autonomous community nor do they exclusively affect the public sector under the Basque Government. Thirdly, in the light of the request for an opening of investigations in this regard, it is necessary to stress that the proceedings investigated by the CNMC are not the invitations to tender of the various public administrations concerned, but the concerted practices of those undertakings in order to offer fictitious coverage in the framework of such public invitations to tender. Tenders which, in the case of those promoted by the Basque Government, were, at the time, monitored by both the intervention control bodies and the Basque Court of Public Accounts, the supreme body which precisely depends on this Parliament. As part of its investigation, the CNMC has made dozens of information requirements to the various bidding authorities in relation to the procedures that were altered. And, generally speaking, the actions of the various public administrations concerned have never been called into question by the NCMC, in any case. Therefore, there is no justification or justification for the opening of an investigation into tenders made from March 2009 to March 2018, more than three years ago, and even less so when there is no anomaly in the administrative action taken in the handling of such tenders from the NCMC file. It has even come to ask for the opening of investigations to know whether there was connivance between the contracting bodies and the companies sanctioned, when neither is this coexistence accredited in the resolution of the National Competition Market Commission. They also point out that there are facts that could be deduced that some administrations may have been aware of anti-competitive practices, but none pertaining to the public sector of the autonomous community, none. Indeed, there has been no evidence of collusion in the investigation of the 27 tenders for departments of the Basque Government or public sector entities of the Basque Autonomous Community. Therefore, there is no justification or justification for the initiation of any investigation in this regard. Finally, in view of the claim for measures to prevent the occurrence of such practices restricting competition in public procurement, there is no better formula than to strengthen transparency and improve the regulatory regulation of this important aspect of administrative action. In this regard, it is worth recalling that the current Public Sector Contracts Act, which entered into force in 2018, among other new rules aimed at promoting transparency in contracts, has implied the abolition of the case of application of the negotiated procedure without publicity on grounds of amount, precisely the procedure used in the vast majority of tenders investigated by the CNMC. This procedure – widely used in practice – was very agile, but suffered from a lack of transparency due to lack of publicity. In order to remedy these shortcomings, this law has created a new procurement procedure, the so-called open or simplified procedure, in which the procurement process is designed to make its duration very short and the processing very simple, but without neglecting, however, the necessary publicity and transparency in the tendering procedure of the contract. But it is also important for public administrations to ensure the proper application of public procurement legislation, in particular by respecting the principles of advertising and competition, and to promote the follow-up of good practices in order to detect irregularities. For this purpose, it may be very useful to develop good practice manuals or guides that set out recommendations for applying in procurement procedures to prevent the possible implementation of bad practice. And, in this same area, we can include the work of the Public Procurement Advisory Board in its task of developing and proposing such circular rules, instructions and recommendations as it deems appropriate in relation to public procurement, as has been the case, for example, with recommendation 1/2020 of 5 March of the Public Procurement Advisory Board, in relation to minor contracts, following the amendment of the Public Sector Contracts Act operated by the Royal Decree Law 3/2020 of 4 February. In short, Mr Gordillo, there is no sign of coexistence (sic) with the companies sanctioned in the case of the public sector of the Basque Autonomous Community, with regard to the decisions of the CNMC or the decisions of the litigation courts, when, if it were to bring an action by the companies and individuals fined, the hypothetical remedies would be resolved, and preventive precautionary measures of good practice, some of which have already been taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u76	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Don Pedro María, I don't know if you have failed the text you were bringing or the subconscious, because you said that there is no coexistence with companies. I imagine you mean connivance, but that's the problem, it's that there's coexistence with companies. That's the problem. Man, he's egged me, don't tell me no, that's the problem. Look, on the issues you have commented on, I have already moved forward. As your boss made you spoiler this morning, because then I've already gotten a little ahead of what I thought I was going to say, so I've already answered a little bit of what you were proposing. Look, we need an investigation. It's just that we need an investigation. I am going to do one thing, Don Pedro María, which is not usually done in politics, and is to give it an opportunity for the Basque Government to really, really initiate an investigation, and to be independent and external. This is fundamental. The credibility of independence in the Euskadi market must really be regained. It's just that you have to do it, Mr. Azpiazu. For a very long time, and you know it, the procurement market and other markets in Euskadi were very complicated markets for companies for other reasons. But now that we have to compete with other very competitive markets, we cannot afford this. Look, CNMC's sanction is even generous with cartelists. If this were an Anglo-Saxon country, they would no longer make proposals for fines to managers, they would be in jail. The fine would have two more zeros if this were an Anglo-Saxon country. It is here that the principle of proportionality in the matter of fines is that it is very generous with cartel companies. But this is very serious, I insist, because it is everyone's money, Mr Azpiazu. Companies adjust their behaviour to the social and economic environment in which they develop. I didn't mean to do it, I say, "Don Pedro Maria is a serious man; he won't let me read the e-mails." But well, since you've made me read them, I'm going to read them to you, two extracts. By the way, fact 99, made fourth of the CNMC resolution. It's very revealing. I read you an email that the manager of one of these consultants sends to a public company. And he says, a loving name, begins: "I attach you the draft technical prescriptions and companies to invite from your public company." In other words, the package, that is, the draft of the package and the other companies, to make it seem like there was competition, is that it was already sent by one of the cartelists. This is very serious, Mr. Azpiazu. I'll give you another example. A mail, in this case from a senior consultant to two representatives of a public institution in Euskadi, to suggest the two companies to which they could send an invitation to tender. "On the other hand...", he says, "...if you want to facilitate the invitation to other companies...", let's call them A and B, "...are companies that could offer as well. If it suits you, we would facilitate your contacts." This email crossing is very worrying, Mr Azpiazu. It's very worrying. I understand you're in a very uncomfortable position. Hence the effort of your team, and your staff, to try this: "Well, bah. It's an isolated theme, "there are systems," "we're going to react by improving control systems,"... I get it. But, man, 95 contracts in Euskadi. It is true that this is one thing, it is true that this has been an earthquake that has shaken all of Spain, but the epicenter was in Euskadi. The epicenter was in Euskadi: 95 contracts in Euskadi, 1 in La Rioja, 1 in Castile and León, 1 in Santander, 1 in Cantabria. 95 here, at our house, Mr. Azpiazu, at home. Look, I know you're a serious man, I have respect for you. We asked for three things. I'm asking you three things. I think the whole opposition and the whole House could ask for that. I can only speak on behalf of my group, but I think it captures the feeling of opposition. First, open an internal investigation, truly independent. And second, persuade yourself as a government. It is asking for damages to these cartel companies which, with their practices, have seriously harmed not only the taxpayer but also the Basque citizen. You just have to figure it out. You have an obligation to be in person. Thirdly, a question: will the Basque Government continue to contract with these companies that have already been sanctioned by the CNMC? I look forward, with great interest, to your answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u78	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u79	Mr. Gordillo, you know there is no connivance or coexistence. And that's what the CNMC says. What happens is that you intend to embarrass the political field and have some fun with this issue that you think you can draw political revenue from. And that doesn't say much about you as a politician, as much as it hurts me to tell you. Mr Gordillo, by reiterating the above, the best way to avoid restrictive conduct of competition must come by improving the regulatory regulation of public procurement, in the wake of the European directives on public procurement, and by introducing good practice. These are the main tools that can allow for an improvement in recruitment, not the opening of investigations without any motivation or justification. Investigations that are simply sought in order to co-responsible to public administrations in general and to the Basque Government in particular for the improper and restrictive conduct of certain bidders. Nor is it understood, as I would like to repeat, the reasons for his questioning the Councillor for Economics and Finance to explain a sanctioning file of the National Commission on Markets and Competition, when the Basque Government, far from being a party to that file, should in any case be regarded as one of the victims of the alleged cartel and of the alleged restrictive practices of competition. In this sense, the attempt to ask the Basque Government for explanations on this issue in an inquiry is nothing but a use – in my opinion – of this initiative of impulse and control of the Government. In short, an action aimed at the political instrumentalization of Parliament, in order to link the Government in general and the Department of Economics in particular with hypothetically improper uses, when not presumed customer uses of the contractual activity of the Administration, which has nothing to do with the actions carried out both by the Basque Government and by the Department of Economics and Finance. And a good example of such instrumentalization is the incongruity of requesting, as you have done, documented information in relation to the contracting of the Basque Government with the consulting companies sanctioned by the National Commission on Market and Competition and performing this inquiry when this information has not yet been provided, since the deadline for the referral has not yet been completed. But of course, Mr Gordillo, when you receive the information you may already find it politically less profitable, because now is the time when this issue is at hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u80	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, by José Manuel Gil Vegas, members of the popular team of the Basque Ciudadans, by the head of the Treasury and Ogas Department, by the recent aeronautic projects on the next planet." Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Councilman, we are now talking about the aeronautical sector, a critical sector which is also in a critical situation. And we're also talking about the Euskadi Next program, which is why I'm addressing you. On 9 March, from our parliamentary group, we asked the Basque Government for information on the aeronautical projects to be taken up by the Euskadi Next programme. The origin of this initiative was the importance that was being given to the sector, within the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, which was being developed by the Government of Spain, with the aim of accessing the funds of the European Union Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, and which had not yet been referred to the Commission. In response to this request for information, the Councillor's reply to the above-mentioned initiative came on 19 April. – I would like to point out that a short month has just passed – in which it is said, in a textual way: "No project is envisaged in relation to the sector of activity for which this parliamentary initiative is concerned". However, we are surprised to note that on 17 May, just a month later, the Euskadi Next programme, in its latest update, comes up as seven projects in the sector worth EUR 334.3 million. It's not four hard ones. That's why we asked the counselor what happened this short month. What's changed? Why wasn't it collected before in any project and suddenly 324 million have appeared? And let's see if you could give us some information about those projects that we have very little information about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u82	Thank you, Mr. Gil. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u83	Yes, Mr. Gil, I'm delighted. Since the presentation on 29 December of the Euskadi Next programme, significant progress has been made on issues related to the management of European funds and their governance. One of the most relevant is the Royal Decree-Law 36/2020, which adopts urgent measures for the modernization of the public administration and for the implementation of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, and sets out a number of principles and approaches for the management of recovery funds, with a clear orientation for implementing investments, transformations and structural reforms aimed at the transition to a climate-neutral, sustainable, circular economy and society, respectful of the limits imposed by the natural and resource-efficient means. In its article 8 it forms a new figure of public-private collaboration, which is PERTE. These are projects of a strategic nature, with an important potential to drag the rest of the economy. Mr Gil, what was raised by the Government of Spain in December as PERTE referred to specific projects. At present, a PERTE refers more to an area of action. Spain has defined, in its National Recovery Plan, announced in April, six of the 10 PERTE that it plans to launch. And one of them is the aerospace industry. The Basque programme has included projects that can be incorporated into this PERTE, so that our sector can have options to absorb resources from the MRR and generate wealth and employment in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u84	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u85	Thank you very much, Counselor. Indeed, in the update that you have submitted, there are four projects in the aeronautical sector that occupy, among the four, a single page, without us knowing which companies are behind, nor with what support these projects, nor any other information. This program looks a lot like the letter to the Magi. Little realism, little information and a lot of fantasy. Does it seem reasonable to you now to ask for aid from Europe, for example, for a project with EUR 42 million to launch satellites from Foronda? In case someone doesn't understand me, I repeat, to launch satellites from Foronda? Of which we do not officially know more than the three lines contained in the document of the last update. Mr Councilman, this is not what the aeronautical sector that is dying needs, which is in a critical situation. And in this situation this smells like improvisation everywhere, in a hurry to put unripe projects in a sector that is critical and that is experiencing serious difficulties. That is, poor quality management, which contradicts the famous myth that "we manage here better than others". And here we find a figure of this amount, nothing more and nothing less than hundreds of millions of euros, with a page and with projects that have less than three lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u86	Thank you, Mr. Gil. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u87	Mr. Gil, the projects have been developed by institutions, companies, government...I believe that by letter to the Magi has little. I believe that the people who have done so have done so with full knowledge of what they were doing. The approach of this second version of the Euskadi Next programme does not differ from that presented in the December document. The eight components are maintained, reflecting investment priorities for recovery, transformation and resilience, and are consistent with the seven flagship areas identified by the European Commission, as well as the 10 levers and 30 components listed in the Spain May 13th Plan. The difference with the first version of Euskadi Next lies in the greater emphasis being placed on the need to turn efforts and resources in favour of transformation, and not so much of recovery, from the conviction that transformation will bring about recovery, but not necessarily if it is done backwards. All this has led us to give greater importance to these projects, on which the transformation can be established, and which, because of their complexity, require innovative and ambitious responses, such as the PERTE, conceived as an administrative highway that allows to speed up all the processes. For this reason, from Euskadi, projects are formulated that may have a place in the state PERTE and act as transformative levers. We have relevant capacities and projects within the framework of the six identified state GOVERNMENTs. These are scientific, training, technological and industrial capacities that Euskadi has been developing and promoting since the country's first socio-economic transformation. A clear example is that of the Basque aerospace industry, which does not exist 30 years ago, but which today has a cluster and tractor companies. The projects collected in Euskadi Next were presented in January to the demonstration of interest of programmes to boost projects tractors of competitiveness and industrial sustainability, promoted by the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and Tourism. As you can see, many things have changed in a few months, and they will continue to change. And this government will have enough waist to take advantage of every niche of opportunity that opens up for our companies and working people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u88	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "You ask the question about Martín, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos-Jude-Jude of Unida, to the head of the Board of Education, about Euney." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u89	Yes, good morning, Mr. Bilartz. Our question is about the Eune University project. And I'm going to make a confession to you, I didn't think of asking you again about this, but the new things have turned out and it's our duty to ask you about them. With regard to the handling of this bill, steps have been taken. We are in the period of amendments. I say again to you – I insist on a subject on which you tried to discredit our previous question –, with all the rigour of the world, that there is a report that we are particularly concerned about, which is that of Unibasq on the memory of the university, which continues to be unfavourable to the processing as a university of this project. But I will also tell you something else: in this House we do not have all the information on this project. We have asked you in writing, this group and other groups, for information on the memory presented by the promoters of this project to the department, and it is not. You have answered that we have all the information, but we do not have all the information. This Parliament is processing this bill without having all the information on the bill. And also, as we could see in the appearances, so pointed out by several participants in the processing of this bill, because I have and we have a feeling as if we were a mere bureaucratic project management office where anyone comes with a project, from which above we do not have all the information, and the only role of Parliament is to seal it as approved or refused. We believe that the role of this House on university policy goes far beyond that, on this project and also on the Basque university system and on the Basque university ecosystem. I'd like to ask you if your department has an intention to change the college law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u90	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u91	Thank you, Mrs. President of the legislature. Leaders of departments, Mr Martínez. In answer to your question, I inform you that the fit of any university based in the Autonomous Community, as you know, is determined by Law 3/2004 of 25 February of the Basque University System, specifically in its eighth title, relating to non-public universities, where its conditions are specified in Article 108, its recognition in Article 109, the control mechanisms in Article 110 and the characteristics of the faculty in Article 113. Thus, as it has been received in this law, in article 3. We must show the value of the service which the Universities give to society, and says in words: The university systems of Euscal, and all that compose it, the universityes of public or not public headlines, will assist the Esscal society in the development of economy, science, and culture, and succeed cohesion and the welfare of the citizens in the course of society which will be more just and more consistent. At the same time, it is not only our law, but also what the law of the state renders possible. Then I would ask you if there is a plan in the State to change that law. At this point I would like to proclaim the university system of Euska, and the value which the unprofited university, and the university of social society, which now constitutes the same system. And that is our policy, because both public and unpublished, constitute our system of high quality. Our university ecosystem is thus constituted as a cohesive system, attached to Basque society, to our territory and to our productive model, bringing together the public and the private, and this has been demonstrated and appreciated by Basque society. Thank you, Mr Martínnez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u92	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u93	Thank you, chief of the department. You, as you have been a parliamentary man, you know that we're asking the government questions in the hands of the police, and not out of the question, but I'll answer you. Yes, Uniidas Podemos is working on state level to guarantee that all college projects are university, and not the sequesterments to earn money, so that they can start a bad-quality chili. That's what we're doing, and that's what we're gonna do. But you haven't told me everything about the treatment. It has surprised us that in the middle of the processing of this bill the Basque Government changed its funds Next Generation and included the Araba Sport Capital which rotates over the Euneiz and which is 64 million euros of public money. 64 million euros that supposedly the Euneiz and any project around the Euneiz would not receive. I'll tell you where those 64 million are going. One exercise, one line of points for the following words, counselor. An Araba Sport Capital project that goes for training and development in three areas: health, new technologies and sports. Oh, by chance! The same three areas that Euneiz University will manage. A project that was not going to receive a euro of public money, as we have heard in this House, by its promoters and other political representatives. That is to say, it will be financed by public funds to a local center. All the elite services that will be placed around that Centre will be financed with public money. And I ask you: why not allocate that 64 million euros to make a high-performance sports center next to the UPV or next to Osakidetza? And why do you have to do it with a private project that will have university degrees at 8,000 euros, an international private school in the city of Euskadi with more school segregation, sports elite centers when we have the Faculty of Sports of the UPV a few meters? Why should this project be financed with public money? Is this your commitment to EHU's development? I don't think so, but that project puts doubts on the table.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u94	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u95	Yes, Mr Martínnez. The Department of Education, in compliance with the law, has carried out the necessary procedures to comply with the legislation in force, drawing up and processing the bill for its elevation to this Parliament. And at this point it is proper that either you or the Basque parliament should give the rating of this bill by means of its functions and the rules of law which are established. As you know, the bill of law is in order to be corrected by the groups of this Chamber until the 11th of June. Finally, I would like to point out that if your group's position on the creation of universities is the one that you are moving here, it is at least surprising that you are not expressly collecting what you are moving into the text of the draft of the Royal Decree regulating the creation and recognition of universities currently being processed in the Ministry of Universities in the State. Gure iritziz, Erage-dekretuak, proposimen horrek, Espainiako unibertsitate systemren testuinguruan, unibertsitate pribatuak aiortzeko gaitasun handiagoa ematen god. Orduan, gure ustez, koherentzia gehiago azaldu beharra dago. Eta aste honetan ministerak Senatuan aipatu duen bezala, testualki esan du: "In any case, the minister has made it clear that there is no doubt that for the Spanish government the university system is made up of all the public and private universities that are accredited in the Spanish state". Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u96	Thank you, Mr. Jokin Bilartz. fourteen points in theme list: "Appeal, the parliamentary members of the "Internation, Muriel Larre Laso Euscal, Popular-Cananos, representing the Planting of the Land, Housing, and the Commander of Transport, of Donostisa-Vidasa, the Parcier of the lower regions." Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u97	Good morning, Members of Parliament, Counsellor. On 27 July 2016, by Decree 121/2016, the Basque Government approved the Partial Territorial Plan of Donostialdea-Bajo Bidasoa. In paragraph 7.5, on the strategic area of Pasaia Bay, the recovery of ADIF land for the city was envisaged. And I quote textually what it puts in the PTP at that point: "It combines this exercise of management of the bay with the scenario proposed in the PTP on the future configuration of the railway network, in which it is contemplated, apart from the horizon of the possible partial adaptation of the ADIF network to the mixed width, the construction in any case of the freight bays between Astigarraga and Gaintxurizketa, the resolution of the railway links with the port, and the possibility of future relocation and minimization of the beach of the Pasai Antxo freight lanes before the scenario of the future construction of the intermodal of Lezo with logistic platforms of support". Therefore, the Basque Government was already aware in 2016 of the need for the recovery of spaces for the city of Pasaia, as well as of the reduction of the use of the beach of tracks in question. Look, I'm gonna show you a picture of the PTP. This is the space to which allusion is made, this is at the N-1 pass through Pasaia, and these are the ADIF routes that want to recover. Well, then I'll teach you bigger. However, on March 6, 2019, a news story appeared in the Vasco Diario, in which the mayor of Pasaia appears with Isabel Pardo, president of ADIF, and in the news she says that "the mayor has managed to get ADIF to renew the station of Pasaia". However, we all know that ADIF is carrying out a renovation of all the stations it has in the Basque Country. Therefore, the mayor has only taken a photo with Isabel Pardo receiving the news of the renovation of the Pasaia station, but has not achieved anything new that ADIF was not ready to do already before. In addition, it was already included in the PTP, i.e., nothing was negotiated with ADIF. For that management translates as harmful to the citizens. Well, the neighbors who didn't know the PTP – they don't have to do it – come together, join on a platform, and on October 29, 2019, after a deep reflection, present to the plenary of the city a project similar, by chance, to that of the PTP of Decree 121/2016, which above is reflected in a plenary agreement by which the mayor of the city, Izaskun Gomez, undertakes to negotiate with ADIF in the terms of the plenary agreement, that is, to recover spaces for Pasaia in the N-1 section as it passes through the city, eliminating three ways out of the remaining six of ADIF. I have to say that these paths, in the last 10 years they only contemplate one maneuver a day, that is, there are no more maneuvers. It is true that today a number of changes have been made, but time is passing and in January of this year the vice-advisor of Infrastructures and Transports, Pedro Marco, and the mayor meet with the neighbors and let them know that ADIF is going to spend 3 million in making this new station in the same location that it is now. And they tell them that it is a good option for the city and that in seven years' time, when the Astigarraga-Gaintxurizketa baipás is finished, we will talk about throwing away the station and recovering land for the city. In addition, the neighbors make a request to ADIF for information on the cost overrun in the execution of the work according to the PTP. And what they're telling them is that until the station project as it is today in this location is completed, you can't calculate the extra cost. Okay, so far so good. We also know that the PTP is not binding on ADIF, but only to what the PTP commits is that we politicians have to go and negotiate to achieve that partial territorial plan. But we also have to mention that the Basque Government gets in the negotiation of the State Budgets that ADIF invests 48 million in the Basque Country, of which three go to Passages. But of course, here it seems that as the millions rain, because nothing happens, no one gets blushed saying that we are going to spend three million euros now to knock down a station or to renew it, but that then in seven years, when the Astigarraga Gaintxurrizketa is already made, we will throw that station away and we will make another new one where the PTP indicates, we will negotiate later with ADIF. Man, if they tell me it doesn't renew my kitchen, because in three years' time I'm going to throw it back in, as I hope, I'll do a brief maintenance that can accompany the installation until seven years after the Astigarraga-Gaintxurrizketa baipás has been executed, and at that time I'll make a new station according to the PTP. In addition, the Basque Government was aware of the need in Pasaia for construction by the neighbours, who have the housing block, the national one and the trains. The station, the trains and the port, and that is no more place, therefore, is the only option that the Pasaia neighbors have to recover, to have a walking space, a space that is so much needed today. And look, I'm gonna think about it. What happens when from the administrations, although we manage the money of all citizens, we do not give importance to that money. When you talk about 3 million euros to execute a work today and you say joyfully "it will be thrown out in a few years, it will be renewed", because look, it is normal that it surprises you and it is normal for the neighbors to feel scandalized when what they are really asking for is a place of expansion. It would be possible, because ADIF is not using the beach tracks. I'm going to tell you more: 10 years ago, two trains, two rows of abandoned wagons there and what they do is move them from one side to the other, but those wagons don't leave the station. So there are two ways left. It has now been adapted to the theme of the works of the Donostia station; it has been made a footer of the train wash. This means that ADIF routes in that area were not being used and that they are being given a laundry use. Well, look, there's a lot more important things for the neighbors, which are the fun and the place to play, to walk... If there isn't even bidegorris, if you've passed it is an area like very constrained and very unpleasant, it's really not a place to expand, it's not a place to walk. So the question is, what are the reasons why you do not implement point 7.5 of the PTP in Pasaia? Because it would actually be a good choice for the neighbors. It's a long-term option, but it's the best.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Larrea, allow me to begin my speech by making a brief general reference to the territorial order of Euskadi and its various normative levels. As you all know, partial territorial plans are the documents that define the uses and criteria for the development of the functional areas in which Euskadi has been divided. It is the intermediate step between the DOTs, the Territorial Planning Guidelines, which comprise the whole of the Basque Country, and the urban planning plans of the municipalities. They set out a set of objectives, strategies and recommendations aimed at consolidating management processes in a territorial context in an integral way. To sum up, the partial territorial plans form part of the instruments through which the territorial planning of the Basque Country is developed, and specify in each functional area the specific criteria and guidelines set out in the Guidelines for the Planning of the Territory. These territorial plans should then be reflected in the various municipal planning instruments provided for in the Soil and Urbanism Act. The Partial Territorial Plan of the area of Donostialdea-Bajo Bidasoa, was approved on July 27, 2016, as you well said. The inquiry you raise relates to the seventh chapter of the PTP, which establishes the territorial enclave of the Passage Bay as a strategic area. In a manner applicable to all enclaves identified with strategic measures, the PTP has, and I read textually, a set of general spatial, infrastructure and/or urban planning guidelines and criteria of a specific and indicative nature. Similarly, as I have just pointed out, it is determined that, in any case, the territorial design and development of each of the strategic areas identified can be carried out through the urban planning instruments provided for in the Soil Act. That is, general plans, compatibility plans, special plans, etc. In addition, article 27 of the same PTP, referring to the strategic area of Pasaia Bay, establishes, in a generic way, the reorganization of the ADIF station in Pasai Antxo, with the reversal of free space, for the extension in Antxo of the Boulevard of the old N-1, and the treatment of the railway barrier between Antxo and the port. Article 42, for its part, provides that urban planning shall apply the binding determinations set out in the PTP and comply with the recommendations made in the PTP. In parallel, and as I imagine you already know, the City Council of Pasaia has begun the process of reviewing the general plan of urban planning of the municipality, although it is still in a very early period, since in March 2020 the phase of citizen participation for the elaboration of the progress of this plan began. In this context, ADIF's announcement on the bidding of renovation works in the local station building is produced. And, based on this information, comes this inquiry, on an alleged intention on the part of this Government not to implement the Partial Territorial Plan in Pasaia. Look, Mrs Larrea, neither this administration is manoeuvring to prevent the development of the Donostialdea-Bajo Bidasoa PTP, nor is the plan being breached by any entity or organization. Firstly, and as I have already pointed out, urban planning will have to incorporate the determinations of the Partial Territorial Plan. Such incorporation will be mandatory in the case of binding determinations, not in the case of recommendations, although if they are not collected, the decision taken by the municipality must be expressly justified. In its drafting, the Partial Territorial Plan of Donostialdea-Bajo Bidasoa in no case establishes a binding determination for the urban planning of this area of Pasaia. It should therefore be the municipality itself that determines the contents of its new general plan, based on the proposals of the Partial Territorial Plan. On the other hand, it cannot be considered that the works proposed by ADIF are incompatible with the spirit emanating from the Partial Territorial Plan. These works consist mainly in improving the accessibility and safety of the current Pasaia station. Thus, it is planned to build a lower step between platforms, which will have an elevator and eliminate the crossing of passengers at the track level. In addition, the old passenger building will be replaced by a new one, which resolves the gap between access and platforms, and the passenger protection marquees will also be renewed. In short, these are works to adapt to the current needs of a space that provides an essential public service. A work that you should not scorn, because it represents an obvious improvement in the quality and conditions of the service offered by the railway operator and because we are talking about a network of general interest. On the other hand, I would also like to make it clear that in our department, following the dictates of sustainable mobility, we are taking an integrated approach to the different modes of transport. In this sense, we believe that the different means must coexist, to the extent possible, by favouring those systems which are more environmentally friendly, such as railways and bicycles. And also encouraging the boost of active mobility. But we are also clear that, when there is controversy or disagreement between these, the general interest must always prevail. In any case, Mrs Larrea, the life of a partial territorial plan is long and, as I have mentioned, it is the role of municipal planning to develop and implement them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u100	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u101	Look, Mr. Arriola, you haven't answered me, because, in fact, you've kept telling me something that was already logical. We already know what a PTP is, we already know where it is binding and where it is not binding. We already know that the municipality has to develop its PGOU. I am talking to you about something much deeper, and it is if you propose and if you agree on the disbursement of 3 million euros, which is more or less what ADIF is going to spend on the renovation of that station, in a location where, later on, if the PTP is fulfilled, if you intend to comply with that PTP, even if it has a validity of 20 years, you will have to pull, and you will have to build a few meters more towards the port. What I'm telling you is that, rather than mortgageing the citizens of Pasaia for seven years, or 14 or 15 or 16, what we should do is rethink if that investment really is now, right now. I think the needs of the people of Pasaia should be reconsidered. And I do not neglect the investment that ADIF makes in an infrastructure of general interest, as is the railway in its passage through Pasaia. What I want to tell you is that we have to manage, we have to try to manage the money well, and to do a work to throw it to me in a few years' time does not seem logical to me. And what I wanted to get here is the discontent of the citizens, of the neighbors of Pasaia, who are crying out that they need a break, because the area in which they live has several infrastructures of national rank, the national 1, the train, the port, that prevent them from developing with serenity in their city. I already know perfectly well what areas of action the PTP has. But what was asked here was an implication. Sometimes we have to have courage to say that one thing is the regulations and what we have to do and another is the political wills. And this project needs a political will that it is currently lacking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u103	Mrs Larrea, I think I made it clear in my first speech that the works that ADIF is going to carry out are necessary works for the proper functioning of the railway service in the area. And I fail to understand very well what is the object of his inquiry, beyond that it is the previous step in presenting a motion. ADIF has made clear to the mayor and the City Hall of Pasaia what are the reasons why it cannot eliminate in the short term a part of the railway beach of the station. And it is that the reasons of ADIF are that the future of the Passage track beach is linked to the connection of high speed for goods through the branch Astigarraga-Lezo-Gaintxurizketa, which, in addition, with the construction of the new station of the TAV in Atotxa, this track beach is used as a space for goods and trains so as not to interfere in the railway traffic of the vicinity or the long route. And, besides, the connection of this beach of tracks, the logistic connection, to the harbour activity that today passes through this station and that of Lezo-Renteria. These are the reasons why, at the present time, in the context of the development of railway infrastructure in the field, it is impossible to consider the reduction of the track beach in the immediate future. In this sense, I agree with the mayor and the Pasaia government team that we must distinguish between the urgent and the optimal. And the urgent thing, at the moment, is to renew a station that is in a deplorable state and that does not comply with the legislation on accessibility. What do you intend to do? That the anxotaras continue with obsolete installations and with architectural barriers? That we reject an investment of three million euros from the state in Euskadi for the improvement of this station? We are talking about a rail network of general interest. And the responsibility of RENFE and ADIF is to provide a good service, understood in its broader concept, with adequate railway infrastructure, comfortable, modern, accessible, efficient, in line with the needs of the region and the municipality of Pasaia. A municipality that is, by the way, going to experience a very considerable improvement in rail services in the coming years. This past April we have put to tender the construction of the railway variant of the mole between Altza and Galtzarabora. A project that was asleep, that we have rescued this legislature and that will allow to increase the frequencies of the trains and take them to 7.5 minutes. The new variant will have a very positive impact on the urban route of Pasaia with the creation of a new underground station. And to this must be added the decrease of the noise nuisances that the underground of the passenger trains will suppose for the neighbors who live near the track. If everything goes as planned, the award of this work will take place during the month of July, so that it can start this autumn. In addition, we plan to bid this year a study of alternatives to analyze viable options to build a Euskotren road between Herrera and Gaintxurizketa, which will allow us to find a solution to the transport of goods in its passage through Antxo. In addition, the department is working on the definition of the Lezo intermodal platform and the penetration design of a network in metric width to the port of Pasaia. All these actions, Mrs Larrea, are carried out within our competence and, of course, in line with what the Donostialdea-Bajo Bidasoa PTP proposes in railway matters. As you can see, railway infrastructure is of vital importance to the municipality of Pasaia. And this legislature is experiencing a strong momentum that will lead to an improvement in the living conditions of its neighbours. By the way, we have also known a couple of days ago that ADIF will start in autumn the work for the railway connection between Lezo and the port of Pasaia, which would allow the entry of longer trains in the town. A work whose agreement was signed in 2017 by the then minister Íñigo de la Serna and in which it was considered priority not only not to reduce the beach of tracks, but to expand it. I shall end now, not without insisting that our department believes in the desirability of differentiating means of transport so that meeting points can always be sought on the basis of the efficient organisation of railway services and the general interest.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u104	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. 15 on the theme list. dot: "To ask the question, "Unai Fernandez de Betoño Saenz de Lacuesta EH Collectorda, made for the planetion, Housing, and Commander of the Transport Division, leader of the most important project in the years to come to Reolps." Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u105	Yeah. Good noon, everyone. Chief Arriola, we're pretty worried about the new private foundation that you're trying to create, so we're calling it the Open Room Foundation. The question is: Will you give me the most important project in Repsol for the next few years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u106	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u107	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u108	Thank you, President. Mr Fernandez de Betoño, in fact, last April I signed a pre-agreement with the Repsol Foundation, a non-profit organization, for the establishment of the Opengela Foundation. Its objective is to advance urban regeneration and extend the four interventions, currently being implemented, to other points in Euskadi in the coming years. The Foundation will work under the leadership and supervision of the Basque Government, and both the areas in which it will be involved and the specific actions in which it will be involved, will be agreed with this department and with the municipalities in which the projects are carried out.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u109	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u110	Yeah. Chief Arriola, we see it may be an important project of the Open Room; we are not opposed to intention or purpose. We can see how we can control everything from the funcrew, organize it, and we can see what we want to do with the principle of the only window. Because the first will help the townships, and the townships need help to reform their old neighborhoods. And the second is to facilitate the people's work. So we're not against it. What we're saying is we need the public control and we need the full transparency. We're not even completely opposed to private collapse, but we think the leadership should be public. And you're going against it. The founding you're gonna create will be private, and it'll be 60% of Repsol's. There'll be five seats in the patronium where it'll be, and there'll be three of Repsol's and two more cheers. Acts won't be public. So we don't think it's a good idea to hand over Repsol's most important project in the town-record for the next few years. We asked you in writing to see why you should do a private foundation, and the answer was a cheap excuse: The idea you told us wasn't just fun, it was the Repsol idea. And we don't know what's troubling about it, whether it's true or not. Because in the end, it's the same result. The result is that you will deliver into Repsol the most important project that will be done in the field of the upgrade in this country for years. Why do I say it's the most important project? All you have to do is see the public money that'll come in. In general budgets, by 2021, 850 thousand euros have been left to create this private foundation. For next year, you'll put a million euros in 2023, and another million dollars. So now you're going to put almost three million euros into general funds. And, on the other hand, we must mention the Euskadi Next program. What's the one that's going to take the most money in the Euskadi Next program of all the projects? Now, the hydrogen corridor is a little paralleled with this project, which is smaller and smaller, because now that hydroline is going out. But in December you introduced him to the Basque Next program that was to take most of the money: 1,30 million euros, of which there were almost 500 of the resilence mechanism. More information about this project we asked for, because it doesn't register the Open Room name, it's called the EDAE zone integrateally a project to upgrade. But when we asked for more information, the black tattooed companies showed up. As we went to the lake, we found surprise: Repsol was the first company and GN Financial Company, another company that Repsol bought. So it'll be all that money for the Open Room Project, too. We're not fit to leave Repsoli, subconverting Repsoli, the most important project in this town. And, by the way, Repsol wasn't dedicating the oil?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u111	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u112	Thank you. We're talking about the Repsol Foundation, not the Repsol company. The Basque Government is not going to leave urban regeneration projects in the hands of anyone, but will give them impetus through public-private partnerships so that their benefits reach citizens more agilely. As you know, the pilot projects currently under development are four: Otxarkoaga, Bilbao; Txonta, Eibar; Aramotz, Durango; and Basaundi Bailara, Lasarte-Oria. But we're not content with this. We have one of the oldest housing parks in southern Europe and we do not want to leave anyone behind in the rehabilitation processes, and also in the drive for accessibility. We want to replicate this model and reach new neighborhoods, also in need of intervention. In fact, as you know, we have applied for European funding through the Next Generation so that we can expand the funds we currently have in our budgets. All of our regeneration interventions have a multisectoral dimension and include both physical and social actions. Therefore, on the basis of the European Opengela project, in each area there is a neighbourhood office which operates as a single window and serves as general support to the neighbours in the technical, administrative, accounting, financial or management aspects. For this, among other things, the Opengela Foundation is born: to provide this service and seek both advice and access to funding formulas. Mr Fernandez de Betoño, the entity that will initially form part of the Opengela Foundation, together with the Basque Government, is a perfectly solvent and qualified organisation, and among its objectives and areas of action is urban regeneration. Finally, after what you have commented, I have the feeling that what really disgusts you is not the pre-agreement that we have signed, but that public initiative and private initiative can be understood and worked together. I'm afraid your mistrust has nothing to do with pre-agreement conditions, but with your prejudices. In any case, I regret to inform you that this way of working has come to stay. Most administrations are already using it, and it is being driven by the recovery plans put in place, because, among other issues, it allows for more agility in processes and incorporates market experience to serve public objectives. On the other hand, the agreement we have signed is not exclusive. On the contrary, this agreement provides that other organizations with similar interests and objectives may be incorporated into the agreement. I also tell you that our forecast is that the first opengela, managed through the foundation, is located in Pasaia, where we will intervene with a contribution of 8 million euros. This, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, is not to leave the project in the hands of anyone, but to push it to reach citizens effectively.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u113	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The sixteenth theme in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Rebeka Ubera Aranz and EH Collect Group to the head of the Medical Department, about the cooperation of the Medical Department for EPE for Members." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u114	Thank you, good morning. Signora apple, since the irregularities of the public offers have occurred two years ago, and you are the head of the third division. Two years and three chiefs. But it's the only way to do it. Your behavior hasn't changed. So it's obvious that he's a structure model for managing medical departments. A dark pattern. But what do you want to hide with that dark pattern? You're keeping the same behavior as when the investigation started. Pass the information half into the courts. When the information you are interested in is not sent to you by trade, and you are rendered my second offer. Not the second and not the third. How else can you understand it? The indictment demands a detailed information in June 2020, and is not sent. Several petitions had been made before and had not been sent. On July 2020 the information to be sent to court is agreed by car. In October 2020, it's done again. In October 2020, the member indicates the impossibility of sending this information through a letter and requires more information requests to be determined. December 2020, seeing that information isn't sent, the prosecutor makes another complaint. February 2021, and we're still the same. March 2021, reschedule. Finally, you send information on April. But not all the information. What's going on? What's going on with urology, neurosurgery and Plastic surgery? Who are you trying to protect? Is that what it's like to cooperate with justice? Is that what you call cooperation? Is that what happened in public offering wants to be investigated?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u116	Mr. President of the Parliament, members of the legislature, good morning. The health department, as is its duty, has always answered the reports received from the Ministry of Justice, or any prayer. Not only in this case, but in any other case.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u118	Mrs. cider, it wasn't like that. Your conduct was quite contrary to your cooperation. You've shown that you don't want to investigate your conduct, that you're interfering with justice, and that there are responsibility, and that everyone knew about the health department, and that it also allowed and that it was involved. For instance, what are you arguing about not giving them away? What do you mean, data protection's broken? Anonymated? In EPE you were given the means of breaking up anonymional, as is shown in the shops. The manager who seemed to be going to break his appetite, for all he could do, still continues to care about the health department. So if you have any responsibilities. What we ask of you today is that you have to change your behavior, because it's not co-worker, because it's an obstacle, and the obstacle must become co-worker. It's time to start working with justice. You can begin by destroying the operational core that was at once to cause irregularities.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u120	We'll define it. Requests of 2019. March 22nd: A list of rivals, jury and thorough investigations. The answer was sent to court on April 23rd. September 23rd: In the 19th and 26th of May 2018, the original examinations and exercises of opposition. On the 25th of October, a judicial commission received a considerable documentation in the Osacia. November 6th: the method of connecting anonymous investigations with things that might be. The documentation was sent on November 27th. 2020 requests. In the 11th of September, all the journals of the Court of Urology, communications between the Medical Court and the Osaci; in order to remove an opposition agent from the entire file, the meetings of the meeting in Cardology, the meetings of the Neurology process, the subject records, and finally, as regards the specialty of Traumaology and the surgery Orthodia, there began a day's records in the 20th May. The answer was sent on October 28, 2020. At the head of a subject the court was asked to specify more cornieans, for vagueness made it impossible to answer the request. November 17th, LEP's medical speciality code and name, anonated identifier, scores, information on practical analysis, and data associated with it. He answered on December 10th. Year 2021. On February 22, the same information was demanded of the 11th of September, and it was answered that this return was completed on the 10th of December 2020. On the 9th of March, to identify and give the data of the Chief of the Companion Service at the Human Resources Vice-Governor. It was answered on March 16th. On the 29th of March, the election of Human Resources, and the Corporate Service Chief, and the Councillor of the Court of Urology, the Corporates of April 24th and 25th of April, 2018. It was answered on April 13th that there was no mail on the 26th of April and 27th, and their copy was added to them. So everything has been answered in its time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "The question is, that Carmelo Barrio Barroja, the popular Group of the Ciudadans, a member of the Medical Department, a second dose of vaccination, and "counter of Bamen." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u122	Good morning, again. Thank you, President and Counsellors, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I'm going to ask you a question about the so-called second dose crisis. No clear explanations have been provided by the health authorities regarding the vaccination criterion followed for those under the age of 60 who received the first dose of AstraZeneca. We know that because we live it every day in relation to the debate in the citizenry. In addition, countless experts, medical and scientific societies, the European Medicines Agency itself, the World Health Organization have certified the desirability of inoculating the second dose of the Oxford vaccine to which they received the first dose. There has also been criticism of the move of responsibility to the citizen in relation to the discrepancy in demarcating itself from the governmental criterion of providing the second dose of Pfizer. This is an issue that affects everyone, which affects us all, and the truth is that we want to know the true reason for this criterion, in this case, of the Administration, which disagrees with the needs and above all of the experts and scientists, and what is the reason to have the so-called informed consent signed to those who, being under 60 years of age, have to undergo the second dose of vaccination and repeat the pattern, and choose to repeat the AstraZeneca vaccine. I hope that you will be clear about what the Inter-Territorial Council is saying, what you are talking about and that you will bring it to us here in a correct way, and that you will tell us why you disagree with the decisions of the experts and the European agencies and the world agencies.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u123	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u124	Thank you. The signature of an informed consent is necessary only for those persons under 60 years of age belonging to essential groups who, in their day, received the first dose of AstraZeneca and who now reject it for a second dose of AstraZeneca. However, this is the indication of the Public Health Commission. The agreement states "the second dose is Pfizer", and that we all know, because we have said so. And you say "transfer the decision." No, no, The indication is clear: "second dose, Pfizer". For its part, the Inter-Territorial Council agreed, after consultation with the Bioethics Committee, that those who wished not to follow that indication could exceptionally receive the second dose of AstraZeneca, but that for this purpose they should first sign a document giving their consent. But we're not wrong. The indication is clear "Pfizer as a second dose", and exceptionally anyone who does not want it can opt for a dose of AstraZeneca.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u126	Thank you, President. Well, that's why I'm asking, and why. That is to say, with the issue of the second dose of AstraZeneca vaccination, the citizenry attends to atoning and concerned about what happens. Counselor, it's a matter of public health, not private health. I mean, the Department of Health, Osakidetza, the Labi, the Interterritorial Council... and now that it's the citizens who have to stick to what consequences and sign what documents. Please explain to us what is happening at the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System. Don't tell me about other autonomous communities, tell me about yourself, tell me what you tell the ministry when they tell you to sign the citizens, their citizens, an informed consent. You're not just representing Eusko Jaurlaritza, you're representing all citizens. And in addition, people who are vaccinated with AstraZeneca and who are not vaccinated with the second dose, wonder why? What's the real reason? Or you may ask them: Brexit and the punishment of Brexit, are business defaults, are prices, is the ineffectiveness of the administrations. They have to tell us why all this. How did we get here? Because with the AstraZeneca vaccine there have been many changes in relation to supply, in relation to ages, in relation to, at this time, the second dose. The European Medicines Agency and the WHO are categorical in relation to what comes from vaccination: follow the pattern of the same vaccine. That is, what experts endorse, what documents support the decision to administer Pfizer after being vaccinated with AstraZeneca, really – because the experts on the other side do know and are broad – tell us. Consent should also be reversed, the one that is vaccinated with Pfizer should know the technical sheet of its first vaccine and assume the change. On the other hand, the essay is criticized, in addition to the cocktail it is because it is a political decision rather than a health decision and that is also on the street, it has been decided by the politicians. You will know the keys and, please, I ask you and tell you, I ask you to tell us for real, because there is confusion in society and in citizenship.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u127	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u128	Mr. Barrio, listening to you is like listening to the reply of some other counselor, casually from your party, who says the same thing, but gives no answer. The answer you have given yourself, it has to be scientific and technical criteria and those are the ones who have determined that the second is Pfizer. I invite you, first, to read the EMA report in detail and all the conclusions; second, to review, yes, the composition of the Public Health Commission where not only those experts from all communities are represented, but all scientific societies and academies. And those are the experts who, in addition to studying the AME, the WHO, have made the proposal and the indication that the second dose is Pfizer. Don't look at me, because it wasn't a political decision. No, don't look at me. And don't want to get the political speech in there. The decision has been taken within the Public Health Commission. And, as I told you, you know who makes up that commission. And what we have done has been, as we have always done, to maintain an approach, to respect the decisions of that group of scientific experts, who have been given that mandate and, moreover, to do so in coordination, as a decision of the Inter-Territorial Council. Why? Because we understand that, in something as transcendent as this, we have to be clear and consensual. And that's what we're doing, and we've been doing it. This is set out in the strategy, a common strategy for all communities. And a strategy that is based on, I will tell you again, and has been based, at all times, on the criteria and decisions taken within the Public Health Commission, where we are not politicians or politicians. From the Interterritorial Council, what was transferred was the consultation to the Bioethics Committee. And that's the result. And those who do not want to follow the guidelines established by the Public Health Commission are the Bioethics Committee, in that second case, because it is not to continue with the guidelines established with scientific and technical criteria, Mr Barrio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question of the question, of the question, of the law of the Kymba, which is the law of the Combats, of equality, justice, and the chief physician of the Society, concerning the measures which may be taken against the state which is being placed at the border of Irun." Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u130	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief Artola generous deck A young African who drowned Bidas in the river last week was from the Coast of Boli. He was 28 years old, and he had been trying to cross the frontier for a week, to avoid war and poverty. They had to get another one out of the water. He was 16 years old, and the French police returned him in heat. And it has not been for two months that another guinea young man was on the point of losing his life in the same river, and that another sick man appeared dead. The boundaries established under the pretext of the antiterrorist or Pandemy are increasing and stronger. They act with despair, and produce such tragedies, they are murderers. Irun's emigrations have created a state which we believe is unacceptable. In our country, not only in Cætan, in Lesbos or in the Mediterranean, but also in our own country. And the fate of those people who look for a safer life is not the same as those who remember the young man drowned on Saturday of the Bidas. And we think we need to face this whole thing. You said it in an article: every death calls for answers. Although I don't just think it's the deaths. And that's what I wanted to ask you about. Is it going to articulate a popular response to the unaccompanied situation that's going on today in Irun?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u132	Congressmen, good morning to all. Good morning, Mrs. Kotja's. The 16-year-old who speaks of justification of your question, fortunately, did not lose his life. He got help and then went on his way. The person who died, unfortunately, was called Yaya. He was another grown-up boy, as you said, 28 years old, from Ivory Coast. A tragedy. It had names and surnames. On May 15, he had rested in the Hilanderas de Irun resource, and lost his life, searching for his dreams when trying to cross the Bidasoa River. It is clear that something is failing in Europe and in our system, when a young man like Yaya loses his life, precisely, trying to improve it. We are all responsible for this tragedy: governments, associations and society at large. A death like that of Yaya, on her journey to hope, forces us to look, improve and reorganize migration policies and humanitarian care beyond the Basque borders. And a death like that of Yaya is a collective failure, because this is not an individual problem of Euskadi or of Spain, but rather a global problem. In any case, we assume our responsibility, and we work from institutional and social cooperation, with loyalty, so that the place where people are made does not determine where they can die. We maintain an ethical and humanitarian commitment, as Lehendakari has previously assured Vox's MP. And this moral obligation has also led us to be pioneers in the drive and adoption of the Basque Social Pact for Immigration. Fortunately, in Euskadi we have managed to develop an inter-institutional and social collaboration, which has enabled us to work together in a response to the needs posed by the arrival of immigrants in transit, with the evaluation that was concluded with broad support with the institutions, with the political parties and with civil society in the Social Pact for Immigration in Euskadi. And we're still working on that line, Mrs. Kortajarena.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u134	Yeah. Thank you. The chief physician, but he had not followed his path by the 16-year-old. The French policeman had come back from the heat. And I just think it's the first thing we have to do is cover the holes invisibility. This is happening, and we have to make it visible. We have to say that there are racist borders between Irun and Hendaia, that these are built against our will, and that there are hot returns in them, and that international law is breached. They're oppressing human rights and we don't admit it. This is happening here, in our country, and we have to end up with these killer migration policies. And we need to say that we want to open the borders out loud. We have to say that we demand a radical change in Spanish, French and European migration policy. And that it is urgent, that it is urgent to ensure rapid and safe paths with rights-based approaches. We need to face all of this. But also opportunity. Without going far, on the previous Saturday, we were able to verify that the means of sewing the vast network of humanity and solidarity are given in our country. Let's take advantage of them. And when you came to our place, as far as I'm concerned, you mentioned the Euscal treaty of migration, too, the president mentioned it. And in return of this pact, we all made commitments, one and the other. We all signed it. And we understand that even these commitments must, in a certain way, climb our commitments and our answers. We can't say that we're doing everything that's in our power because people aren't getting any answers, and we don't give other people the things they need. We must articulate a people's answer, that our people may be a real people of reception, whether from word or not. An effective response. And that's the time for it. This organizational and social response is the time to determine in particular and bold actions. And then, no doubt, the Basque People will be escorted by you. Euskal Herria Bildu will be a necessary accomplice to end murderous policies. And we can do it among all of us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u136	I believe that, Mrs Kortajarena, we have few discrepancies on this issue. I can assure you that we are working on parallel lines of action to respond to the situation that is taking place in the Irun Muga; we have been doing so for over three years now. Since 2018 there has been a massive influx of migrants in transit. On the ground, we have an entire humanitarian care network for migrants in transit arriving in Irun. All those who meet the requirements for access to Hilanderas have an attention. As you know, we have been transparent, we have given all the information. The usual device of Hilanderas, managed by Red Cross, serves more than 50 people every day on average. People who need to rest, replenish and also clean up. And we also have an inter-institutional table, which is led by my department, to respond to the different scenarios that are taking place and that can be given in the future. This table, already in its time, drew up a contingency plan, which we had to activate in March, since in only a month and a half we had to respond to more than a thousand people, because there was also a significant influx of people in transit. But, in the face of these uncertain scenarios that we do not seem to know, as you say, to give an answer, I think we have prepared the system to give a human response, sustainable and in addition to quality. We're working on it. Because we do not know very well what we are going to face this summer, Mrs Kortajarena, and that is also a matter of concern to us. Humanitarian care is therefore organized and ensured. And the best way to take care of inter-institutional work is to work on that social and political discourse. We have met with Jone Belarus, with José Luis Escrivá, because we want and believe that we must continue to make progress in this policy, which is not only going to be resolved in Spain or in Euskadi, but must be European.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-28.u137	Thank you, chief physician. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at one o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-five.
