ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I want you to know that the tenth point on the subject list has been left for another. First point in theme list: "The question is, that Louis Javier Tellería Errools, a member of the Eubertarian Society, was made to the president, because of the epidemic caused by COVID-19, in regard to the views which the President may lead to the society of euscal." Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u1	Señora presidentata, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Last year on March 13th, EukMOY promised a health attack and the Spanish Government set up an alarm tomorrow. From that moment on, in Euskadin, in the whole world, there was a confidence in all the people's family, the situation we had never known and had never even imagined. This confinement meant the total cessation of all activities. It also meant canceling all mobility. The citizen's response was commendable. The situation in the first few months was critical for the health system and for essential services to citizens. They all responded with a high level of commitment, professionalism and responsibility, responding to the needs and emergencies raised. After three months of hard confinement at home, he resumed his activity from June. In the middle of August the situation got worse again and the RedModick had to put on a health attack again to break off the communal transmission of virus. In this second wave, house confinement has been avoided and the activity has been maintained, with a special mention of face-to-face education, which has been maintained thanks to the shared effort of the entire educational community. Also in this case, the public health system has managed to maintain the service offered to citizens. In December, the number of infections began to rise again in several European countries. Christmas toasts, contacts, purchases, and social intercourse helped this tendency to increase. The positive cases, the hospitals, and the hospitals in ZIU increased. Moreover, the new British variant of the virus appeared. And restrictive measures had to be taken again, especially to limit mobility and social relations. In parallel, and since December 27, the first vaccine has opened up new hope. However, vaccination will take many months to reach society as a whole and it seems that certain delays in production and distribution are beginning to occur. These are unfathomable dysfunctions to the Basque Government, which, with the exception of some already explained discoordination, is proceeding in a commendable way to the very complex vaccination process in a previously registered order. They deserve, especially the entire Department of Health, Osakidetza and her advisor, Mrs Sagardui, our recognition and support for their effective work. And it is our wish that you continue to work in your position knowing that you will not stop doing so as you have so far, no matter how much speakers are added to certain traumatic and tactical short-term political visions, which, by the way, does not help the necessary social calm. From now on, we will be faced with three critical factors: the evolution of contagions and hospitalizations, the consequences of the pandemic on economic activity and employment, and the foreseeable evolution of vaccination. Since last March, the epidemic of COVID-19 has invaded us, there have been a lot of events. We have learned much, though we continue to live with the uncertainty of the future. In this situation, what view can the President give to the euscal society for these months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u2	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u3	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. Mr. Tellegio, this is the view I want to share. these last ten months have been very serious. Society has been obliged to undergo a situation which no one could ever imagine. The effort to do so far has been cheering. From now on we must maintain the same attitude-that is to say, we must continue to conform to all measures with severity. Even though we seem to be doing the hardest of all this time, what we've been up to is not going to be easy. The handling of the Covida crisis enables us to perform two essential goals. On the one hand, the domestic confidence, the destruction of study, the avoiding of health and economic coma. And, on the other hand, to support the most injured sectors, and to place the foundation for economics and employments: COVID Fund, Regenerate plan, budgets, and Euskadi the next program. For months to come, as you have well said, two variables condition the development of the pandemos; negative variable variables of the virus and positive variables of the insertion effect. A negative variable is conditioned by other variations or variables of a mutated virus in the United Kingdom, or that may be imported. On the other side of the scales, looking at the following months, the insertion process is a positive variable. There is still a lot of doubt about the ability to produce and distribute vaccination and, consequently, about the final projection of the insertion calendar. In any case, it is the fundamental basis of the opposition strategy of the pandemoment. In Euskadi we will continue to comply with the "Vaccination Strategy against COVID-19" developed by the technical vaccination working group involving the Ministry of Health, Euskadi – together with six communities – and professional associations. This strategy was adopted on 2 December last year. It has been updated on 17 December and 21 January, following the recommendations of the European Medicines Agency. With regard to vaccines, there is a single strategy for Europe as a whole, for the State and for Euskadi. It is the same strategy and is conditioned by a determining factor: the shortage of vaccines, for the time being. Fulfilling priorities and vaccinating the most vulnerable and exposed people will provide relief for the hospital system and, in particular, the occupation of ICU beds, as well as, above all, a reduction in mortality among these groups. The overall strategy of the Basque Government against the pandemic and its consequences is based on three pillars: The health point of view: the general strategy of care, hospital, ICU, vaccination; the conduct of tests and screenings; and the monitoring, monitoring and tracing of cases and close contacts. The socio-economic point of view: the Berpiztu plan and the budgets. And the point of view on governance and community contribution: the Bizi Berri plan. We have a two-phase target. First, place the cumulative incidence rate within 14 days below 500 cases per 100,000 inhabitants. Second, lower this rate to 60 cases. This is an objective shared by all institutional levels. Therefore, a goal of all in Euskadi, in each historical territory and in each municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, which was made by the Congressmen of the World of Maddalens, to resign the chief of health to the president." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u5	Good morning, everyone. Mr. President. Under the health department, we need a whole person more than ever. What happened at the EPE had stained the name of Osarides. And he who is now in the guidance of the department can no longer remain supported by that model of government, which has become more and more common to him who has been buried: Half true, lies, transparency, discontrol, immunity... Mrs. apple hasn't had a parrot to take care of the others. And so they've been removed from office several times and Sabas. Those who have been improperly vaccinated must assume responsibilities, whoever they are and who they are. But also those who have consented. Sabas had permission to insert into Santa Marin. And for that, he got vaccines from the Medical Department. He also recorded a video to show the insertion. At least it's shared, Miss Apple. But the chief clerk is the chief physician of health, Mr. Urkullu, as the vaccines from Guadalajara showed when they came to sign the bathrobe. But he has not been able to demand the cares he demands from others. In fact, you've been protecting this behavior. Can a president protect the American people, a chief physician who hasn't told the law the truth?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. And my compliments to Madame Irart, let her pass the house as soon as possible. Mrs. Ubera, the chief physician said the whole truth in her first scene, January the 20th, and in the second, January 27th. It is true that opposition has demanded its resignation. I am, alas, used to such a design before the accumulation of votes, and only if it has ever been carried out by it, I know not whether it has ever been of any importance to me politically. In this case, as in the former days, he has the entire President, the Basque All, and this time the entire support of the majority of this legislature. It's because he's actually told the truth and he's been through it with all the transparency. As the chief physician had said himself, the measures were immediately taken, and begged the authorities to leave the post. Here he dedicated the whole scene and information he had asked for, and he did not at all conceal or avoid problems. On the contrary, if there had been some mistake in the proceedings hitherto, he anticipated new measures of organization to prevent it from ever happening again. The Chief Physician is able to continue his office, and so will he. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u9	Mr. Urkullu, if Mme. Mrs Sagardui is unable to remain in office from the moment she lied in Parliament. Osakidetzagatik, herritarek momentu honetan inoiz bath gehiago konfiantza izan behar dutelako beraien osasun-agintarietan. Sinesgarritasun-kontua da. It has failed to respect the thousands of people in a vulnerable situation who must be vaccinated as soon as possible. Personal interests have prevailed over the preservation of public health. It is a matter of responsibility, Mr Urkullu. Basque citizenship deserves a government that does not lie to us. Basque society deserves an honest and honest government, a government that tells us the truth. It's clear that the apple lied when she hid part of the conversations that had been with Sabas in the parliament. Exactly what did he hide? One day he'd include the entire hospital. He hid that. So, Mrs. Coodui knew she wasn't doing the right thing. If the version of the cider had been correct, it wouldn't have been so. And that's in the transscription. At the 20th of January, Mrs. On the 22nd of January, he refused again in the beginning of Labi. On 27th he said: "Señalar, asimism, que los responsables del Departamento de Salud y los de losacemos de estes begin with el de 19 de mero, quedo que que que que que el de 15 myro lobía." And besides, the director of Osakidetza gives it for good. It says, "Perfect." The counselor also told us: "I can understand that it's more attractive for them than I knew, but no, I didn't know." And the next day it became clear that he knew. Look, you can't manage vaccines like they're yours, no, like you do with everything. Vaccines are the greatest treasure we have right now and that deserves to be managed responsibly. What happened with the residuation of the disease? Well, it's been the reflection of the rest of the pandemia. We know that such situations are very complex, and we can make mistakes, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Your time is over. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Ubera, vaccines and insertions. Look, there's five indisputable truths about vaccines. One, Basque 50,000 vaccine has already been established, and the criteria of priority and protocol are being filled up. Two, 50,000 vaccines have been handled and two major irregularities have been detected. The next day, when he recognised these two cases, the one presented a resignation, and the other was dismissed. Three, on the first day of his knowledge, the chief physician made an appearance in this parliament. He offered his first information, made an engagement to study the subject deeply, and demanded a second scene, which he did seven days later. The Chief physician played it with quick, strong, and transparency. Four, the health department's insertion strategy based on a strategic reservation, is confirmed that it was very appropriate. And he will fill five of them as expected by Euskaki. The Counsellor has told the truth and, in any event, has extended a consultation to the Public Ethics Commission by informing the Commission of the facts and decisions taken. On January 19, he learned of two facts: that of Basurto, for information from a trade union to a media outlet; that of Santa Marina, for information from the managing director himself. The next day, January 20, one was suspended and the other resigned. Fast and strong action. On the same day, the councilwoman informed this House with complete transparency, and a week later, January 27, she again appeared. He's told the truth. I reject false accusations made knowingly. The Basque Government, the Department of Health and Osakidetza will maintain the daily commitment to public health, health care, vaccination and strict compliance. With total delivery, honesty and transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, smooth seams of Susana Corcuera by Euscal Sociialists to the chief of Tourism, Commerce, and Constunam, which has recently been admitted to the Euscan Turism of Eusic Tourism." Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u13	Thank you, President. Egun where we're supposed to be. Mr Councilman, today the Basque Socialists wanted to talk about the government's response to the situation of tourism in Euskadi. Because we have been immersed for over ten months in a health crisis caused by the VOCID-19 pandemic and the Basque tourism sector has been one of the sectors most seriously affected by the limitation of its activity: first with a confinement decreed through the alarm decree, and then by a series of measures that were being implemented to prevent the extension of the coronavirus, such as the perimeter closures between provinces, between autonomous communities or between countries. We have also seen the balance sheet that Eustat made for 2020, in which it noted that there had been a 60 % drop in the number of admissions and overnight stays both in hotels and in agrotourisms. It is true that we were at that time talking about record numbers of visitors in Euskadi, with increases of up to 15% in February, a month before that decree of the state of alarm. Well, the truth is that the tourism issue has been in free fall since then. It is also a drop in the number of visits very important and, above all, in the indicator of international visits, which was one of the highest indicators at the time. The Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumers that you lead developed a resistance plan, a plan that had above all the fundamental objective of sustaining employment in the tourism, trade and hospitality sectors, and which at that time was endowed with 70 million euros. A few days ago, the Governing Council approved a direct aid order for Basque tourism. And, in addition, you were aware of a Tourism Support Plan in Euskadi, which was endowed with 21 million euros and which, in addition to direct aid, involved a series of measures of dynamism and promotion. Finally, we wanted to know in more detail, advisor, if possible, that Basque Tourism Support Plan; what measures it has, how it will materialize and what additional measures it entails. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. To answer, Mr. Hurtado, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. Indeed, this global pandemic is affecting many and various sectors of Euskadi's productive fabric. It is clear that some, due to their characteristics, have been particularly affected. And tourism, as you have explained, is one of them. Specifically, in Basque tourism we started from a situation of sustained and sustainable growth. In the first months of 2020, 3.2% increased in visitors, 3.8% increased in overnight stays, and it also did so in a deseasonal and sustainable way. The reports issued by our Euskadi Tourist Observatory, Enfokatur, indicate that before the pandemic, employment growth was higher than other sectors of the economy. Because this is a relevant sector for our territory, it represents more than 6% of Basque GDP and more than 100,000 workers. Euskadi, moreover, has been recognized by Exceltur as the most competitive autonomous community in the field of tourism in Spain. But now, in this new situation, what the sector needs are tools that allow it to resist. And that's where this Basque Tourism Support Plan is framed. A plan that is being recognized and valued both by the sector and in different news that have come out these days, recognizing the rapid and strong reaction that this department and this coalition government has had, in support of the support plan and this sector of tourism. It's a shared plan. We've heard the sector. And it is also a plan shared with the other institutions of Euskadi. This plan is currently endowed with €21 million, which is in addition to the €70 million of the 2020 Resistance Plan. The plan envisages three major actions. On the one hand, 18 million direct aid comes from extraordinary resources. The aid ranges from EUR 6,000 to companies from one to three workers, up to 15,000 to companies that exceed 49 workers. And with an increase in the case of travel agencies. Travel agencies are going through a very complicated situation. As you well know, they had to do – and so it should be by European law – returns to consumers and users, but they were not receiving those returns from tour operators and airlines. We have therefore wanted to highlight this difficult situation. And the aid that these mediating agencies will receive will reach up to EUR 20,000 per establishment, depending on the number of workers. On the other hand, we will commit to the plan of promotion and dynamism of the tourism sector, endowed with 3 million euros of the budget of the department. Our goal is to continue to recognize Euskadi as a safe destination. The Euskadi-Basque Country brand needs to be further strengthened when mobility is reactivated, through seasonal and recognition campaigns, and with the promotion, above all, of our leading professionals. And I'm done. As you are well aware, in addition to this tourism support plan, the deadline for applications for hospitality assistance expired on 10 December. Aid that we wanted to be agile and effective, so we simplified the administrative procedure and created a team of 20 people to work exclusively on the processing of this aid. The department's commitment was to start paying them by December 31st. And so we did. More than 2,800 applications were submitted in December, not forgetting that we are talking about a total of 9,850 applications. Today 60% of applications have been accepted and more than 5,000 are already paid as of 4 February. It is our intention that the new aid resulting from this Basque Tourism Support Plan, with the EUR 18 million in direct aid, will also be received as quickly as possible. The deadline for applications is 23 February. And I can inform you that in these three days we have already received more than 700 requests. And be assured that our efforts will continue to be this support to the sector, and to be as agile as possible, so that we can continue to help a sector that needs it and is experiencing very difficult times right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u16	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the hatred of Mi is made together by the members of the Podemos-IU party to the president about the trial against SARS-CoV-2." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u17	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Lehendakari jauna, covideren kontrako txertaketa-prozesua arautzen dueen protokoloa larriki hautsi da Euskadin. Last week, this past week, the entire opposition unanimously called for the resignation of the Health Adviser, precisely because of the scandal of privileged vaccines. Do you consider that the explanations and research carried out so far are sufficient? But, above all, what I want to ask you is: what political responsibilities, not just technical responsibilities, will be assumed from the government? Bada, weretzukizun politicokoaz galdetzen said, txertaketa-protokoloa betetzea ez dellako langileen ardura, baizik eta Gobernuaren ardura.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Miss Hatage, the medical department developed, and her explanations were quick and full. And new measures have all been set up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u21	Well, it is quite clear to me, from your answer, that you have no intention of assuming political responsibilities. The truth is that we had also made it quite clear that political responsibilities would not be assumed when we listened to his party partner, to the party president, to Ortuzar – in that usual mix between government and party – to say that the debate, the issue, was closed, the debate was closed here and now. And the truth is that we are used to it being so, to it being the party precisely who decides when the debates are closed, passing a lot from the debate and also from the opposition. You don't want to talk about the privileged vaccine scandal? Well, we're talking a week about street incidents, or criminalizing union struggles. That's what it's called putting smokescreens on. And smoke curtains are put on when you don't want to talk about things that, precisely, are splashing at you. And it is that in Euskadi they have been vaccinated illegally, and they have also been vaccinated ex-cons of their political party and high medical offices. Euskadin read kontra txertatu will say personsonak. Eta txertatu dira, maita ére legez kontra, zurre alderdiko zinegotzi izandakoak eta hainbat kargu mediko. This is called clientelism, and it is something that also happens in the Basque oasis. In any case, I do want to tell you one thing. And it's just that Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita is not going to let this matter go wrong, because it's true that we've lost count of how many people have been vaccinated, and whose people have been vaccinated. I'm sure you haven't vaccinated yourself. Nik, you've got to do this. Baina, egia esan, zalanteza zaigu zenbatek hartu duten txertoa, zure alderdiko zenbat personsonek hartu duten txertoa, éta gobernukide baten ere duen edo ez txerto hau. Because he's talking to us about internal investigations. But they are investigations that we do not know: neither what they are nor what their result is. As, by the way, the vaccination protocol. This protocol, which bears this watermark of a means of communication, is the only vaccination protocol we know, has not been denied and we assume it is valid. Of course, to know thus, in this way, the vaccination protocol of Euskadi, because the truth is that it is not very normal. In short, irregularity and opacity. Irregularate one age ilunkeria. It's not a way to address a pandemic vaccination campaign. We're asking for the pods, all the oppositions, Mrs. CDidui's resignation. Today, I ask you to get rid of him, to start working with the opposition as quickly as possible, and to find out what really happened. Because anger and sadness are not enough, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't know what irregularity, hairgality are, but I don't know what they are. However, the chief physician explained this legislature at once. The directors of St. Marina and the boars did not complete their criteria of pre-known priority, or any protocols sent them. They both know each other. Both of them are well known. derivatives of Europe, even of the Ministry, were accepted on December 2nd. Prioritys are fully known: "egolians, sociostantaries of professionals and Sanitarians." These two directors weren't among the prioritys, and they knew that. They were asked for responsibility, and they're not still working in Osapartics. The examinations and explanations given are according to the gravity of the irregular events which have been detected. The health department and the member of the Osar have dealt with care, firmness, and transparency. Look, Mrs Gorrotxategi, who is most harmed by this situation is the very structure of Osakidetza and its professionals, by the action of two directors with public responsibility who had to take into account the criteria of the prioritized groups and their action is not acceptable. These two people knew the prioritization criteria and protocols, which are public. The first is the Programme and Registration of Vaccines, in which the Ministry of Health participates, I insist, and seven communities – including Euskadi – and professional associations, dated 2 December and updated on 17 December. It's public. Look, the human factor must be considered. Yes, tens of thousands of professionals work in Osakidetza and hundreds of them must assume, with autonomy and immediacy and in moments of tension and unknown, management responsibilities. In this organization, as in all, and especially in times of daily fight against the virus, it cannot be guaranteed that errors or irregular behaviors will not occur. We have not hidden or denied errors or dysfunctions, we know that they can occur again, and I hope that it will not be in compliance with the established protocols, and I hope that, if necessary, they will not be serious. We cannot guarantee that there will be no failures or that all procedures will be perfect, on the contrary, everything is perfectable. If we can guarantee that if there are failures there will be a rapid reaction – as there has been – transparent clarification and, if they were serious situations – as it has been – clearance of responsibilities and rectification – as it has been. The facts show that there have been two serious irregularities, two of which have been detected, clarified and cleared up. The facts believe that the reaction has been immediate, forceful and transparent. And it will continue to be so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "Ask me, as Charles Iturgai, the popular Group Angulo Euscal, a member of the Ciudadans to the president, the rating of the President's having been aggravated by the irregular insertion of the Medical Department himself." My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President. I'm glad you're back to finally talk about this. Because many Basques feel that the Department of Health and Mrs. Sagardui are in a "save who can" in the midst of growing chaos. Chaos evident in the vaccination campaign. Plan, there's no, or at least they're hiding it. Yesterday, you will have read it, the medical union delegate and emergency doctor said: "Vaccination in Euskadi is disastrous and poorly organized." But there is no longer anyone who hides it after the crisis of irregular vaccinations: vaccinations with nightiness and secrecy in Basurto; vaccinations of managers and even messengers in the sight of the cameras, consented and known previously and with dozens of doses facilitated by the department in Santa Marina; resignations in Debabarrena of people exculpated by the counselor but then pointed out for their calamitous intervention in Parliament and then rebellion of health workers, union complaints – and eye! – probable criminal proceedings by the Prosecutor's Office. In a few weeks, unfortunately, as you say, Osakidetza has gone from being a pride for our society to discrediting the actions of its political leaders. That is why I ask you: how do you appreciate the crisis in the Department of Health, with Mrs Sagardui at the front, aggravated by the scandal of irregular vaccinations and their consequences?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u26	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Iturgaiz jauna, reappearance, as if he had not spoken about this matter publicly so far. Sir, there's no chaos, there's no crisis in the Medical Department. A health crisis, yes, a crisis of health. The Department of Health and Osar are to be faced with a global health crisis caused by a viral virus. I'll tell you what I've seen last year at the Medical Department and at Osar. I see people who are giving up everything with all their commitments and complete professionalism. Professionals, directors and superiors, all in the defence of public health, and euscal in full health system, and fighting against this pandemy. Mr. Iturgaiz, I think you're overacting. There is no crisis or chaos in the Department of Health and in Osakidetza, there is a crisis covid. I have a very high assessment of all the people who struggle daily against the covid crisis in the Department of Health and in Osakidetza. They have the confidence of the Lehendakari, the Government and the majority of this House, which represents the majority of Basque society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u29	Mr Lehendakari, do not mix the good work of the professionals, who certainly do, with what is happening with irregular vaccinations to, moreover, relativize this issue as your political party does. From the PNV we are told that the opposition is stretching the gum from vaccinations. And you yourself, here, remind us that there are only two vaccines of 45,000 and that that can't tarnish the counselor's work. Let's really talk about those dozens of irregular vaccinations, see if they're insignificant. Because if there were two out of 45,000, then why do you have to resign Maiz and Sabas, if there were two out of 45,000 in total, Mr. Urkullu? If there were two out of 45,000, then why does the Osakidetza Directorate threaten its PNV partner, Mr. Sabas, according to him, in the purest Mafia style? And if it was two out of 45,000, then why is the counselor lying to her first saying she doesn't know anything, then that she knew but didn't authorize it, and then she sends the TV to record the show and the performance in Santa Marina? Mr Urkullu, you must act, lehendakari. And you know that the councilwoman should be a former councilwoman by now. It's a crucial moment, lehendakari. Mrs Sagardui has not been able to live up to the truth, she is under suspicion and unable to lead the fight against the pandemic. Today, the feeling of the Basques is that the vaccination plan does not exist, or perhaps there is more for some than for others, perhaps more for former leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party in sanitary political positions fingered, than for the common mortals on this earth. Where, then, is your demand for exemplary, lehendakari, to a Basque society that largely complies with the rules? What about your exemplaryness, yours, that of your Government? Do you really think your counselor has acted well in front of that go and come from unchecked vaccination while they were diverting vaccines in view of the cameras? Do you really think that's the right thing to do? I'm listening to you this morning and you're in denial. Denialist of this scandal, because Basque society is demanding political responsibility, Mr Urkullu. And you said it yourself, "Rigor and transparency." Well, out of honesty, rigour, transparency, accountability, the Counsellor must assume the political responsibility for this chaos and resign. Or be stopped by you, Mr Urkullu, because, listen, I tell you, many of us think you're already late, but better late than never. And if you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u30	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Iturgaiz, I thought you were going to conclude in your speech that lehendakari should be vaccinated. In any case, you have made mention of the good work of the professionals. And I say, "Good job of professionals and responsible positions." You've been talking about two vaccines. No, I'm talking about two serious irregularities. And to try to deny what you pose of chaos, crisis, look, the Department of Health and Osakidetza continue to function normally at a time of great difficulty. They work in the planning of all health care, such as the campaign of half a million influenza vaccines or cancer screenings, by citing actions – in addition to vaccination itself, in addition to primary care or hospital care – that coexist with the care of the coronavirus. And they also work in collaboration with the entire Basque health system as a whole. Osakidetza gains the confidence of the citizenry day by day, also for its planning, putting 50,000 vaccines, detecting two serious irregular cases and acting immediately and with all force. Osakidetza has been gaining confidence since March with its professionals, technical and managerial leaders, passionately dedicated to the cause of public health defense, to the fight against the pandemic, against an unknown virus and with serious health conditions. I share, I share with most of society, that Osakidetza is one of the most valued and socially trusted institutions, because when Basque citizens enter a health centre or hospital, they feel they are in good hands thanks to the professionals and the positions they plan and manage. There is no crisis in the Department of Health and Osakidetza. There is a crisis caused by a destructive and global virus that is efficiently addressed, in a fight without headquarters since the planning of the Department of Health and Osakidetza. I am so surprised at a crisis that does not exist in the department or in Osakidetza, and the disregard for its part of the reality of an organization that thus gains the confidence of Basque citizens in such delicate and difficult times for public health. But he gains it thanks to the work of professionals, professionals and the work of responsible public officials, too, for the planning of all this action against this deadly and destructive virus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, Madia Martíne, a member of the Mistho Group, a member of the House of Common-wealths, made of the President, of the stability of the Institutions, and of the People in the Institutions." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. Lehendakari. The new legislature begins as the previous one has ended, marked by the COVID-19 and by the reality generated by the pandemic. The Executive has become of special and important importance throughout the citizenry, but for the first time the decisions made by the Executive affect citizens from one day to the next. This means that people are more focused on institutions and that, in that careful look, there is a greater question on the part of the population. What are you planning, Mr Lehendakari, to ensure the credibility and stability of the institutions?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u34	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, all the public offices representing the Basque Government are committed to an ethical code, the assessment of which, if any, is the responsibility of a Public Ethics Commission. Citizenship relies on Basque institutions and, in particular, on the Basque Government. It trusts in its accountability for its daily activities, its transparency and its commitment to continuous improvement. And I recall the maximum assessments in the context of the European regions in the indices of international transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u37	Look, Mr. Urkullu, we can't go on like this. The criticisms of the various parliamentary groups to the Government today have been remarkable. I am referring to those who have a foundation, not merely opportunists or partyists. Issues, all of them, which you have to deal with and which you are most responsible for. I will remind you of some milestones which in Basque society are causing a more than obvious wear and tear on citizens, citizens to whom they are constantly held responsible, but who do not understand the measures imposed, as they very often contradict previous decisions. I'm going to list some facts to locate us. First: the situation in the Department of Health and Osakidetza, the vaccine disaster, the lack of a clear protocol, the low rate of vaccination, the number of resignations from major posts. It is, in short, an earthquake that does not stop. Every 15 days we learn of a new disaster, disasters that have to do with human resources and organization. You know it is, don't you, Mr. Urkullu? From Vox we read the interview in El Correo to Mr. Sabas the other day. All these issues are highlighted there and all the problems are highlighted. Have you read it? What are you going to do with the head of this department? Are you going to stop her? How do you rate these facts? Isn't it a disaster that's the most important department in the present that generates the most distrust? We have a second point: the appointment of the coordinator of the Technical Committee of COVID-19, Mr Jonan Fernández. We repeat: a man without scientific background. How can we explain to society that a gentleman without scientific analysis has to coordinate the measures and decisions taken? Perhaps this null capacity is the one that is leading us to this chaos. Could be, right, Mr. Urkullu? Thirdly, the Government's acceptance that the measures are based on a report by the University of Pennsylvania that there is no investigatory follow-up on the origin of the contagion. How can we explain the sentence imposed on the hotel store without the existence of specific certainty that this is where the contagion takes place? What role does this committee of experts then have, if all is based on reports from Pennsylvania University and WHO? And, on the other hand, another point, the embarrassing video of several politicians of his party, the PNV, from the doors of Sabino Arana's Foundation in breach of the COVID-19 rules and telling people who recriminated him from the windows that the restrictions were not for them. I think I remember that among these politicians were Rementaria, Ortuzar and I think Mr Esteban too. Were you aware of these facts? I could list many more events, but time runs counter and gives us no more. After all this, Mr Urkullu, is this the idea of the Basque Nationalist Party to guarantee institutional credibility?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u38	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Martinez, the truth is, you surprised me. I was surprised by the mention to the University of Pennsylvania. It's the first time I've heard about the University of Pennsylvania, everything else I could already assume, I could imagine, but not the University of Pennsylvania. In any case, the Department of Health and Osakidetza have acted very rigorously. They have taken steps at all times, they have reported on them, they have updated them when necessary to prevent such situations from happening again in the future. He is acting rigorously and with planning. The Department of Health and Osakidetza have the confidence of Basque citizens, they credit that trust with their public service to citizens every day. Look, am I talking about rigor? Rigor means having mechanisms to react to non-compliance with a protocol. That's how it's done. And as soon as the two serious irregularities were detected, a quick response was activated and responsibilities were demanded. The action has been immediate and forceful; and the reaction has therefore been exemplary and exemplary. The facts in the hospitals of Basurto and Santa Marina in Bilbao are already mentioned. You ask for the measures to be taken. It was the councilwoman herself who explained here and made known the measures put in place. The internal organisational methodology of the vaccination that was being used and corresponding to the influenza campaign has been updated. The responsibility for vaccination has now been centralized in the Osakidetza Assistance Directorate, the protocol on relations with integrated health organizations and health centres has been updated, and the means and controls have been strengthened so that this does not happen again. Apart from all the considerations you have made to the Basque Nationalist Party, and so on – which I am not going to enter into this game – I would like, Mrs Martínez, not to repeat these kinds of problems that have occurred again. In any case, I can assure you and all citizens that the controls are working and that the Basque Government is committed to transparency and honesty. I can also assure you that Osakidetza will continue to function at full performance, meeting all people – not just those of the PNV – and all people who need its services, and that we will meet the vaccination schedule as planned, and that it has proved successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "The question is, that the members of the legislature of the Obi-Catheron shall be assembled to the President, with the responsibility of the disaster of the Horsebar." Right there, please. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u41	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, President Ukullu. Tomorrow year of the disaster of the Horsebar. Let's go back to Solozin and Beltránds before we start our condolences. On February 6th, while the Basque Country was staring at the Cavalry, you were talking about elections. In an unforgettable mistake, the first words about the horsebar, the ungoverned, Twitter. Eight days later, when things were far from repairing, you apologized for the possible mistake in the appearance of the legislature, but as the explanation was given, there was no mistake. Perverse syllogism: "I ask forgiveness for what we have done wrong, but we have done nothing wrong. So I apologize... for nothing." In spite of the fact that the control had failed, though it had caused a great deal of damage to the decoination, there was no mistake. From that point on, I've put a lot of energy and resources in it, and I'm sure he's working on the train, but he's also taking responsibility to the Verter Company. A week after the inspection the unopenable file was opened. There was nothing more to be said about the fun of the company I hadn't seen before. The court's unquestioned arrests. Ad-hoc reports. There's been a lot more of it, but we want to know before we go on, on the anniversary, what you're doing with the management of the horses.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u42	Thank you, Mr. Otero. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Otero, I also use today's opportunity to remember the missing two people, and to confirm or confirm my condolences. As you ask me, on the 18th of the year before, on February 18th, I made a scene with three chiefs, including Verter Recycling Company. I even introduced my commitments to Red-Mingerk. On February 6th, I decided to create a crisis cabinet together with the Viska Fordala. After this our first decision was to create a crisis table to answer its priorities: the two workmen had disappeared to look for the garbage and the ovacity of the whole neighbourhood to guarantee security and protect public health. Here, to form a technical committee, which was assembled at the First Table, and assembled at the Horses, to inform them of the scene in the townships. The company had to take care of things that didn't take place. And during all these months, I'm sure I've been working all the time. It is true that here in the legislature we apologized. But it's true, too, that we accepted the mistake. However, as you know, the question is in court, and the court will clear up all former cares. In the meantime, we're still working on our second staff's search jobs to secure security at the dump and develop a new trash policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u45	We, Mr. Urkullu, can't do optimistic ratings. A year later, Mr. Urkullu, the body of Joaquín remains buried, the entire system of manufactured waste is in an exceptional condition, the environmental deficiencies are not over, the subject in court, the European Board, without publishing the result of the peritage, you have not given me the information demanded by the legislature in October... But you're always looking for responsibilities outside, with the Horselands and the Pannonians and all of them, when the company isn't the community, the opposition... There's always someone to blame for. And you, Mr. Urkullu, are sad one day, the other is angry, the other you apologize... Respectable everything, of course. But apart from feeling, you have political responsibilities. And you need to talk about them too. Because in Zaldibar, in the absence of much clarification, there is evidence: the landfill collapsed. And we'll see if the company has criminal responsibilities, whatever. But in addition to these alleged illegals, in order to make a landfill fall – which does not happen in a day or two – they have to fail the public control systems, either because the control instruments were not applied diligently or because they were insufficient. In any case, it requires taking responsibility and improving the system, in addition to causing feelings, no matter how noble they are. And we want to get to the bottom, because we have to find Joaquin. And to the bottom of the truth. And I don't know why the dump fell. But what I do know is that no one had enough elements to say – as Mr Arriola said – that the violations detected were not the cause of the collapse. For a simple reason: the causes are not determined. That's right, there are threads to pull, a lot to clear up. Lakua knew that tens of thousands of tons of organic sludge were entering each year. Lakua allowed – through administrative silence – techniques for mixing waste contrary, in principle, to the European directive. Lakua knew that the filling rate was abnormally large and, once collapsed, we know that he had lump errors with asbestos and dioxins, among other issues. The controls failed and the uncoordination had consequences. And no responsibilities were cleared. We must continue to investigate for democratic hygiene and there must be no majorities or pandemics to prevent it. I'll finish with three requests. One, follow the search until Joaquín appears, as the neighbors say. Two, don't disturb you there. You've got a hand in it. And three, light up the political responsibilities.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u46	Thank you, Mr. Otero. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Otero, I appreciate you respecting my feelings, more when I express them when you ask me about my opinion and my feelings. In any case, I would like to emphasize to you that the Government is fulfilling its commitments. Until the 16th of August, I believe that everything we did is evident. But in addition, I would like to stress that on August 16th the working teams found Alberto Sololuze and, as up until then, the search for Joaquín Beltrán remains unabated. Some doubted, last year, that if the elections were called for 5 April, we would proceed to the search until 5 April and then we would forget. In parallel, the Basque Government had informed the judicial authorities of all the facts and had transmitted to the Office of the Prosecutor updated information on the proceedings. In the same vein, information was provided to the European Commission on 30 June. And as we committed at parliamentary level, the Government has requested external audits and causation reports. And this documentation, held by this House and the Office of the Prosecutor, concludes that, first, the legal requirements are met and meet the requirements laid down in the European directives on landfills and industrial emissions; and, second, they also comply with the provisions of the said European regulations. We will maintain the commitment we have made before this House, Mr Otero. Responsibility. Rescue of Alberto and now Joaquín, ensuring the safety of the operation and public health, having kept families informed on a timely basis. Rigor. We have opened proceedings for the truth to prevail and the facts to be judged. The Government will demand all responsibilities in a comprehensive, rigorous and comprehensive manner. Transparency. Improvement of waste and landfill management policies. Our determination is to improve management and try to prevent this from happening again. Responsibility, rigour and transparency. This is the behaviour of the Basque Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Time is up. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interregation, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, a popularist, a member of the Ciudads to the chief of vice presidents and security departments, the organization of prison services, the regulations, and the resources of human resources." Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Members of the Government, Mr Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen. An appeal is made to this House for the Government to express its opinion, so that the Government can explain its purposes regarding the transfer of material and human resources for the exercise of powers relating to the organization, regime and functioning of prison services, which is often referred to as the transfer of prisons. The truth is that I initially doubted who to direct the inquiry, because initially I understand that there are at least three councils or departments involved: I thought of Mrs Artolazabal, because in the end it seems that it will be up to her to manage this sector, this area; I also thought of Mrs Garamendi, because indeed there are some technical issues here that need to be established, and I also thought of Mr Erkoreka, as vice president that, according to the decrees of structure and others of the Government, it seems that he is responsible for carrying out the subject of transfers a little bit. I even thought about Mr. Lehendakari, didn't I? But well, to Mr. lehendakari, today quite a lot of wood is already being given. In any case, another day we'll have a chance to discuss it, won't we? But, finally, I thank Mr Erkoreka, to whom this inquiry was initially addressed, for the kindness of announcing that the Government had established that it would be up to Mrs Garamendi to answer this question from the Government. Well, history is well known. Statements by prominent members of the central Government and the Basque Government, echoed by the media, concerning a final transfer of human and material means to complete or establish what would be the operationalization of the prison services by the Basque Government authorities, have been intensified for months, has it not? What's usually called a prison transfer. In the past parliamentary term, this Parliament held a full monograph on the prison model we need in Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa – this was the title – in which a number of resolutions on this issue were adopted. There is also a document out there that, well, was circulating in certain means; a document that I had access to, which the Directorate of Criminal Enforcement did – there is a mistake, by the way, in the inquiry, it was not the Directorate of Prisons, it was the Directorate of Criminal Enforcement – where there were also some aspects relating to the model that the Basque Government seemed to be trying to establish, other than the central model, in the case of Euskadi. But there are a number of elements – I think they are of sufficient complexity and importance – that this documentation has not addressed and these debates have not addressed. In the various appearances on these transfers there has always been general criticism of the refusal of the incumbent governments to establish or complete certain transfers of means to carry out the powers already recognized in the Statute, has it not? We must remember the competence of the current Statute; then there are no transfer decrees, where a negotiation takes place because, after all, there is a negotiation with all the autonomous communities in this case. What worries me about this is the way in which these kinds of negotiations are conducted. They are always dark, without light, without tachygraphs, and I am concerned that we never think of how competition will be best exercised or, above all, how better, more efficiently, a certain competition is exercised by the administrations, whether the central, the autonomous, hear, could be the foral, the local, etcetera. Apart from, politically, advisor – I am allowed the license –, but the topic is always presented this of the transfers of competences – forgiveness – of the transfer of media, as a matter of grievances, that if it is pending, that if such... There's always 30 skills left, there's always 30. I mean, they can transfer 10, 15, 12, but then again, they always show up and there's always 30, that's another matter of interest too. You promised us a legal report signed with the names and surnames of the authors. Finally, we are waiting for it in the committee; I suppose they will be finalising it or revising it. And, well, we have this transfer that we heard from the press. We have heard from the press and it is a subject that I have tried to follow very closely, I have followed very closely. Some question came out in the initial appearances of the counselor, it was said that it would already be spoken, that such; but suddenly we find out, as always by the press, that it seems that next month, in March, this transfer will be completed or established. On 30 December, we learned that there appears to be a draft between the central Government and the Basque Government on this issue. On December 30, man, I think people, all in general, are a little bit into other things; but, well, it's done on December 30. I, of course, am really interested in this issue. I've tried to investigate it, but here, actually, I see quite opacity in the process itself. It's not a personal criticism, much less. I also think that this is a shared responsibility, in this case, for the Basque and central governments, for opacity and improvisation in the way of carrying out a transfer of this nature, which is delicate in many respects but which is also technically complex. So, I've tried to gather the necessary information. I tried to see if there was a white paper in Irekia, because no, I didn't find anything. That would be a pretty good custom on the part of your department, to implement these kinds of customs in order to then be able to debate among all, which when we present from the opposition some initiative always say that we never propose improvements, for listen, here it is. Moreover, it has not been updated for quite some time. I thought, well, maybe in the budget process something comes up. As in the budget procedure, they set out a clause-password for reallocation of funds and, I mean, it has perhaps been established that in the event of the transfer of resources, there will also be a possible reallocation of resources according to the means, right? Neither. Then I said, well, I'm going to look at the Law of Bodies and Scales to see if it's here, nor have I seen any specific bodies for the issue of prisons. I mean, well, the councilwoman will inform the Governance Commission, either. I've seen you haven't been informed about this, have you? I've gone to all of them. I mean, well, I'm gonna ask the officials, they don't know the officials either. I mean, man, unions have to know. Come on, yes, the unions have met very recently, but at least what they pass on to me is that there is – or is what I have understood – very little information. I mean, well, let's also ask at the central level to see if there's anything out there. It seems to be – and so I have heard – that yes, last week they got in touch at the technical-administrative level, to check, above all, levels and wage supplements, I don't know if the thread of this inquiry or they had thought about it. But, in any case, this is – the draft that seems to have been negotiated between the two governments – closed to lime and chant, hidden. And I think it would be very convenient if it were public and, above all, that we could discuss it and see under what conditions this transfer of means will occur. I believe that what has always happened here is what happened with the skills and the transfers of media; this is not just the responsibility of this government, this is a widespread thing in this country. We have always built the state of autonomy by pointing out the different political governments to "see what skills I get and see if in the negotiation I get a little bit more". And, in the end, these are so many politicians who are aiming at the electorate, "see if we can get anything else from the central government." But there are so many issues that are open and that I believe the Basque Government has to define and on which it has to report to this Parliament. Then, on the next shift, I'll give you some data, so I want to listen to you first to see what you have to tell us. But, finally, in order to know honestly what the Government's position is in this regard, this question is formulated. That is why I am very interested and I believe that this Parliament and society, the civil servants, are all interested in knowing what the purpose of this government is about how, that is, how the transfer of material and human resources will be carried out to Euskadi for the exercise of these powers relating to the organisation, regime and functioning of the prison services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u50	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. To answer, Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u51	Mr. President, chiefs, members of the Parliament, Mr. Gordillo, good morning. As we have said more than once in the presence of this parliament, it is clear that the design of the Eucomunion is: To accept it in 1979, and to fill up the state of Guernica that remains to be a day's end. 41 years ago the eucalycal society confirmed it, and yet more than thirty transfers have not been completed. To do this, we would like to do the transfers that are not yet made, copy them, and bring them back. That's one of the priorities of my fun and the department I run. This is how it is recorded in section 146 of the government program. As you also know, we have previously agreed on a timetable and blocks of subjects to carry out the transfers. One of the subjects covered by this timetable, as you indicate, is that of the management of prisons. He asks me specifically about the Government's purpose in the way in which the transfer will take place. In response to your question and in order to be aware of the difficulty and silence involved in the whole negotiating process, I believe that it is appropriate to break down each and every step of this procedure. As you are well aware, the second transitional provision of the Statute of Gernika contains the basic provision for the transfer of functions and services to the competences of Euskadi. It also provides that all acquired rights, of any order and nature, which at the time of the transfer have the personnel assigned to the State services or other public institutions covered by the transfer shall be respected. Indeed, we share, first of all, the view that the Basque Parliament, since its monographic plenary on 13 March 2019, has, to date, examined only the model associated with the prison policy of Euskadi. Sailburu Artolazabal, Councillor for Equality, Justice and Social Policy, is the person responsible for dealing with the details of what will be a new public policy for which this Government is entrusted once the transfer takes place. We also share the reference to the important technical and administrative complexity of the transfer, any transfer. Before, and very much in spite of the delay and the time that has elapsed in order to be able to address this issue, it is necessary that, definitively and in bilateral negotiations, we reach an agreement on the functions and services which the Basque administration must assume in prison matters and which must cease to exercise in Euskadi the State administration. All this, I stress, in application of the Statute of Gernika. Our purpose, therefore, is to achieve within the Joint Transfer Commission – provided for in the Statute – the relevant agreements between the two governments on the human and material means that exist to exercise the competences of Euskadi. It is our formal purpose, for which it is interested in its inquiry, to draw up and approve the text of an agreement expressing at least the following six extremes, which are those explicitly provided for in Royal Decree 2339/1980, approving the rules for the transfer of services from the State to the Basque Autonomous Community. First, the competence to enforce the law of the State in prison matters, with reference to the provisions of the Statute which contain it (articles 10.4 and 12 of the Statute). Secondly, the designation of the services and institutions to be transferred, with their name, organization and functions. The functions of management, supervision, organization, economic and administrative management and inspection of the prisons located within our territory will therefore be transferred to Euskadi under the legislation established by the State. In addition, the functions reserved by the State will be detailed, essentially, the legislation and exercise of regulatory authority in the matter of prisons, as well as the establishment of coordination criteria and the corresponding forms of cooperation, with specific reference to Royal Decree 1436/1984, on provisional rules for the coordination of prison administrations. Thirdly, a detailed inventory of the State's assets, rights and obligations attached to the provision of service in that territory or belonging, by any title, to the institutions that are transferred shall be collected. All this by establishing the subrogation of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi in its ownership. The fourth of the elements to be detailed are the nominal relationships of staff seconded to the services and institutions being transferred and the ratio of vacant jobs, with their respective data. In addition, fifthly, the ratio of current year budget appropriations to be committed will be detailed, as they reflect the total annual cost at State level associated with the functions and services to be transferred, for the purpose of calculating the portion of the quota to be deducted. Sixth and last place, the date of preceptivity of the transfer shall be fixed with the signature and taking of the relevant minutes of delivery and receipt of the files and documents annexed thereto. With regard to the assessment of the services transferred to Euskadi, the Economic Concert provides for a procedure which starts from two certain magnitudes to be calculated: the total charges constituting the State budget of expenditure and the charges assumed by the Autonomous Community detailed in the transfer decrees. For the proper application of this formula, they should indicate the full budgetary allocation at the State level corresponding to the transferred services. For its part, Law 11/2017, approving the methodology for marking the Euskadi quota for the five-year period 2017-2021, regulates the effects by variation on the competences assumed. These valuation techniques have an explanatory clarification in Agreement 1/95 of 15 March amending the method for calculating the cost of services transferred to the Autonomous Communities. The agreement contains a specific section on the application of the methodology of the system of the Concert and the Economic Convention. We refer to these rules as regards the assessment of services. The Autonomic Process Act, in turn, stops at staff whose services are transferred and who become dependent on the autonomous communities, as well as warns of the restructuring of the State administration as a result of the transfer of services. As can be seen, the process of transfers, as far as their content is concerned, is completely transparent and is perfectly protocolised throughout this compendium of rules to which I have referred. It is true that the cold reading of these precepts leaves ample room for bilateral contacts in the negotiation and concretion of the contents set out in the agreement reached by the Joint Committee on Transfers. To this end, the representations of both administrations hold technical meetings, working groups, where both functions and services to be transferred, assets, personnel, obligations and contracts are reviewed and evaluated, in addition to their corresponding overall economic valuation. As important as materializing the transfer is to do so with complete legal certainty and in optimal conditions. Today we have a draft outlining the functions and services to be transferred, the scheduling of technical meetings and the resulting technical presentations. In the case of the enforcement of prison legislation, a series of periodic meetings have been held until an agreement is reached, if possible before 31 March 2021. As soon as this agreement has been reached within the Joint Transfer Commission, it will be the respective governments that approve and publish the rule on which the agreement is annexed. At this point, and in conclusion, I would not like to leave it unemphasized that, while it is important to have an agreed timetable to guide us in the work of each of the transfers – where the transferal political commitment on the part of the State has already been embodied – it is equally important to concretely define and technically define each and every detail that I have come up with in this first intervention. At the time when the transfer between prison and any other transfer is made, we shall make all the effort to complete the expected deadlines, but our priority will always be to do the transfers under the best conditions and with the complete legal security. I hope with these explanations and specifications, Mr. Gordillo, that you have satisfied your doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Well, Mrs. Garamendi, it's clear to me that you don't have it clear. It is clear to me that they do not know where they will be aired on this issue, which, I insist, is delicate. You have always sold it as a political issue and so on, the Statute and so on, okay, great, but this is a competition and it is a job of the administration – I insist – delicate and complex. And the instruction manual we know, but to implement this we have to take into account a number of issues that, according to what you have answered, do not seem to have taken into account. Let's see, there's the issue of real estate, that is, buildings. In addition, in the press release they released in December, they did not start with officials, but they started with the media, buildings and so on. I do not know what you are expected to find in the prisons that are based in the Basque Country, but they also need reforms. And that's gonna cost money, I don't see a forecast. There's a few more bids out there, I imagine they'll subrogate. Anyway, okay, but we need a forecast here. I'll tell you why. In the case of inmates, there are about 1,300 inmates in Euskadi, of which about a little more than half are in third grade, which means that in prisons there are really less than half of this figure permanently, about 600. I do not know if you are aware that the first, who are few, and the second degrees of people to whom they would be entitled to be in Basque prisons – by registrations, because they have their lives here and so on – are sent to prisons outside of here, especially those who are in second degree. It is true that there are 78 who are members of the ETA band and others, but there are 2,500, in general terms, second degrees who are still in prison, stay overnight and all, their full day, and are in other prisons around. I mean, I don't know if you've realized that the day after this competition is assumed the population in Euskadi is going to increase from 1,300 people to almost 4,000. That will be the effect of the assumption of competences, from 1,300 to almost 4,000. The seconded staff are currently slightly more than six hundred and peaks, seven hundred, according to the last RPT. There goes the thing, about 700 officials, it's not much more. This will also have a cost. Also, I insist, I believe that an important opportunity has been missed, in the Body and Scale Act, to clarify the situation of the officials, who have been kept in this whole process, the two governments, in a situation of quite opacity. He says that the acquired rights will be recognized, but, man, some trouble is having with the officials handed over from Justice, isn't it?, that there is some lawsuit out there. That this isn't that easy, this isn't that easy. That is, the prison population is tripled, we are not going to have enough officials, prisons are outdated, they are old, they are old and a large number of prisoners are transferred to other prisons. Because the system currently in place in Euskadi is not enough to give way to this situation. That is why the global system in the end allows for an exchange of prisoners, etc., which makes it possible for us in Euskadi to have this situation. I'll tell you what I think's going to happen here. It's improvising on the march. This is a competition that has a high political content, okay. They're improvising because I don't think they've done a media analysis. It is going to increase the effective prison population in Euskadi, but it is going to triple; that is what is going to happen. Officials will also have a significant workload. And then now, the last thing. I believe that the model you basically have for this is to privatise it to the third sector. They want to leave the officials, simply, to manage the paperwork and so on; and then it is the third sector, possibly associations and so on – which are related to certain groups, at best, prisoners – that they manage the part of the reintegration. I insist, the officials who are at the moment are the ones who play the role of social reintegration. That is why it makes me very concerned and I hope that some additional information can be made available to me at the turn of the reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u54	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u55	President andrea. Mr. Gordillo, you were asking me about the way we planned to do it. And that's what I intended to move you. I'm sorry I didn't satisfy your interest. In view of the literal nature of the question, I have devoted my entire intervention to carefully demarcating the regulatory framework governing the way in which to deal with the transfer of competition. It has also pointed out the contents which, in our view, should be expressed in the text of the agreement which could be drawn up and signed after the agreement between the parties had been reached: competition, designation of services, inventory, nominal relations, budgetary appropriations, dates of transfer. In short, the steps are rated, and we clearly see what accounts must necessarily appear in the text of the agreement to make the transfers in full assurance. I've been trying to explain all that to you. The right scope is clear, there is no dispute about it, much more about a subject already transferred to Catalonia, the organization, management, organic structure, working, guidelines. Besides, as I defended it in the representation of the strategic furrows, the management of different matter from the Basques has a direct influence on the nearness and well-being of the population. And closeness is connected with responsibility and public commitment. But it gives me the impression that you have raised this question not to know how we intend to work and materialise the transfer, but to ask us your position, or that of your parliamentary group, on the materialization of the transfer. I'm not gonna deny that I'm worried about you as a counselor. We are talking about complying with what was agreed and approved by referendum more than 41 years ago, compliance with the Statute. I am concerned that we deviate from that full fulfillment. As you have indicated, this House has expressed its views on the characteristics which it believes should have a possible Basque prison model. You seem to want to talk about the substance, although in the formulation of your question you have referred to the form. But in the past parliamentary term, this House has also spoken on numerous occasions about compliance with our Statute. In each and every one of them, the Basque People's Group, the group to which you are now affiliated, not only stood aside, but also cast its vote against. Right now, Mr Gordillo, we are in the process of negotiation. I think I've been exhaustive enough to detail every step we're taking. This Government has for the first time made a commitment by the Spanish Executive regarding the need to comply with our Statute. Commitment embodied in a work schedule that, due to the exceptional pandemic situation, had to be delayed for a few months, something perfectly understandable. So, when it comes to such a narrow issue and political and legal significance, it is no wonder that now that we have an agreed transfer timetable, let us intensify the dialogue in order to close a chapter that has always advanced for the Basque commitment to a State on too many occasions reluctant. Political commitment is clear and at the moment the relationship is fluid. We are close to taking another important step forward along this whole 40-year road, nothing more and nothing less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. 9th point on the subject list: "Interpelation of Jon Hernandez Hidalgo together by the law of the Podemos-IU members of the Second Vice President, and the Chief of Staff and Empedergue, concerning keeping professions with women and children's rights." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u57	Thank you, ma'am. On 21 January, Vicelehendakari andrea, a protest took place in front of the Basque Government headquarters in Bilbao by various groups for the defense of social rights and, together with them, some feminist organizations, to denounce a cut in access to income guarantee income. This is a cut, according to reports, for families made up of a person, or for families made up of an adult person and children over 24 months of age. A cut that mainly affects women, women and minors, as well as dependent persons. This cut is basically the result of an instruction from the Basque Employment Service which entered into force on 14 December 2020. You were already the Basque socialists in charge. An instruction that implies a new Lanbide criterion that is harmful to women and children. And especially harmful to the most vulnerable, single-maritime families and also, as I said, dependent on those affected. A real example, surely the most common of those that are being given and will continue to be given if you do not take action and reverse this situation. A woman with a young child of two years and a day, or a girl of two years and a day that – due to the crisis by the covid pandemic, for example, or for any other reason – cannot sustain her basic needs and is forced to return to live home with other family members, can no longer receive the income guarantee income, so she loses this benefit and its financial autonomy, and becomes dependent on her family members. We therefore believe that this creates serious situations in vulnerable families. So far this did not happen and they were entitled to the benefit for a period of time – it is true that for a limited period of two years – but it was a right at the end of the day, why have they now lost this right? The application of the interpretation you make of the corresponding income guarantee income decree will leave many people in need of this benefit hanging; and, as I say to you, especially women, minors and dependent persons. It is hard for this to happen precisely in this pandemic era, in which all the alerts are triggered against the increase of poverty; in which reality warns us of families who are being forced to return home to grandparents, grandmothers or even to share flats, because it is not possible to face abusive rents, to climb the bill of light, etc. Many families are awaiting employment regulations or even families who, in the face of what has happened in residences, are taking care of their dependent relatives. This change of interpretation is not understood, except from a logic of narrowing the scope of the right of citizenship to income security income. We ask you not to tighten rights, Mrs. Mendia. If there was an interpretation before which these people could claim the benefit, we wondered, and asked you, why not now? We are faced with a case in which, by means of an instruction – which is not publicly accessible and, above all, is of a lower rank than the decree and also the corresponding criteria document – it seems that people who, in our opinion, do not have the right to do so are being left without a right. And one issue that is also inexcusable to us is that we believe that this is an instruction that directly violates the obligation of Lanbide, as well as of the entire Basque Executive, to take into account the principle of the best interests of the child when issuing any legal act that affects the protection of children or the restriction of their rights. Limiting access to income-guarantee income for boys and girls because their mothers and parents are denied the right to GIR and, therefore, are also denied them, is contributing to institutional violence against children, deepening one of their most unjust expressions, such as child poverty. It's a step back, I could even say immoral. In the past legislature an agreement was reached in this Parliament, the result of an initiative proposed by Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita on the incorporation of the best interests of children and adolescents into all public policies and actions of the public administration. And it does not seem that this is being done by the government. It called for the development of a plan to allow for such incorporation on the basis of the recommendations made by Ararteko on numerous occasions. In particular, as a result of recurring complaints to Ararteko concerning suspensions, denials and terminations of income security income, Ararteko issued general recommendation 2/2015 of 8 April 2015 on the obligation to consider the best interests of the child in public policies and, in particular, in the income security system. It included concrete principles and guidelines for action to ensure that the protection and defence of children's rights were a central focus of public policies aimed at reducing child poverty and supporting families, urging an appropriate balance between universal policies aimed at promoting the well-being of all children and specific approaches aimed at supporting people in a more vulnerable situation. And we think that, of course, this is the case, Mrs. Mendia. The inquiry that we have recorded, which you know, says textually: can you explain to us how the best interest of the child has been weighted in the approved instruction and which is resulting in Lanbide's denial of income security income for special cohabitation units? We think that it has not been weighted, that nothing has been weighted, in view of the result that we are seeing and that they are denouncing various groups. But we want to listen to him, we want to know his explanations. But, above all, we want to use it to tell you to put a solution to this, because it harms many people and the people who need it most, as I said, single-maritime families, women, minors and dependent people, people in very complicated situations to carry on in their day-to-day lives. We think that this type of cuts in rights and benefits by Lanbide cannot be a mark of the house, Mrs. Mendia. That is why we ask you, we ask you how you have considered it, but above all, we ask you to do what you have to do to reverse that situation that harms so many people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u58	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. To answer, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u59	Thank you, good morning. Thank you, Mr. Hernandez, for introducing you. The RGI reform, as you know, is in progress, to protect those who are not protected and who need protection, to be better in places where they are older and older, and especially in order to get that protection from fewer people. For our example is not only to guarantee revenues. We must also guarantee the right to society. The law of today has limitations, but it's one of our best investments. In this mirror, there are other communities, and the Spanish Government. But he has a way to improve because he's good and he can be better. The most important thing is to argue seriously. And if we are serious, we must say that there is no reduction, and that families without age are not excluded. And we'll have to say that new budgets will be better protected. These budgets will do so with 459.5 million euros, with more resources, with more amount in each household that needs it. And I hope next week that this decision, which is firm and which is already guaranteed, will have greater support. As a first point, this, Mr Hernández: we are accused of cutting the only ones we are going to make possible this increase in social investment. This argument would be worth more budget chapters, but let's go with the truths ahead. What brings us today has not been your concern in any conversation we have had in the days preceding this inquiry, in any request for information on your part. Because if there had been a request for documented information, I would have known that this is not just an investigation born out of the air, but that there is a ruling of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country from behind. It has not been your concern at any contribution you have made to the budget negotiation with this Government, from which we can deduce that what is presented today in such a bloody way to you was not so much three days ago. You ask me if we weigh the best interests of the child and I say yes. You doubt that the law protects single-parent families and I tell you not to hesitate. The current law protects the child, and the decree that develops it as well. And attend to single-parent families. And I'm going to go to the data: of the 54,747 collectors at the end of the year 20, 30%, up to 16,587, are living units with minors. Of these, 15,170 are headed by a woman, 93 per cent. And no, it is not a good data from the point of view of the risk of exclusion, because it shows once again the vulnerability of women. But yes, it is a good data from the point of view of protection, because we see that the system we have responds. So, those of us who have been building this system and who feel progressive, before we do any analysis we first recognize the virtue of the model and the commitment to improve it. But we will do so from that conviction, the conviction that it is one of the best investments we have made as a society. And I say this with absolute political and institutional conviction. And I say this supported, moreover, in the last survey of poverty and social inequalities in Euskadi, which is from the year 18. I read what he says about the income guarantee system that makes up the "RGI/PCV/AES", on the other hand, he is the only one who focuses his attention in a dominant way on groups with problems of access to well-being. 50.9% of benefits and aid are targeted at groups affected by real poverty at present, with another 35.9% in the absence of welfare and 12% combining a dominant welfare position with risk realities. This represents a concentration of 98.7% of the expenditure made on groups with the greatest social difficulties (...)". So the best interest of the child is protected by income security income. And it is not sufficiently protected by the current law, and that is precisely why we wanted to change it in the past legislature; and you, the parliamentary groups in this House, did not give us a chance. That's why we're going to change it in this one, and I hope this time you'll want to allow the change. That is the direct answer to the question you pose, beyond that in the justification tell what is not true, but you will have to know why. I would like to reiterate today that our determination is to achieve an income-guarantee law that, as we have said before, reaches out to those who now do not arrive but are in objective conditions of need, that reaches out more intensively to households where there are minors and older people, and that gets fewer and fewer people to need it because we have been able to generate decent employment conditions with decent wages. But this department is not going to take refuge in figures that answer that question directly, or that question all the assessments it has made. That is why, as you will know, the administrative process is already under way to reform and improve the system of protection in the terms in which I committed myself from the minute one of this legislature. Three weeks ago the previous public consultation was opened, followed by the order for the processing of the law and the presentation of a text which this Parliament will be able to discuss and to which its group, together with the rest of the House, will be able to contribute. This text will take as a reference the proposal of the last parliamentary term, the appearances that followed in this House, the integration of minimum living income and the meetings that I started having this same month with representatives of the third sector. That is the state of play, Mr Hernández. In the meantime, I'll tell you what we do. What we are doing is to comply with the current law and to comply with a firm sentence that says that the criterion to be applied in the case of single-parent families with children over 24 months of age is the one that is being applied. There are other judgments, of course, but that of the High Court of Justice is the final one, and that is what is recalled in the December inquiry. Because that court – Mr Hernández, I say to you for your knowledge – is the last competent body to interpret autonomous law and GIR is autonomous law. So if what you're asking of the Basque government is to prevail, the answer I have to give is no. If you tell me to attend to the new coexistence realities, I will tell you that we will do so, to which you quote and to others who may have special consideration of unity of coexistence. Because it is true, our income guarantee income reasonably covers people who live alone, who are the majority of those who receive these benefits. And it covers, in a weaker way, living units with children, whether single parents or not. That's why we decided in the last legislature to change the law. So what the sentence says and, therefore, the instruction, refers to the exceptions provided by the law and the decree that develops it in what has to do with the living units. What it says is that, in fact, in the same home there may be two beneficiary cohabitation units, among other causes, to protect a new reality, which is the birth of a child, so that that new mother can be emancipated. And sets the special protection time in two years. An exceptional measure in the face of an exceptional event that gives rise to a new family unit. And it's the one that applies, and it's the one that protects those families that I've mentioned before. This does not exclude that, for other reasons, there may be special cohabitation units with children under two years of age; at present we have 291 family units with these characteristics. And with that forward, I've already advanced what we want to do. I have done so in public at the hearings and in private at the meetings I have held with all of you. My department is in the solutions to problems and is already working on a consolidated model, which also has to integrate into a model that is under construction, which is the minimum vital income. A model that wants to reach out better to pensioners, to households with minors and that wants to focus not only on the right to an income but also on the right to social and labour inclusion. So far, the reality, the commitments to my department and mine. Our model for protection is in progress to reform and improve. It's well known. And I hope that the teams in this Chamber will argue and agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u61	Bai. Eskerrik asko, Mrs. Mendia. We will continue to ask you for explanations on the issues that seem appropriate to us by using the full powers of control. And, frankly, I am very disappointed that you understand that we are concerned about some issues based on previous requests for information that we have made to you. Look, I was aware of this matter last weekend, when we decided to question this situation. It's a situation that's hurting the most vulnerable people. And I think we'll agree on that. And, therefore, it seems to me to be a fundamental obligation of an opposition group to quickly question you knowing that there is a full control immediately that week. We have not come to discuss in political terms the income guarantee income. And I also find it equally disappointing that you, when faced with a very specific question on which we have asked you, open the question – and open it in addition to an accusatory way – that the fact that the best interests of the child are not incorporated into income-guarantee laws has to do with the fact that in the previous legislature we would not have given it a chance. It's not that we haven't given him a chance. It is that there was no agreement. I say that the same responsibility will have us as you when we have not reached an agreement. You say there are no cuts. We have come to talk about a concrete cut, which exists. I have heard your explanation of a sentence that obliges you to do so. But the cut is there. And what we ask of you is that you act with the utmost diligence, with the greatest speed. I'm not going to ask you to prevail. I could not know the sentence. I'm not going to ask you to prevail. But I'm asking you to explain. There's a sentence that compels. Previously you already knew that this issue could be addressed. And you've been leading Lanbide since September. And they knew this was going to have this result. And well, then, it has arrived. They could also have been anticipated. I am not going to ask you now, nor am I going to ask you for responsibilities because you have not anticipated this situation. What we have come to tell you is to do everything in your power to reverse this situation as soon as possible. Because they will lose the right to income guarantee income in the short term, before the reforms that you announce are made, families who need it; especially, single-maritime families, women with children and dependents. For a question of interpretation. That, all right, now there's a sentence behind. But it is a question of interpretation, in our opinion, moreover, absolutely unfair, and up to a month and a half ago it was interpreted two years and now it is interpreted two years of age. And for one thing that seems like this, so nimia, you're going to run out of this benefit a lot of people who really need it. That is why we have not come here to have a general political discussion on the income guarantee system. Moreover, every time we ask you about a matter related to this, you basically – and you have done so today, Mrs Mendia – put in our position virtually the frontal criticism of the income guarantee system. Something we've never done. Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita has never done so, has always valued the income guarantee income system we have. We criticise what we do not like and propose the reforms that we believe must be done. And in the previous legislature you proposed a concrete one. And we didn't share it and we said why. We didn't give them a chance or give them a chance. We had different visions. And let us hope that in this legislature, even if you have an absolute majority, we can agree, because it seems to us to be a very important issue. We have neither come to destroy their positions on income-guarantee income nor to make policy with them. It is neither a question of giving a chance nor of not giving a chance. These are different positions that we hope you will find a common ground this time. But there are specific issues that need to be addressed in the meantime. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u62	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u63	Mr Hernández, all this Parliament is debating is politics, because through politics we make public policies that benefit citizens and in all areas of life and the economy. It is therefore good that we speak from a political perspective, because it is politics that has brought us to this House. And, indeed, Mr Hernández, you say that you were aware three days ago, but I am a little bit following the activity of this House, I know that there is another group that has previously made a request for documented information; therefore, that group is aware that there is a sentence and there is a non-law proposal in this House on this very issue. But in any case, you tell me that you were aware of this three days ago, and I tell you that it is a judgment of the High Court of Justice that makes case law and closes any capacity to appeal to another higher court with regard to autonomous legislation. It is therefore up to the Basque Government to comply. And we have not changed the criteria, the criteria were established; and we have not made cuts, I insist. Therefore, the way we have to act best is to bring the income guarantee income law to its reform, meeting the deadlines committed in this House. And, therefore, it will come to this House at the end of this year in order to be able to approve it as soon as possible, insert in it the system – still pending full closure – of the minimum income living together with income guarantee income. For what purpose? With a goal that we shared in the last legislature and that was to reach people who needed it and to whom, with the current regulations, we see that we do not get, in particular, the elderly people and, in particular, the units of coexistence with minors. That, therefore, is the main objective of the reform that we dragged from the last legislature. And, unfortunately, these things happen because in the last legislature we were not able to reach an agreement. I am not going to go into who has the most responsibility but, in any case, this House was unable to reach great agreements in a legislature, precisely where opposition groups had a great chance of influencing government policies. And yet, it was a scarce legislature in legislative production and in large political agreements. On this occasion it is true that the Government has a majority and it is true that we have the hand stretched out to the groups of the House with the will to agree. But it is a will of agreement that has to go both ways and I trust that we can reach agreements. Therefore, what we want with this reform is to simplify the rules, in addition to achieving those objectives of greater coverage. We want to simplify the rules so that the procedure is simpler for the people who apply for income guarantee income, but also for the Lanbide workers who manage the benefits that Lanbide gives. And we want, as I said, to improve coverage by addressing specificities that we have been seeing that exist and that remain out of regulation. And we want to make a good management of both benefits that in Euskadi will receive Basques, that of the IMV and that of income guarantee income. I, of course, am not going to tell you how you have to oppose this and, of course, I am delighted to come here and answer your questions, your questions, not only because it is our obligation, but because you know that I have no problem meeting with the opposition groups and giving them, with absolute transparency, all the information about what actions my department is doing. I have simply been surprised by the lack of documentation behind the inquiry regarding such a substantial thing in this case; because we cannot be asked by the Government to comply with that sentence. And, therefore, we have nothing but to fulfil, while, as I say to you, there is the department's commitment to speed up the process of reforming the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act to the maximum. We will therefore have an opportunity to discuss this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, "about the future of the Survival Airport of the Economics of José Manuel Gilegas, Popular, Ciudadans." Mr. Gil, your word is yours. That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u65	Thank you, Madam President. We will put the question to the Minister of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport. Once again I bring back to this House the subject of the airport of Hondarribia. It is a subject that has a long history, as I suppose many of you know. For example, since 1993 alone, 38 initiatives have been registered on this subject, but since Mr Urkullu is lehendakari 22 initiatives have been registered in this House concerning this airport. And yet I bring it back because the problem is still there, it's unsolved and it's still a serious problem, at least for Gipuzkoa. Why is this a serious problem? Well, because he's letting himself die at the airport; because the airport is languishing little by little and is already in a rather deplorable situation. It was not intended to expand the airport track, which is the real and definitive solution. That is why, Mr Councillor, I am obliged to ask you again what action is the Government taking, or is it planning to take in the short term, towards the development and empowerment of Hondarribia airport? What are you in today's situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u66	Thank you, Mr. Gil. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u67	Thank you, President. Mr Gil, as you are well aware, this government does not manage the airport of Hondarribia. However, it is present in it through its participation in the company Ortzibia, which carries out functions of economic promotion of this airport within the framework that corresponds to it, and it does so together with the Diputación de Gipuzkoa, the Chamber of Commerce and the municipalities of Donostia-San Sebastián, Irun and Hondarribia. The pandemic context we are experiencing is having a very severe effect on many sectors of the economy and, in particular, on the air sector. Therefore, our activity is currently focusing mainly on limiting the impact of possible flight reductions by companies operating in Hondarribia and, in parallel, Ortzibia is working to ensure that, as soon as conditions permit, Hondarribia airport regains its level of activity and can even expand routes and services.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u68	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u69	Counselor, from Ortzibia, if you think so, we'll talk another day, because we think it's a topic that has a lot of fabric to cut. A society that has no headquarters, that has no employees, but that does have a budget. In any case, we will focus, if you will, on the subject of the airport. And, first of all, let me recall two historical events that have taken place in this House on this subject. 28 years ago, a parliamentarian asked in this room exactly the same question I just asked. And I realized after I did. That parliamentarian was called Gregorio Ordóñez, and last week this House paid him a well-deserved tribute on the anniversary of his murder at the hands of the terrorist band ETA. And his memory and memory continue to inspire many of us for their courage and integrity. The second historical fact I would like to recall on this subject is that on 30 January 2013, another Member, well known to the Councillor, again insisted on this subject with a similar question addressed to the then Councillor on the Environment and Territorial Policy. This MP was from the Socialist Party and his name was Iñaki Arriola. When he was appointed Territorial Planning Advisor, we all hoped that he would turn to the solution of the problem that he was so concerned about 8 years ago. But the problem is still there. It is therefore a recurring issue and a pending issue, one of the great outstanding issues in Euskadi, and I think it is high time, Mr Councillor, that once and for all this Government should take the bull by the horns and resolve this matter, managing the prolongation of the track, which is the real solution to this issue and which, paradoxically, was paralyzed by the agreement of the PSOE, which has been playing two sides on this issue for too long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u70	Thank you, Mr. Gil. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u71	Mr Gil, I really do not know where you see that the airport in Hondarribia is abandoned and that this government does not take this into account, because, apart from the special situation of 2020, the figures absolutely deny you. It is precisely 2019, the year before the pandemic, that is the record year of passengers at Hondarribia airport. A record that was in 2009 – at other times when it was up to me to take responsibility for transport – and that has been beaten, it was beaten, in 2019. At the current juncture we are in a particularly complicated situation, arising from the crisis of the covid. In this respect, the situation of all air transport in Spain is that there has been a reduction in passengers by between 70 and 80 %. And Hondarribia is no stranger to this, as it is no stranger to the rest of the airports we have in Euskadi and the set of airports we have in Spain. The fact is that, with the limitations that this airport has, with the management that has been carried out from the direction of it and with the support of the company Ortzibia – which works –, in recent years there has been an exponential growth of travellers in Hondarribia; and that is what this government has planned, to continue to support this management of promotion of the airport so that, in the coming years, the dynamics that had been achieved in the past years can be regained. To recover routes, to recover frequencies, to continue working as it is working, in relation to airlines to open new routes and services. And that's what we're working on and what we're going to continue working on for the future. You have no doubt that we are concerned about Hondarribia, as we are concerned about Bilbao airport and Vitoria airport, and that, to the extent of our capabilities – limited at this time because the management competence of airports is not yet in our hands – we will continue to work to develop that promotion of airports, as has been done in recent years. And we will try to overcome the possible obstacles for this to happen. To tell you, in the specific case of the airport of Hondarribia, that the situation it is going through is especially complicated, as for the rest of the airports. And in this regard, taking into account the situation, we made a contribution to the society Ortzibia of 75,000 euros, which is going to increase the year 2021 to 125,000 and we will continue to work, as I said, so that, as the situation becomes normalized, we can recover all the services and, in addition, incorporate new ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u72	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 12th point in the theme list: "The question is, if you're talking about Mien hating society with members of the Podemos-IU team working for Economism and the Chief Department of Environment, about the responsibility of the Eukjok in the destruction of the Mount Mábar. " Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u73	Yes, thank you. Well, it's a year since the accident happened in the stable of the stable, where two people lost their lives. Joaquín Beltranek and Albert Solomon. Besides, we met with one of the most serious environmental problems that have happened in Euskadin a long time ago. The question is: Besides blaming Verter Recycling, is the government going to do anything else than take responsibility for controlling the wastebaskets?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u75	President, chief of departments and congressmen, good morning to all. Well, first of all, as has been said before, two families, Alberto Solozin and Joaquín Beltran's families, our condolences and our commitment to search. A Mrs. Hatred, as you know, belongs to a departmental chief in charge of my care, to the Environmental Chief, to the autonomy section of the autonomy, to allow, including, of all that must be given in the midst of the trash cans. While Verter Recyling fell at that moment, as he fell, there was an arrangement of environmental conditions in the wasteyard that he managed to advance, and an integrated authorization, as you know, given him in 2007. The environmental body of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, following this integrated environmental authorization, has carried out eight inspection visits to the facility. On 25 January 2011, the inspection is carried out prior to the granting of the environmental authorisation, i.e. from 2007 to 2011 the first visit is carried out. Five subsequent inspections, in 2013, 2014, 2017 and twice in 2019, which meet all inspection requirements. Two subsequent visits, one in 2014 within the landfill project and one in 2016 in the waste control and management project. All of them under the Environmental Inspection and Control Plan provided for in each of the periods. The last, of course, in the period 2019-2026. All these inspection plans and programmes respond to the general procedure established in the European Union, called Integrated Risk Assessment Method. We therefore follow all these European procedures. All these visits have their corresponding records and, of course, we carry out all the inspections scheduled and required according to the authorization they have, but also an additional check is carried out according to the activity that is carried out. And, according to the sanctioning authority, a number of fines have been put in place in 2012 and 2020, according to an inspection carried out in 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mrs. Hatage, yours. [[Microphone Off spoke]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u77	Man, but beyond this data you are offering me, the question I have put to you makes sense because today there are still so many unanswered questions that have to do with government action. In particular, why did they not stop the activity when the cracks were reported at the landfill or when the department itself was already processing a sanctioning file? Or why wasn't rescue teams warned of the 16,000 tons of asbestos that existed at the landfill? Or how is it possible that a landfill designed to be filled in 35 years, turns out to be filled in just nine years? Why does the Basque Government also open one landfill after another, when in Europe the Waste Directive has been demanding that landfills be recycled and reused for decades and that landfills be the last option? Or, for example, in the fires that occurred on 7 February, did the Government adequately inform the population of the risks of dioxins and furans when they said that there was no alarm, when soon after a football match had to be cancelled, precisely because of danger, as a precaution? And it is that in this not to assume and hide, it also draws attention to the way in which the arrest of the three managers of Verter Recycling took place on July 20, 2020. The Department of Security said the arrests were by court order. But then, both the company and the judge of Durango who investigates the case, even the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country denied it. So it seems that there was no court order but it was a police order from the Department of Security, which later said that, well, there had been a misunderstanding. Of course, another question arises: why did the Basque Government not wait for the court order? There is, then, doubt or suspicion that Ertzaintza was used to divert attention from the responsibilities of the Government. I am also saying this, above all, because these last few weeks we are also seeing that the media focus in relation to irregular and privileged vaccines is eclipsing and diverting towards Ertzaintza actions in workers' riots and demands. So there's a lot of doubt. There are many doubts about the management and the decisions taken in connection with the Zaldibar catastrophe. In short, one year after the collapse of the landfill, there are, as I say, outstanding issues. And although there are many indications of mismanagement in the landfill control and in the decisions taken, it is not apparent that responsibilities will be assumed. We must not forget and must not forget that Parliament itself refused to set up a committee of inquiry, precisely to find out what happened and to be able to clear up all these political responsibilities. That is why I hope that this situation of opacity and non-research will be reversed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u79	Thank you. Gorrotxategi andrea, opacity not; lehendakari has said it, rigour and transparency. On 4 March 2020, an environmental liability claim file was launched for Verter Recycling. Following the reply received, the significant nature of the environmental damage done by this company – said last week – to groundwater, surface water and soil has been determined. Therefore, the company has been required to submit a damage repair project and we are waiting for that submission. External audits have also been required – as you are well aware, because they have been referred to the House – to Ricardo Energy & Environment, as it is an expert opinion on the integrated environmental authorization carried out. In the same report, it is concluded that the authorization has been or has the legal requirements, in accordance with all the provisions of the European Directive, and that, in addition, in relation to inspection and control, the Basque Government also complies with the provisions of the said European regulations. This is, therefore, what an external audit report says about environmental authorization and follow-up on inspection and control. However, this is not the only report that has been requested from different external entities, but, in addition, a causation report was requested from a mixed team, one part from the University of Barcelona and the other from the University of Cantabria, which has recently been received, and both documents, of course, are already in the hands of the Prosecutor's Office. Because our main goal is to clarify what happened and work together with the prosecution to clear up all kinds of responsibilities. And, if more information is needed – we believe that there are elements that need to be studied in greater depth – we will also do so. Don't have the slightest doubt about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "The Introduction, the parliamentary members of the Otero Gaboro team, made by Economics and the Chief of Ogas, was the project of the legal contributions of the legislature in the course of the World." Mr. Otero, your word is yours. Just a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u81	Yes, thank you, Chief. Good morning again, all of you. Mr. Below, I don't know if you've noticed, but the European funds are very important to the Basque Country. You must have noticed. I dare say, that this time we have not brought the subject of our own free will, but because we have forced us to do it. I dare say that European funds no longer require too much texting. In the next few years, the effect of the economic crisis that the pandemia has released will strike us completely. The want of money and the increase of expenses will be attended with consequences. And we believe that the production of debts and deficits already narrowed the funding of investments. At the same time, we need to make changes that are structured. There are profound transitions, such as the climatic ergetic, which will prove the capacity of modification in this country. As we all know, these funds fit in that context. And the activity on time, even if you don't want to understand, is a practice that transcends the majority's cirripedes because we're making decisions for the rest of the decade. And you can't make a popular assembly with all the contributions and suggestions that come from one side. There's the mistake, we've said it more than once. But, as we told you, this business of European funds for us is a strategic affair, and we will not give up or give up. On December 29, when you saw and examined the document you published, our intention was not to bring the subject to the full control-ground, but to carry all the groups to a format of participation. The important thing is, we asked for a show of yours to be executed in the pleno room, the committee scene, but you don't seem to like it and you've thrown it back. But since you're obliged to give an explanation in the control unit, you'll have to appear here. I issued a warning from my first interference, that in several governments this business of European funds might tend to manage each person as if he were his caramel bag. We didn't think so, but in the beginning, it would be the most selfish of all. You showed it very clearly when we proposed the origin of an strategic office, or in the monographic discussion we proposed in the middle of December. Intention to perform the shared reflection of the strategic: zero. The plans for talking about projects: zero. Contributions: zero. You made it very obvious in the political proposal that we made for the budget. We can't talk about the budgets in your own words, even though they're already recorded in articulate budget, even though the USCACT fund is already signed. You've always said from the beginning that there'd be chances of borrowing and keeping it calm. But this way of borrowing has not hitherto been opened: not anywhere, not at all. We're not going to give up anyway. Here's another contribution. On December 29th, "The time is completed until April 30" According to these words, we believe it is open to complete, modify, add, or remove projects, to complete the best list we can possibly get. In short, we want to make a critical reading about the introduction, because obviously there's a improvement in the Basque Spanish government from the project that was sent to the Spanish government in August to the "Next program." We confess. It must also be said that the improvement of this original proposition was not difficult, as it might be seen in the rating of PriceWeterhouseCoopers, which was the spirit of the "Next generation" and something that had not been very well understood. So far, the main review of the Basque Country has been concerned with the type of government, which seems to us to be a very obscure process between Euskakia and the Thu program. It is not only that political discussion has been denied, and that the proposals of opposition have not been taken notice of, but that there is no formal method of taking part in the institutional, social, economic, and political agents. As a result, the information about the process and the projects that have been made to the desktop has been passed only through a few of them. The councils complain, including most social, economic, and political agents (including the whole occasion). But still more so, I'd say, it wasn't going to be started even the interdepartative government club that M.M. had defined for the development of the document: a meeting of beginnings, and then accepted, but without time to appreciate the project, even if it had come to that end. We say again, it's a great harm to us to decide that kind of strategic investment as a town that's so important to us, that the model of rule in the Eucomfort, which has nothing or almost nothing from the state of the government and the neighbourhood. In fact, I'd like to take a little hold of the contents by giving a critical analysis of Euskakia theNext program. Euskadi closes the transformation of human permanent development in seven strategic plans: Plan Cincia, Tecnología e Innovación, RIS3, strategy inteligente, climate 2050; strategy 2030; Eurgética 2030; Economics, Agenda, press 2050; challenges between women and men... But because of the weight given to the neurotic transition or to the ecological transition, the climate and energy courts take special importance. But the climate Plan 2050, which was published five years ago, had certain definite ends, simple purposes, short ends. And these ends have already been completely superseded. Europe has already increased greatly by the object of its sheds, to the decline of 55% of the year 1990. And the plan that's been planned, and the plan that's been here on the basis, only requires a 25% reduction to that reference in 1990. It is obvious, for us, that the climate strategy is an extinct strategy, and that the climate challenge is a necessary necessity for the negligating from top to bottom. That's enough for us to say that the European Union has no connection with the romances that the Eukazai is based on the development of the South. The document, apart from that, has a sistemic perspective. The projects are organized in eight parts or parts, and in most cases none of these repairs have any formulation of the light of the strategic purpose, and consequently the consistency of the repairs is missing. Many projects are collected, which in many cases are common to each other inconex, which do not build an strategic logic, and consequently no light of modification is marked. We clearly see what the process has produced: the town councils, the departments, the mushrooms, the funk, and the press have put the projects on the table, and Ike's company has done a business of counseling to give them formal consistency. It is far from being a strategic proposition, which will transctemmatic transformation, which is intended by funds. In most of the arrangement, it is possible to find projects containing similar features and targets, which make each other bare. The absence of a suitable, sistemic view, and the want of the base of the strategic base, brings about this: The projects, instead of encouraging collaborative systems, are proposed to put themselves into competition. Some projects are vague, or the justification that is attached to them is involuntary, and consequently have no body. And besides, there are projects with zero dollars' budget equipment. Not even a planet's environmental panic is taking care of itself. One of the four axes on the plan of the state is a country panic. "Esquekadi Tukakia, most of the projects are piled up in the metropolisous parts of the capital, refusing de facto as purpose for the country panic. There is no instance of a particular pattern for the townships below 5,000 inhabitants, they are called to be played in the Spanish settlements, and afterwards mentioned the origin of an organ of co-ordination. The quality of public and private consent is nowhere specified. Certain companies are cited and considered to be of benefit to the funds, but nowhere is it determined how the fundamental principle of public competition will be respected. In the strategic projects, the proportion between public and private enterprises is not explained, and, in general, it is not clear what the role of the public sector is, how the public sector will take part in these strategic projects, both from financial view and from the operatic. The Basque paper is also insignificant. It's 0.02. And it's very significant that he's been a publicised and not a month back, isn't it? I'm not going to include the project, I don't have time to tell you that much. But I mean that the Basque Country is putting together several initiatives, proposals, commitments, and commitments on the table to make a consistent and effective road around the funds of Europe which offer an indispensable impulse to ecological, technology, and social transition. We have, sir, the exact proposals to improve this. We have also localized those who are supposed to be whales and who are compatible with our proposals. Now it's your turn. You'll have to explain to us how we can make our contribution.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u82	Thank you, Mr. Otero. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u83	Mr. President of the Parliament, chief of the Department, members of the legislature. Mr. Otero, you would have noticed, too, that even for the government, the European funds are very important, wouldn't you? Your interference reminds me of the negotiation process of the budget we've been sharing a few months ago, or the advertising process. And this I say, because some concepts of the tone and writing of this enterprise are the same, namely, of the proposition proposed to us on the 13th of January. I am going to try again to report on the state of play of European funds, namely the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Mechanism, and on the approach of the Euskadi Next programme, which is not, Mr Otero, a list of projects as you describe it, but a deep, methodological, strategic and interinstitutional work that has succeeded in shaping a shared and consensual vision of the future. Today at least he has acknowledged, and it is to be thanked, that there has been a progress with Euskadi Next in relation to the projects sent in August. A vision for the future with an approach consistent with our intelligent specialization lines and with the ten axes of the government program for this legislature. A programme that sets out a model of governance that is strengthened from the European Union, with the aim of building, contributing and advancing. It is true, and I will not deny that, because I have already verbalized it repeatedly, that the management by the Government of Spain is not being the one that we believe would be the most efficient for the optimal use of European resources and for carrying out a process of real transformation. This same week, in the session of control of the Congress of Deputies, a new stalemate has been experienced regarding the credibility of the governance proposed by the Government of Spain. The previous one, we witnessed an in extremis approval of the decree law regulating the execution of the funds. An approval that I believe should be understood as an opportunity to change the course followed to date and to situate the strategy and planning of recovery, transformation and resilience within the framework of the State of self-government. Furthermore, during the annual meetings between the European Commission and the Government of Spain held on 27 and 28 January, Europe stressed the need to ensure the essential complementarity of the MRR funds with the ERDF funds. However, the State insists on differentiating the two instruments by highlighting their differences in management and omitting their finalist convergence. Thus, the strategy has been replaced by management and processes have replaced purposes. The Basque Government focuses on defending the decision-making capacity on the use of funds that have been regionalized to the autonomous communities. We play too much. To give him several examples that we consider worrying: of the 24,198 million MRR advanced in 2021, only 204, 0.8 %, are allocated to the university; to the industry, whose weight in Euskadi's GDP is 24 %, 233 million, and all this controlled from Madrid. Easier, the industry has 0.5 % of the MRR in 2021. For its part, trade and tourism, which are two sectors less intensive in investment than industry and with a lesser role in energy-ecological transformation and digitisation in Euskadi, will receive EUR 1,289.2 million, i.e. 75.5% of the budget of the ministry concerned. All this is clearly at the level of the State. Mr. Otero, let's put the light where we're going to put it, we're still in time. The planning we make from the Euskal Autonomy is a real model of a multi-levelly integration, which considers the diversity and specificity of each of the autonomy teams, and of course of Euskal Autonomy, which is the most troubling of us. A standard of government, which serves for all the funds of Europe. I would like to think that we are in time to work together and bring these approaches back to everyone. From the Basque Government we are working on this with intensity and loyalty. The "Basque Vision for a Recovery Plan in the European Union", defined in May 2020 and sent by Lehendakari Urkullu to the President of the European Commission and the President of the Spanish Government, pointed out how the launch of the Recovery Plan required an ambitious bet, while advocating for its alignment with the Multiannual Financial Framework 21-27 and also with cohesion policy funds, in particular with the aim of achieving a high degree of coordination and coherence between the two instruments as they share the objectives of territorial, economic and social cohesion of the European Union. The gravity of the moment required an ambitious response from the European Union in facing the most important challenge since its founding. This response came two months later through the Next Generation EU initiative. A new Marshall Plan was said to rescue Europe from an unprecedented economic crisis in times of peace. It is in our hands that on this occasion we do not again produce a Welcome, Mr Marshall, which is what will happen if we do not take advantage of this historic opportunity, not only to recover our economy but, above all, to transform it and make it more resilient. There's our real challenge and complexity. As you can see, Mr Otero, Euskadi Next goes far beyond just being a list of projects. Euskadi Next has been developed in coordination with the outlaws and municipalities of the three Basque capitals and with the contributions of economic and social actors. The 188 investments envisaged aim to raise European MRR funds worth 5.7 billion, which, together with the budgets owning the Basque administrations and private investment, would trigger a total of 13.135 million euros in Euskadi over the next five years. A huge investment that will exceed 3% of the annual cumulative GDP over the period. A great challenge is to look where you look. The great challenge of this programme is to continue building a green, digital and inclusive Euskadi, which looks at the gender perspective in a cross-cutting way. It is about supporting projects that involve structural change and have a lasting impact on economic and social resilience, sustainability, long-term competitiveness and employment. Euskadi Next's energy-ecological transition-oriented measures reach 63% of the MRR – very important, as you pointed out, Mr Otero – by exceeding the 37% mark Europe. And digital transition targets reach 21%, which is also higher than what the European Union has set. Our companies, our working people, our SMEs and our municipalities will be able to access resources from the MRR in different ways, with a clear approach to capillary. He said that his question reminds me of his proposal on this issue in the budget negotiation. I told you then and I repeat, Mr Otero, they do not intend to assume a role that does not belong to them, we will not confuse the plans. As you know, the budget project incorporates a management model of sufficient transparency, guarantee and information flexibility so that the use and maximization of funds has rigorous parliamentary monitoring and control, with the Basque public administrations fully managing their planning, as well as relational and economic management with the State. The Government exercises governmental functions at all levels: in management, representation and institutional dialogue in the relevant forums. The Government marks the road map in public policies because it is supported by the majority of Basque society. Collective intelligence, Mr Otero, was activated on 12 July 2020. The Government is accountable to this House – as it cannot be otherwise – and parliamentary groups can provide and control, of course, but not condition, change or eliminate the action of the Government. And in conclusion, I have to say that this House and its group in particular, as the maximum promoter of the initiative, have already had the opportunity to participate in the process you are asking for today. And the truth is that the Government has only followed the resolutions adopted at that plenary session on 16 December and carried out a work that is incumbent on the executive, which is, of course, the legitimized one. Then, too, the contributions you can make from your parliamentary group, of course, will be welcome. But the role of the Government rests with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u84	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u85	Below you, sir, I don't know what the reason is, but, klaro, we've come here with a question, there's a question in interpelations, and the question was, what's the mechanism you'll use in your words to contribute to a living document. You spent ten minutes explaining, you didn't say. You didn't say. Esaten duzu: "we are in time to join forces," but you don't tell us how. It doesn't tell us how. There is no way, from the beginning of the process to today and, even today, you still do not enable any mechanism. We've been telling you, we've made a critical reading, some things seem acceptable to us, sometimes we don't agree, and I'm confirming it. In some cases, it's a list of projects, which is clearly seen, we have a lot of time here, but in the circle of intelligent motion or in the processing of the data, or in the language of the hydrogeean strategy. Different projects, which, in some cases, may solve the problems of certain specific companies, but not of a fixed and united strategy. So we want to discuss that, but you have to put a frame on us. And you said there's a majority here. We're against that thesis. We have said from the very beginning that this is far beyond the work of a cymviral government or majority. And we won't deny the government's responsibility to send him a list of projects or a whole program. What we're saying is that if you're all looking for the chance of making this project, if you make use of it, then making a defense together would be much easier; but if you shut the door every day and every proposal, many of us make it difficult for you to make a lot of difficulty with your project, because it's only yours at the end of it, isn't it? So we have time, you say we're on time, but we have to do that. That's why you have to put up a mechanism. And you say we shouldn't mix the plans, but be careful with that. Be careful with that, I've told you it's yours, but even if it's a tactic here, I think it would be better to start moving another strategy, wouldn't it? I'm talking about two major issues. You say, and you're right, Euskakia, the next program wants to take a 5.700 million from the European funds or that idea. Yes, but that supposes, according to the distribution of Madrid made, almost 20% of the money he will distribute in the community, doesn't it? And, Claro, that's a very high percentage, we've seen that what's ripe for us hasn't reached 5%. In defense of that 20%, it's clear we're all gonna have to push. So it would be best if all the tactics were pushed. And therefore it would be much more interesting to have an opportunity of receiving our contributions, and to have a clear idea of what project we prefer to negotiate downwards. We need to feel like the Basque Next project, and at the moment we don't feel that you don't give us a chance. But I'll tell you one more thing about the government model. Governments have a paper, and the government paper is also accepted by the kings of Madrid. But it is very clear that the Government of Madrid has felt the need of some protection, and that, in consequence of this protection, they have negotiated a number of accounts connected with the royal decree and those which did not correspond to the royal decree. And therefore, as the Basque Country is a critical reading of Madrid, we have entered a negotiation of Gibraltar, and have obtained a number of commitments, and not for us, we have thought of them all. And we have managed to make a political negotiation apart from the royal decree and to increase the amount of funds that will arrive at the townships. And this is a political achievement, which is much better done here if we do it with an agreement. And this agreement is far more successful if we share this strategic direction and the project itself, and in a negotiation which is to come this negotiation will come if we defend the hucharta Governments on the other side and the political groups on the other side of the strategic project which we've actually agreed on. But that's why you have to open up the roads, Mr. Subzu, which you've never done before.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u86	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u87	Otero jauna, you yourself, your group, made a number of proposals in the plenary of Parliament that were debated and voted on, didn't you? And I think that is the way for a parliamentary group to make proposals. I believe that the proposals can be made in Parliament and, from there, the Government has to take up and use those positive proposals to move forward. His parliamentary group says that also in Madrid he supported the royal decree law in order to try to get, say, more resources in Euskadi. It seems perfect to me, I think that's the way; that's what the Basque Nationalist Party has been doing for a long time and we believe that, as long as those resources are spent in Euskadi for the improvement of citizens' lives, that's a good thing. So I think it's very good that you're going that way. But when you mention that you are putting on the table various initiatives on this issue, I do not know if you are referring to the 26-page document delivered to the lehendakari, in which only 29 lines were those that referred to Europe and there was no concrete project – there was neither a calendar nor were quantified. Nor do I know whether you are referring to the six-page comprehensive proposal that you presented to us a month ago, in which you wanted a joint defence in Madrid and a joint response in Brussels. Or I don't know if you were referring to what you publicly presented on Sunday, December 20, a document the government never received. Still, we analyzed it – as it obviously cannot be in any other way – and we saw how you raise three areas, which are those marked by Europe, and 28 conceptual lines. Well, of the 28 ideas you put forward only three are not reflected in the Euskadi Next programme. These three are areas that the Government is working on and for which a regular budget is allocated: the issue of digitization, the impetus to euskera and the attention to business. Of those 28 ideas none is quantified, none is calendared – as I told you – and none counts with the impact measured. In short, allow me to resort to the usual jargon of this process by telling you that this seems to be an unsound manifestation of interest. I want to convey, however, a message to the citizenry and to this House. And I would also ask you, Mr Otero, not to try to confuse or generate unnecessary tensions which, in some cases, I know are creating in some municipalities. I believe that we must give calm and clear expectations to the citizenry. Euskadi has its own strategic plan to respond successfully to the challenge that awaits us in the coming years and that we face with illusion, conviction and firmness. We will not count on 20% of the state's resources. I don't know if the numbers are done right. If we're claiming 5,700 and it's going to be around 80,000, I think that's about 7% more than 20%. I would tell you, sincerely, that in the coming months we play a lot. We must be surgical to bring to good use the vision of the future that is Euskadi Next. We can't afford to stumble. So, Mr Otero, we support and contribute, of course, but we do not fret or hinder the work of the Government. In this way, which is positive to Eukadi, Mr. Otero, everyone ought to help himself from his own responsibility, without disturbing this important and strategic process. Euskadi cannot lose a minute, because what is at stake is the possibility that the MRR is a real vector of recovery, transformation and resilience for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u88	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the KRRRR of the Correse Department of the Board of Education, "in taking the unusual measures to prevent the study in its presence." Mr. Arrese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u89	Yes, good morning. We knew this year's learning would be complicated. And I must confess that we are doing much better than we thought to carry this learning, and that we have somehow overcome our fears in the summer. But it is also true that if the educational community has overcome this challenge, it has exceeded the first trimester, it has undoubtedly been thanks to the work of the whole education sector and thanks to the enormous effort that they are making professionals, families and, above all, the student. And I say this because we believe that, as far as personal and economic means are concerned, the Department of Education is short, it is not coming. And the schools are barely holding the pull, we have to say it, but we don't know how much more they're going to hold, because, in the midst of a pandemic, we still have, in our opinion, few economic resources in the classroom. And that leads us, among other things, to have 233 classrooms closed today, but the economic departures for the centers have not gone up. The last example of how we think we don't have to do things we have lived here, in Gasteiz, with the Judimendi center. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Biltz, do you think that the Board of Education has to take a new measure in the schools in order to maintain every degree of security so that learning can end up in its presence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u90	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u91	Thank you, Mrs. President of the legislature. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, good morning. Mr. Arrese, the Board of Education, co-ordinated with the Medical Department, is constantly reviewing the proportions and protocols that are applied to our schools. At each moment we adapt as best we can to the epidemic situation, and thus we retain a firm wager for previous education. We are taking care of the measures we have, and we are considering and considering new measures, always following the recommendations of the scholars, and carefuling the agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u92	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mr. Arrese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u93	You're looking into it, Chief Biltz, but time is up and the year is up. There are more and more, sadly, the classes we have closed, and consequently the number of students who must continue at home in good school. And for the time being, we meet with the opposite measures which you proposed at the beginning of learning, which we think are not sufficient. I'll just give you a few examples. Where are the 24,000 computers that you announced? Now that the incidence of the covid has hit and even entered the classrooms, now that the student has to follow, more than at the beginning of the course, the online classes, where are the 24,000 computers you announced? Can you assure us that all the students who need it have computers and wifi, nowadays, being confined? We don't think so, and we know that from the first hand. As for the Udalaguntza game, despite being in the middle of a pandemic, the game remains the same as in previous years. And we find that the municipalities have to decide whether to fix the boiler of a center, if they fix the windows of a center, if they fix the humidity of a center or if they put a tent, because it was also said that they would put tents in the centers. But it happens that, although schools need these tents, even though schools make petitions to the municipalities to install these tents, there are municipalities, such as Donostia or Bilbo, which say no, that these tents do not touch now. You're predicting that you'll even give the council money to clean up school. But you, who've been to the town management, you know that those accounts you've told you aren't enough. And the councils have been handing them for a year, all that doesn't come from their pockets to the Board of Education. And in the end, I should like to say, in our education, also, that we should take extraordinary measures, and that the councils ought to give more money. To invest more in character must be invested in the medical equipment, and to invest in subordinates. And it seems to us that this time we're in February, and this time we're closed by the aula, the Board of Education hasn't yet given an answer of size.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u94	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u95	Yeah. Mr. Arrese, the bet we play in advance is clear and transparent. Every expert admits the benefits of this in the emotional development of our students. So we are constantly co-ordinated with the health department, and we have a weekly survey and revision experience to take measures according to the development of the situation. At the same time, we're at Labi's Advision Committee. In this case the measures are agreed to face the state caused by the coronabirus, following the recommendations of the technical committee of experts. In accordance with these principles, we're taking measures every day. As you know, we've strengthened the master's plan. We've just got 164 new professors. We've even increased the service service service and the staff's plantilage. 1.157 monitors and the new office worker. We've even reinforced the supply of compact network and municipal resources. Among these, Mr. Arrese, alone in this alone, 107 million euros, almost threefold of the budget of this legislature. Thanks to all our efforts, we're getting schools to be safe spaces. All this has been possible through the commitment and complication of the whole school community: family, teachers, board departments and students. We all managed to make rooms safe, but we've only made half the road yet. We must continue to reform and fill our measures, as we have hitherto done; we must renew and fill them. This week I had the opportunity to share this purpose with the directors of the schools: We've been together with 527 directors. And I'm not going to tell you what I did there, because it was a meeting between us, but I think it was very useful for them and us. I also thanked them for the work they're doing. I asked them to keep an eye on me, as I said, because we've only done half the way. At this moment, about 14% of all the rooms, it's confirmed. That means at the same time that the rooms are still open to 98,56. At this moment, it's about 144 percent of the rooms closed, and we have to keep on fighting for our previous education all the time. How? Doing the protocols we're starting with strictness, examining the suggestions of experts, adapting and taking new measures. keeping all of them' agreement and co-operation. We have to start on our way so far that we can continue to carry on the goal, that is, to guarantee a previous education throughout the course of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u96	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The 15th point in the theme list: "Interface, the popular group of Laura Garrido Knörkurs, members of the Ciudadanians made to the chief physician of the Medical Department on account of irregular insertions." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u97	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I would have liked the lehendakari to be present at this inquiry. I imagine you will be following it from one of your offices, especially because it is the biggest crisis facing this government presided over by the Lehendakari Urkullu, in these four months of government. And above all because, for a matter as he himself said "of honesty, rigour and transparency", in the end it will be up to him to attach it to himself as lehendakari and most responsible for this government. Counselor, are you going to keep telling the truth, the whole truth about this matter? It is likely that the gum to know the truth will continue to stretch, because there are many people interested in really knowing everything that has happened in relation to the irregular vaccinations and the concrete cardboard of the Department of Health, with you at the head, and the Osakidetza Directorate. Are you aware that parapeting in a mere decoordination is something that is not going to be possible in time, and that this is going to compromise an entire government, and the lehendakari himself, who has placed his trust in you to lead, by the way, a department that has been questioned for a long time by the actions of his predecessors in office? Today, the Lehendakari has pointed out that the Counsellor has told the whole truth and that she has the full support of the Government. In addition to irregular vaccinations, which you know has been lacking and is still lacking in the truth at parliamentary level, everything that surrounds vaccinations, counselor, is a real disaster: vaccination criteria that are not very clear, which lead you to change your protocol, the leaflet protocol and half. Planning is an absolute chaos: the phase of health care is beginning without the phase of the socio-health space being completed. Because you know very well that the phase of the socio-health space does not include only the residential sphere, but day centers, disability... The rest of the toilets are started without finishing the first line and, at the same time, it is announced that the area of private health is started. To this must be joined all the territorial imbalances that we are experiencing, which, by the way, are very striking. Doses without control, even come out in a large and sufficient amount – which, in your opinion, goes unnoticed – as to vaccinate an entire staff, decisions that seem to be made from arbitrariness, in an uncoordinated manner and without any kind of control and rigour. In short, Madam Counsellor, aside from the truth about your role in irregular vaccinations, what aspects do you know of this matter? It is obvious that you have missed the truth in everything related to the vaccination of Santa Marina staff or staff, as you prefer to call it. You are absolutely unable to follow the lead of a department, the Department of Health, due to its lack of control, the lack of transparency and the opacity of the entire vaccination process. The management of vaccinations, counselor, is a real disaster and does not have a pass. And you, as Health Advisor, are the most responsible for this disaster. Let us see if with this inquiry we can clarify the doubts that persist in relation to irregular vaccinations, and whether you, today at last, have the right to answer or remain unanswered, as is your usual custom. Vaccinations in Basurto occur on day 3, in the middle of the bridge of Nochevieja, clandestinely, at night, with spare doses of vaccinations intended initially for the residences of Bizkaia. We are going to contextualize this moment well, because at that time the process of vaccination of the health care workers, the front line health workers who, as you know, announce it on the 13th afternoon – precisely after a committee in this Parliament in which you did not tell the truth and did not respond specifically to this question – and as you know very well starts on 19 January. We want to know if, as you said, only four people were vaccinated. Can you continue to claim that only four people were vaccinated? Were vaccinations only on day 3 or in the following days there were more vaccinations? Who organizes the vaccination and administers the doses at a time when the infrastructure for administering the vaccinations was not yet in place, since vaccinations had not begun in the health centres? Are you aware of the non-registration of vaccinations and that not recording a medical act in a patient's medical history is a fact of an enormous gravity that rubs the criminal or that could spray the criminal? Speaking of allegedly criminal proceedings, the Bizkaia Prosecutor's Office is going to initiate pre-trial proceedings on this issue. I hope that the cooperation of your department and Osakidetza will be absolute in this matter. You kept in committee, in the parliamentary seat, that Mrs Collazos, a labi technician and head of prevention of the Santa Marina hospital, was not vaccinated at that time but was vaccinated at a later time, at the time that was his. Can you tell us exactly what day he got vaccinated? And why is vaccination and what criteria were followed for this vaccination and the date of registration of this vaccination? Can you also tell us the exact day you find out about the irregular vaccinations of Basurto and how? Because if you hear from the press 15 days later, of course, it is clear that you were not aware of the vaccination processes and less of the irregular processes that had to have jumped the alarms in your department and in Osakidetza itself. Santa Marina Hospital. There was no hidden or clandestine vaccination here, it was done on the 19th, when vaccination had already begun in health centres and in front-line professionals. The opposite was done and it was done because the whole staff or staff, counselor, vaccination process was authorized. And they refer to it, because it was authorized to vaccinate all the staff or staff, the 100 vials needed to administer the doses to the 550 people – as you said in the commission – who were finally vaccinated. Everything was authorized by you and the director of Osakidetza, as has been accredited in the WhatsApp that we have had occasion to know. The hospital of Santa Marina is a special hospital, which rubs the socio-health character, with many covid patients, so it can be said that it almost resembles a residential center. It could have been included, and all citizens would have understood, in the vaccination process. Wouldn't have been so strange, counselor. There is no doubt that the vaccination of the entire staff of the staff that includes what includes – and you know very well – was done with your consent and with your permission. For this reason, your director is vaccinated and recorded in a video, because he had the corresponding authorization. How is it explained that the director of a hospital, with this gentleman's trajectory, would record a video and publish it on the networks if he did not have the proper authorization and consent? It just doesn't fit in any head, counselor. And vaccination, as I told you, is possible because it's authorized. For this purpose, the 100 necessary vials are forwarded. You control the shipment of vials, counselor. How are you not going to control the shipment of vials when it is the most precious good at this time, scarcely and enormously demanded? It's gold, counselor, how are you not going to control the exact number of vials that go out to OSI? If that were not the case, it would be a very serious mistake, Madam Counsellor, not a "serious decoordination", as you have told us. So you shouldn't go to the head of the Department of Health. No one is believed to know anything about you and that this decision corresponds exclusively to the Public Health Directorate, which depends on your department, depends on you, and that at that time, moreover, you were without a vice-counsel because you had resigned. The Department of Public Health was directly dependent on you at the time. Of course it authorizes the vaccination of Santa Marina, so a Spanish Television team, a television team to record a vaccination that had a peculiarity regarding other vaccinations that were being made in other hospitals. And the peculiarity was that all the staff were being vaccinated, all the staff were being vaccinated massively. Moreover, by the way, it was very good for him to add to the vaccination figures that were very questioned at the time. And these figures could increase the vaccination figures, which were very low at the time. Another question, Counselor, do you know of any more irregular vaccinations? In short, we believe that you are unable to manage the pandemic crisis and a department, such as the Department of Health, because of your inability and lack of truth. The credibility of Osakidetza, our Osakidetza, which is of all, not only of the PNV, is damaged by the actions of successive health officials of the Urkullu government and its last one. And for a matter of honesty, transparency and rigour, as the lehendakari said, you have to go. Citizens and professionals deserve an honest, transparent and truth-telling government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u98	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. I'm sure it's yours, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u99	Mr. President of the Parliament, chiefs, members of the legislature, good days. I believe, Mrs Garrido, that we are doomed not to understand each other, because I explain, I answer all or almost all those questions you ask me about and you insist on ignoring those explanations or answers. Starting with the justification of the inquiry, she said that the explanations were insufficient, since they had not answered many of the questions that had been asked. I understand that before my appearance you had many questions to ask, but I hoped that, as the appearance went on, I could go and tick them. But I see it wasn't like that. In the second round I think I answered all or almost all, I posed them again. I answered again and I'm willing to do it a third time, at least, those I've been pointing at and that I've been pointing at, which I think are the most important. Question: A member of the Technical Committee of the Labi was irregularly and clandestinely vaccinated. I already said in my first exhibition who had been vaccinated and that person did not appear. The head of the Internal Medicine Service, the microbiologist responsible for infection control, the head of the Infectious Diseases Service and the Director General were vaccinated. His question: "We would like to know who organized this vaccination in secret." I already told her that the vaccination of that day was organized by a doctor from the Basic Basurto Prevention Unit – given that the person in charge was enjoying rest days – and the Assistant Director of Nursing at OSI Bilbao-Basurto who had been trained in the administration of the vaccine. Question: "We would like to know who administered the doses of this vaccine." I also told you, the Assistant Director of Nursing at OSI Bilbao-Basurto who had been trained in the administration of the vaccine. Question: "Would it not have been strange, counselor, that a center of these characteristics – in this case, Santa Marina, and today has repeated it – would have been included even among the residential centers that were vaccinated in the first phase?". We have hospitals, Osakidetza has no residential centers. Question: "Dosage allocation procedure at each duty station". Simple, following established instructions, criteria and priorities. OSI and non-OSI agencies request appropriate information. And from the technical services of the Department and Osakidetza they are distributed as equitably as possible. Something that is really difficult given the disparity in the structures of our organization. Question: "Are you also aware of the distribution of these doses?". Not to that end of detail. Does that week know how many vials were distributed? 2,700, representing more than 13,000 vaccines, more than 13,000 vaccines. Question: "How was that high number of vials sent to Santa Marina Hospital?". Because they were asked from Santa Marina. I said it. And I also told him that whoever made the distribution, did not realize that the amount requested did not correspond to the instructions provided. Question: "Did you personally authorize such a shipment? Were you aware of this? Mr. Sabas maintains that he had conversations with you." You know that's not true. Question: "Can you please reveal to us the contents of that second conversation?". Yeah, I already did, it wasn't a conversation, it was messages from WhatsApp, I read them. Question: "Did you consider Mr. Sabas' behaviour irregular when vaccinated?". That was the object of the appearance that I myself announced, pointing out irregular behaviour and explaining the measures taken. Question: "Do you think that a managing director of a hospital gets vaccinated by announcing it to a bowl and dish, recording it, if you consider that you are doing something sneaky and without proper authorization?". That's not for me to say. What I'm wondering is why some very clear instructions were ignored. The management of a means of communication interested in vaccination and the fact that I was invited, has nothing to do with how they planned and organized vaccination. It has nothing to do with it. Santa Marina was on the vaccination list and we hoped that it would be done in accordance with the protocol established for that purpose. Question: "In relation to residency criteria, are managers vaccinated?". Yes, because the criterion is different. And I remember again, Santa Marina is a hospital, not a residence. I am not going to insist more on the questions that are also being reiterated in today's inquiry. As you can see, I believe that the bulk of your questions were already answered before it was put, in my first speech, in the committee on the 27th, in the reply and in the reply. What I see is that you are much more concerned about the fact that Santa Marina received many more doses than it did, and not so much about the fact that the managing director was vaccinated. I remind you, because I have said it many times, that the demand of responsibilities to the managing directors of the hospitals of Basurto and Santa Marina occurred because they, not being front-line care people and having people who are waiting for their turn, were vaccinated. The request for more vials than Santa Marina was a breach of the instructions. Sending everything you asked for, a coordination error. Neither of these reasons is the cause of the demands of responsibilities on the two managing directors. As I said on the 27th of the month's board, and as head of the Medical Department, we take upon ourselves the penalty of coordination. We've improved the internal circuits so that the mistake can be corrected and that it doesn't happen again. So we've made a mistake on us, and we've taken measures. However, I won't be responsible for using the bad vaccine by two members of the Osae. No. As you know, the lack of exemplaryness had a clear effect: these two persons were excluded from Osa, on the following day, by a certain action, and the next day. As I said in the committee on the 27th, and I repeat this again, because you insist on asking me, as Health Department, including Osakidetza, we assume the coordination error. It is a mistake that we have assumed and that we have corrected by improving the internal circuits. Then we took the mistake and took action. The lack of exemplaryness of two senior officials in Osakidetza has had other consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u101	Counselor, it's not about you and me getting along. It is a matter of knowing the truth and, in addition, of being in Parliament. And you're bound to tell the truth. When is the labi technique vaccinated? Please, can you tell us the date and what criteria were followed for your vaccination? You are claiming to be vaccinated, because your vaccination is justified. I asked you, I asked you the other day in committee, another Member of Parliament who is present right now at this parliamentary session asked you to tell us exactly the date on which it is vaccinated. I cast doubt on this issue. When is the labi technician being vaccinated, who is responsible for the Basurto prevention area, and what criteria were followed for vaccination? Clear the doubt at once. If you have nothing to hide and you want to tell the truth, tell it. Better place than this rostrum in the Basque Parliament where we are represented all Basque citizens... Say it, say it. When is the labi technician vaccinated and what criteria were followed for vaccination? Let's see if that vaccination was justified, but say it here. You know perfectly well that Santa Marina is a center, that it is not a residence, we know that it is not a residence, it is only necessary to see it from the outside. I think that's obvious, counselor. It doesn't entangle us in things that aren't substantial. But it is similar to a socio-health centre because of the number of covid patients it has, also because of the number of staff who care for these patients, because of the age of the patients. Therefore, if the vaccination of the Santa Marina Hospital had been carried out, even if it was not a residential centre – which we already know, Madam Counsellor, which we already know – it would not have been unbridled. The problem is that you authorized that vaccination. The problem is that you authorized that vaccination, and that is why that number of vials is sent: enough to vaccinate all staff and staff. And that is perfectly accredited in the WhatsApp that you exchange with the managing director of the hospital and the director general of Osakidetza. You are informed that the entire staff is being vaccinated, they are being informed of the growing number and how the number of people who are being vaccinated is growing. And when the Director General tells him that if the entire staff has been vaccinated, he says yes and breaks down the categories and details the staff. She specifically asks if the team is also vaccinated and when he says yes, he says until tomorrow. That is, if it had caused so much blush, and that decision to vaccinate managers would have been so shocking and irregular, these WhatsApps would have had some record of that irregularity, because I imagine that the director general of Osakidetza would have been surprised, she would not have told you until tomorrow. And then, you, when you clearly say "all the staff" – they tell you several times – you don't question it and, if you had any doubts, you could have clarified which is all the staff. You do not raise any doubts because you already know what the totality of the staff is. But it's just that the exact vials are also sent out, counselor. How can it be possible that at that time and at all times when we know what a vial is – a vial is an absolutely scarce good, it is gold, it is the most precious at this time – you do not know the vials that are sent to the OSI and to the different health organizations or to the different hospitals, in this case Santa Marina? How is that out of control possible, Counselor? It's just that, if that's the case, it's not that I'm missing the truth or not, that we're going to, that's the most serious thing and that we have to try to clarify for a question, as I say, of honesty and rigour and transparency, as the lehendakari says... Because if not, in the end, you will be committing this government and the lehendakari himself, who will have to take letters on the matter. But if you do not control the shipment of vials and have an absolute lack of control of the vaccination process, you are not qualified to follow the lead of the Department of Health. We're talking about very serious issues, we're talking about the health of all of us, we're talking about ending this pandemic, we're talking about people who are in situations of special vulnerability and in very serious situations while the vials are spreading out of control, uncoordinatedly, and the counselor doesn't know, doesn't she? No, counselor, you know perfectly well where the vials go. Of course, I'm worried about a lot of things. I am concerned that you were able to have the managing director of a hospital dismissed for an irregular performance that you were able to authorize. Of course I'm worried, because if you've authorized that massive vaccination and you've had the managing director of the hospital resign, you have to go with him. You have to go, counselor. It's just that this can't hold him in time. If you have had a person who has been misbehaved, and you have tolerated it, you cannot follow another minute to the head of the Department of Health.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u102	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u103	For the umpteenth time, the head of Basurto Basic Prevention Unit, Basurto, was vaccinated on the 15th day, which was when she started vaccination for professionals. And depending on what? Depending on your care task. Look, the only thing that can be concluded from the communications between the counselor and the director general of Osakidetza, with the former managing director of Santa Marina, is that it was not known that the vaccination was being massive. Do you defend the position of the director of Santa Marina? That he was vaccinated? It seems, because there is no other way to interpret the two questions that ask me: whether the Directorate has been vaccinated and whether the vaccines – they speak of the quantity – had Santa Marina asked them or simply been assigned to them. And the issue, the answers are so serious that these things are not solved by WhatsApp, they are solved face-to-face. And that's what the director general of Osakidetza did the next day, moving to Basurto and moving to Santa Marina to talk to the managing directors of each of the centers. You already know that the management of a hospital is considered to be a managerial position subject to the regime of article 27 of Law 8, of 1997, of 26 June, of the Health Organization of Euskadi, as well as to the provisions of Law 1, of 2014, of 26 June, Regulator of the Code of Conduct and Conflicts of Interest of Public Charges. The appointment and termination of the person in the management position of the management management will be carried out by the Directorate General of the public body Osakidetza-Vasco de Saúde. The appointment shall require prior public notice to certify the necessary requirements for university degrees, skills and professional experience for the performance of the post. Cessation, for its part, will be discretionary, but the decision which adopts it will be reasoned. It is up to management, among many other functions, to approve, in accordance with the criteria established by the Board of Directors of Osakidetza, the rules and criteria of an organizational nature applicable to the various services that make up the OSI and, in this case, the hospitals. As for us, the heads of the Department of Health and Osakidetza, the interests and responsibilities of each managing director do not begin or end in the organization that leads, for us and we are part of our management team in Osakidetza and must see and watch beyond their own organization. They cannot ignore that, asking for doses for their entire hospital, when they carry out vaccination in a single day, not in batches, and by complying with written protocols, they are delaying the vaccination of other people in other centers that are also attending front line patients covid. There is no reason for anyone to believe that if we had known we would have consented, there is no reason. As I have said, if we have arrived at this point, it is not because of the number of vaccines that we have lost confidence in some of the high masters of Osa. Because they should be more exemplary than that. But if we have come to this point, it is not because of the number of vaccines, Mrs Garrido, that we have lost confidence in senior officials in Osakidetza who should have had more exemplary behaviour, in line with the current shortage of vaccines to care for all vulnerable people or people exposed to infection in the health services themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The 16th point in the subject list. "Interadectation by Amania Martín the Greyseleña Group of Misto to the head of the Medical Department, about the protocols that are to be introduced against Eukadin COVID-19." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. Today is your day, Madam Health Advisor. First of all, I would ask you to hand over to the lehendakari what we in Vox call the "Pensivalnia Report." It is your response to a request from my group to know where most of the COVID-19 infections are registered in the Basque Country. They are two pages with many drawings and graphics very easy to read. A report prepared by the University of Pennsylvania, not by its trackers, not by Osakidetza. "Pensilvania Report", the Basque Government's guide to deciding which activities to limit and which to close. And if you don't have it, I'll give it to you, no problem, I'll keep it here. Today would be a good day if we all got out of here knowing more about your plan to achieve group immunity in the Basque Country. In that case, this would be a fruitful exercise of full control and not just an exchange of blows between the opposition and the Government. But after what I've heard, I'm suspicious and convinced that today is not going to be that big day. Last week I was commenting on this whole vaccination protocol thing with a journalist friend. She expressed her surprise at the total absence of self-criticism in her management. "With what we know," he told me. And we both conclude that it is even likely that there is no such protocol. Just a couple of leaflets with vague indications interpretable as the most confusing legal text. And that's the first question I have: Does your protocol really exist? We have heard him repeatedly talk about him, but he jumped into the light when we learned that at Basurto Hospital the managing director had jumped him to get vaccinated from the first, through the back door, in hiding. At the same time, we knew what happened at Santa Marina Hospital. Another situation, a real problem for you. But for the director general of Osakidetza as well as for the lehendakari herself. There the entire staff had been vaccinated, something never contemplated in that protocol of which we still do not know the details, without seeing it printed in our hands. I think if we are explained that it is the hospital with the most cases of COVID-19 and the risk that all the professionals who work there run, few of us would be opposed to actually getting vaccinated. Instead, we learned that the consecrated protocol barely occupied two folios and, apparently, also interpretable. Moreover, to solve the doubts, the hospital manager, José Luis Sabas, and you used an official channel as reliable as WhatsApp: "We have 100 vials and we are going to vaccinate all. Can we call the media?". "Ah, well, I'll hand you over to the communication people." And then he's trying to convince us that what we've read isn't really what we've read. By the way, one question that I have already asked you and that I am not quite clear, because you did not answer it, is whether the second dose of the vaccine has also been reserved for these people. What criteria are they going to follow? Because some argue that if the first dose has been inoculated irregularly, it does not lead to the second dose. But there are also those who prioritize the healthiest criterion, to consider that, when the process began, it is best to conclude it properly. I do not know what your protocol says about this issue. It does seem to allude – like the one developed by the Ministry of Health – to resident persons, residential workers, front-line professionals, large dependents, later elderly, 70, 80 years old. And nothing else. As for the rest of the groups and people who should certainly already be included in these protocols, very developed and with very precise and public lists, we continue to expect to know when the turn will come to many of them. I am convinced that any serious administration has advanced its protocols, beyond people over 70 years of age. I can't imagine the German authorities without having the slightest idea who will come after who, who will go before who. But everything here is incognito. We imagine that, after large dependents and over 70 years of age, they will come, in what order, chronic patients with serious diseases, chronic patients in general, essential workers. That is, once you have clarified what they are and what they are not, since at the beginning of the pandemic, for example, hairdressers were essential services and now it seems not. Also state security forces, firefighters, local police, airport personnel and supermarket workers, bakers, merchants, bus drivers, transporters... I believe that all those people, without performing essential tasks – although these tasks are always essential to themselves – also have the right to immunize themselves against that virus that has changed our lives. An endless list which you will have to order, if you have not already done so, and which, moreover, you will have to advertise. At some point they will have to face this moment in which they will generate deep discontent among those in the last posts on the list or in the middle. What are you waiting for? At the right time for you? And, since we are talking about concrete groups, how do we explain this variation, more than remarkable, of the percentage of professionals vaccinated in some OSI and others not? How do you explain that there are many more vaccines in Cruces than in Basurto, for example? What does your protocol say about this issue? And I guess they'll also make it clear that those non-integrated professionals in Osakidetza need to be vaccinated but that they provide front-line services such as doctors and nurses. I am talking about the vaccination of private health professionals, also exposed, like those of the public, to COVID-19. I have no doubt that the management of this process is more than complicated, that decision-making and action is very complex, that its role is very committed; but it is the one you have chosen to have and for which you have to respond. And this leads me to another doubt that it may be well for us to resolve today: who do you count on to design the protocol, to detail the listing, to specify the form of citation, the place of vaccination, the registration of each person immunized, the training of professionals? It is frightening to think that its expert advisers are the same people who make up the Labi – of whom no one doubts a marked political profile very close to this government anymore – who relegate to a background the health criteria, which are precisely those that should prioritize. These days we are also hearing many people – experts and not so much – talking about vaccines, vaccination protocols, whether or not this vaccine is more effective than the others, whether it is stored better or worse, whether it is more expensive than this, whether it inoculates the virus and that beyond the antibodies... The rain of information is such, that we live in the most absolute misinformation. And you, from the administration, reinforce this confusion. It seems to be the ground where they are best handled. But these same experts insist that it is best to know, that we all know what to do, the objectives, the times envisaged, the difficulties to be drawn. We were told in December that 70% of the Basque population would be vaccinated in the summer. But at the rate we are going, with just over 2% in a long month, I do not think it is likely to achieve group immunity before 2024. So it is that, recently, you have changed the speech to announce that the long-awaited immunity will be achieved as soon as possible, in the most efficient and orderly way possible. Bravo! 21st century politics, empty words that seem to mean something, but that say absolutely nothing. A smokescreen, nothing at all. Well, today it has a magnificent opportunity to give us a little more concrete expression to that "as soon as possible" and to detail that "more efficient and orderly way possible", because, so far, what we know is that its protocol, that which occupies two leaflets and is discussed by WhatsApp, invites confusion and allows contradictory readings, because we have been able to see that its surveillance system makes waters everywhere. Something's wrong and you know it. And I know from experience that today you won't recognize any fault, you won't even tell us the truth. All this, in a scenario where transparency is of particular importance. We need to know, people on the street need to know, even more who are threatened by ruin, who already live in ruin, who today open, tomorrow close and reopen but half, those thousands who begin to lose all hope of regaining the old normality, their dear normality. For everyone, hope lies in the vaccine, not in its management. And that hope is truncated by its particular management of the process, by its evident lack of the most elementary strategy. Because that improvisation that they've shown since the beginning of the pandemic is re-intuited. Because we know he doesn't tell us the whole truth. And no one has the slightest doubt that you have data. My questions are: what predictions do you handle in terms of the number of vaccines available? What kind of vaccines are you going to inoculate, and to what specific groups? What temporary horizon do you run? The real one, not the one in his political speech. Which priority groups have you identified, and what is the expected order of vaccination of the people who make up them? Who or who works in the design and implementation of this protocol? And an even more disturbing question: do they really have protocol?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u106	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u107	Mr. President of the Parliament, members of the legislature, chief officers, good morning again. Mrs. Martinez, I told the truth, I'm telling the truth and I'll keep telling the truth. Do you want to hear something else? I'm sorry, but the truth is that I told you in committee and today I'm telling you again. I am going to the question raised by the Joint Group, a very specific question. But first, before that, I will go on to comment – because I cannot ignore them – on some of the considerations he makes in the justification of his inquiry, and which he also mentioned in his speech. "The protocol to which they have repeatedly referred has significant gaps, and it still lacks much development in aspects such as the time horizon envisaged for the achievement of certain objectives and the priorities for vaccination of specific groups of people," you believe. It doubts the existence of such a protocol, which has come to fruition. The "protocol barely occupies two leaflets" and it is "impossible to get an approximate idea of the deadlines that the Basque Executive bargains for achieving the long-awaited group immunity". I'm sorry that weekly appearances have served so little, really, both you and me. And I am forced, again, to repeat things that have been said over and over again. As I said today, protocols that are currently supported for the insertion process have no time limit. One thing remains clear in protocols: the stages set in the strategy will be developed according to the availability of vaccine-dosis. It's not a problem with capacity, it's about vaccination's availability. None of the protocols currently in force for the vaccination process have any temporary horizon, neither that of the Ministry of Health nor that of Osakidetza, and I presume – I do not know for sure – that of any of the executives that you support in other autonomous communities. If anyone has been able to tell when they will be vaccinated, for example, to all people over the age of 80, I would really appreciate it. We do not know what the availability of vaccines is going to be, rather than the extent to which we are going to tell it further. And we do not have more specific time horizons that go beyond residences and health personnel. Because, as you know very well, vaccination times depend on the availability of vaccines. I would remind you that it is the European Union that has centralized and assumed the purchase of vaccines in order to distribute them equitably among all the countries of the Union. In our case, we also receive the amount which corresponds to Euskadi on an equitable basis. As I believe you will not ignore, to date there are only three approved vaccines, and serious problems of production and compliance with delivery commitments by the pharmaceutical companies, which, if there is no strategy, seriously endangers the immunity of the people who have acquired the first dose. I remind you that in Euskadi that is not so. He has doubts about the existence of strategies and protocols, as they are known and accessible. There are two basics, and I assure you that they have more than two leaflets; you just have to consult them, I facilitate them. I have referred to them on more than one occasion. The first is the "Vaccination Strategy for VOCID-19", of the Technical Working Group on VOCID-19 and of the Programme Presentation and Registration of Vaccines, here are the communities, the Ministry, professional associations. Its first document is dated 2 December 2020, updated on 17 December and 21 January this year. In addition, here Euskadi plays a relevant role because it belongs to the Programme and Registration of Vaccines, together with representatives of the communities of Andalusia, the Canary Islands, Catalonia, Valencia, Galicia, Madrid and Murcia. And on page four, he says that "depending on the availability of vaccine doses," I repeat, "depending on the availability of vaccine doses," the strategy sets out three stages. In the first stage, defined by the availability of a limited number of doses, the following population groups have been prioritized: one, residents and health and social health personnel working in elderly residences and caring for large dependents; two, front-line health and social health personnel; three, other health and social health personnel; four, persons considered to be large dependents, with three levels of dependence, i.e. with intense needs for support measures that are not institutionalized. The "COVID-19 vaccination strategy in Spain" indicates that it will be updated as information is available or relevant facts occur for the vaccination programme. It is therefore under continuous review on the basis of information on vaccines being evaluated at the European Medicines Agency, the EMA, the availability of doses of authorised vaccines and experience in their use in clinical trials and in the population. After a more comprehensive description of health and social health personnel, the document goes on to say: "Therefore, after considering vaccination to the most vulnerable and exposed population, vaccination will begin to be given to the older population group, that is to say, to the group five, people over 80 years of age and over". Not 70, 80 and over. As you can see, there are no temporary references and everything is conditioned, from the beginning, to the availability of vaccines. The second protocol, that of Osakidetza, is shorter because a reference is already available, the previous one we have commented on. He also has his six folios. For example, after describing the preference among groups of people working in health centres, it incorporates issues that are very important for prevention. Issues such as the inclusion in the initial phase of vaccination of a part of each service or unit, not exceeding 50 %, maintaining a range between one third and one half of the staff. I bring you only the index of the rest of the document: citation process, registration, vaccination itself, information campaign, special cases, clarifications and clarifications. They know that there is this document. I told you about him. This document is also updated and will continue to be updated according to the situation, according to the typology of vaccines without going further and, in particular, is subject to the availability of vaccines. He says that it is impossible to have an approximate idea of the deadlines that the Basque executive bargains to achieve the long-awaited group immunity. We have been saying, continuously, that we cannot venture dates for such a thing. And we won't because we don't want to generate false expectations for the citizenry. All the above answers your question: vaccination depends on the availability of vaccines, there is no schedule yet for other groups, but not in Euskadi, there is nowhere. And I'm going to respond to something that I have responded to on several occasions, and it's the administration of the second dose to the managers of the Hospital of Basurto and Santa Marina, now exgerents of both centers. We have said from the outset that it is a medical act, it is about ensuring the health of people. We're not gonna put that at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours. Please, outside the posters. You can't get a sign out. If you get him out, go outside, all right? It's understood, right? Please continue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u109	Mrs Sagardui, you did not speak, he says, of a temporal horizon. Yes, he did, he did talk about summer. Remember. In my first speech, I told you that this could be a great day if we all got out of here with more information about your plans to vaccinate the Basque population, to achieve group immunity. It could be a great day if in your answers we intuit a faint light at the end of the tunnel, the end of this calvary that we have been living for a year now. But no, we remain immersed in our particular day of the marmot; we lie down knowing the same thing we knew when we woke up. Well, I have to admit, there are days when we get into bed with more doubts than we had at breakfast. I'm convinced, and I'm still convinced, that they don't have protocol. And if they do, it is a fact that they do not want to face the difficult moment of giving it to us and to all the citizens who also have their hopes in vaccination. And this lack of transparency and commitment to the citizenry for whom you say you are working, only this, already discredits you as a counselor, even more discredited as your responsibility is one of the most sensitive in this difficult moment that we are experiencing, that you have been managing. It's one more reason to ask her to resign, to ask the lehendakari Urkullu to cease her. To be accountable to society, to demand that it take a step forward, take on its responsibilities and set an example to a citizen who needs to trust, who needs to believe that her future is in good hands, who urgently needs to know that those who are managing her day to day know what they are doing and have clean hands. Moreover, to this flagrant lack of transparency, to this constant exercise of opacity, is added the undeniable exercise of lying in parliamentary office. And as you have also seen throughout this full of control, not only do we think about Vox, I think quite a lot more people think about it. Their falsehoods have soliviated all representatives of the opposition and their explanations have not convinced even the doctor. Opacity, lies, obvious improvisation and improvisation, lack of commitment, following political criteria to the detriment of health care workers – which should also prevail in the management of this crisis –, no assumption of responsibilities and no self-criticism have been constant since last September. And to all this we must add the data of the pandemic, with a sustained incidence greater than 500 cases per 100,000 inhabitants for weeks, with hospital services increasingly saturated, as a result of its management and the failure of its own measures, the same ones that have not managed to slow down the rate of contagion, which have condemned – I repeat – the ruin of thousands of small and autonomous entrepreneurs, to poverty to tens of thousands of Basque citizens. At some point you will have to answer for all this, although after what you have heard throughout this full of control, of you and of the lehendakari himself, hotel a little optimism that this is going to happen. I have no doubt what will happen when, at the Health Commission next Wednesday, we hear what the managing directors of the Santa Marina Hospital and the University Hospital of Basurto have to say to us. They have shown that in Spanish they do not know how to conjugate the verbs "to resign" and "to cease". Will they know how to do it in Basque? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u110	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u111	Mr. President of the Parliament, thank you. I, Mrs Martínez, am sure of it. We didn't fall into the temptation to play on what most absorbed it, and we won't fall on dates that are not in our power now. I don't want to feed a false hope of the population. But I can say that he has an insertion strategy from Euskka and that we're doing it. We've guaranteed all the second doses. And we keep giving the first doses. That's the Euscatian example, planning and work. If they continue to ask questions on questions that cannot be answered, they will remain unanswered. And they know it. You mention the summer horizon. I remind you that that summer horizon was vaccine delivery planning. Yeah, that was, that was the pharmaceuticals' commitment planning for vaccine delivery. We, when we saw how its award was taking place, how there was only one, established a strategy, a strategy that guaranteed immune processes. But no, that doesn't want to hear it. But, look, we are not going to fall into the temptation to mitigate the tiredness and concern of the citizenry with this situation neither by venturing dates nor by creating illusions. To date neither the Spanish State nor Europe can foresee Euskadi. Nor can Europe, which is responsible for managing the recruitment of vaccines, foresee it. We didn't do it by not falling into the temptation to improve on the vaccine administration ranking. And we're not going to do it now, falling into the temptation to assert things we don't know. And it's seen, there's now no guarantee of constant vaccine supply. In other places this is creating problems in administering the second dose exactly as the technical dates of the vaccines set. In Euskadi, however, we can guarantee the second dose of both vaccines that are being administered so far, Pfizer and Moderna, and continue to administer first doses, although making daily and weekly adjustments. And that is no longer relevant, the ranking is not relevant, it is not relevant that we have guaranteed immunization processes. Euskadi is ready to vaccinate everything that comes to us from the European Union. We vaccinated almost 600,000 people from the flu in two months. If necessary, we could re-administer such a number of vaccines. As of today, 68,627 vaccines, 46,993 first doses, 21,634 second doses have been administered. Of these, 12,336 first doses in healthcare staff and 313 second doses in healthcare staff, 29% of Osakidetza staff. And we have to continue to guarantee the second doses because we set a strategy and a protocol that we are complying with. That's why we can do it. And that's called planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u112	Thank you, Miss Apple. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Ask the question, Jon Hernandez Hidedez, together with the lawmates of the Podemos-IU, to the chief physician of the Medical Department, to close a constant focus on the night." Mr. Hernandez, from there, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u113	Yes, thank you. I'm going to release you a few minutes, counselor, from the issue of vaccines. But I am going to ask you about something that seems very important to us and that, above all, it has thousands of neighbors, in this case Bilbao, but also other places in Euskadi worried and angry. As you recall, two months ago I asked you about this very question. We listen to him and urge him on that occasion, we ask him to rectify what, in our opinion, is a decision that weakens, in general, the public health system, Osakidetza, and that has negative effects on the citizenry, in this case Bilbao. He didn't listen to us that time. I understand that you have followed forward with this decision to close the night time of Bilbao's continued attention point, Deusto's, in face-to-face attention. And at this time thousands of neighbors and neighbors – through their associations of neighbors –, Osakidetza workers, associations in defense of public health, even the Bizkaia College of Physicians have been demanding the same question from you, they have come to you trying to explain the reasons, the importance of not closing the night-time presence of this point of continued attention; and it seems that you continue in your decision. You know it seems to us a totally erratic decision. I understand that they don't listen to us, but it would be desirable for them to listen to all these people and correct them. I believe that today you have a good opportunity to rethink this issue and decide to keep the night schedule in the open at the point of continued attention of Deusto. That is why we ask you if you believe that it is really a good decision to close this schedule at the point of continued attention of Deusto, more in this pandemic situation that we have right now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u114	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Reply... Quiet, please. You must be seated. Please have a seat. Here, in this parliament, there are rules and they told you. Please. And you shut up too, please, okay? Okay. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u115	President andrea, eskerrik asko. First of all, I think, I don't know if it's the best, but of course it's good not to confuse the neighbors of Deusto and the general population. The point of continued attention in Deusto is not closed. It is true that in one of his mentions he has said face-to-face, but in the other, and so the question is formulated, they speak of closing the point of continued attention of Deusto. And it doesn't close. The CAP is maintained and its service is also maintained. And they know it. What is being modified is the way in which the service is provided between zero hours and eight in the morning. Citizens who need care during this time, instead of moving to the centre, call the telephone and may request the assistance of staff at their home. The service is maintained and, in addition, it is even closer to the citizenry. So let's say that. Let's just say it is, not that it closes. And in addition, the situation we are in, we are in a situation of pandemic. Does it not seem much more reasonable to have such staff in primary care at places and times where there is a greater demand than at a time and place where the average number of people who come to the centre in those eight hours, between zero and eight in the morning, does not reach five people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u117	Counselor, I think you are the one who continually pretends to confuse. You and I know perfectly well what we're talking about. Today as well as two months ago I have referred to the night schedule in face-to-face care at the point of continuous attention of Deusto. You have to say it with all the words, Counselor, I have four minutes. And we know what we're talking about and, above all, the neighbours and neighbours of Bilbao know what we're talking about. The question is whether it is a good decision or not. And you say it's a good decision, and you argue it's a matter of reorganization, you even say it's better. You appeal that you have to choose between schedules. You don't have to choose between schedules. Night care is a service that was positive, and that is positive. And we know that many people with many pathologies, who we consider common people on the street, who we sometimes think are not so serious as to go to hospital emergencies, we turn to close attention, to primary care. And when it closes, we're going to leave a lot of people without the assistance they should have, because people, a lot of people, aren't going to come. And it is also contrary to the general philosophy that Osakidetza has been constantly defending: the importance of the points of continued care, the proximity of primary care, not saturating hospital emergencies. And this kind of decision goes against it. Counselor, we ask you once again to rectify this decision. And concentrating people on hospital emergencies, eight more or twenty more, is a bad decision when we're also telling people to avoid crowds and concentrations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u118	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u119	President andrea. But, you said it again, that nightly attention is kept. I, first, refer to how the question is formulated, and in the question it does not put anything in person. Second. Then, when he talks about the speech, he says that we do not keep our attention during that time, and that is that we do keep our attention. Moreover, home care is offered. He says, "To a lot of people." I've told you an average of five before, but I'm going to give you some data. I will forget 2020 because, as far as demand and health care are concerned, it has been totally atypical. But, for example, in November 2019, a month that has neither holidays nor holidays: of the 130 people who came at night, only 42 were from Deusto. From Deusto, from the neighborhood, close by, 42. The rest were from other neighborhoods or other villages, including Bizkaia. Of the total number of patients treated at night, only 9.8% were seen the next day by their head doctor, which gives us a sign of the pathology. It cannot be concluded that more than 90% were banal matters, it was not those chronic pluripathological, which may have compromised circumstances. And it is possible, moreover, that part of that 9.8% then was not considered a serious process, but a banal episode by his own head doctor when he attended to it. Keeping the CAP open from midnight until 8:00 in the morning requires the presence of three people throughout that time: medical staff, nursing staff and administrative staff. Three people, eight hours each to receive less than five people. I said it at the previous session and I have to say it. In a different context we can understand that proximity to the resource, avoiding citizenship that has to make a greater displacement, for example, to the Hospital de Basurto is a value that can justify maintaining the service. In the current circumstances, priority needs to be given. And besides, we're keeping it at home during that zero-to-eight-morning hour. Then the attention is guaranteed. And it is the CAP staff themselves who do so in that home care. That it is not, moreover – I take advantage of to continue giving it information – it is not saturated, because the average number of users does not reach one person and, on the other, because the emergencies of the Hospital de Basurto in that time zone, on average has eight cases of minor emergencies. As is clear, this service has capacity, more resources than the CAP and can cater for those processes that require its participation. Then the health care to the neighborhood of Deusto, the citizenship that accesses this outpatient clinic is also guaranteed and with all quality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u120	Thank you, chief physician. The 18th point in the subject list: "Interadectition by Isabel González Rodríguz, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos-IU team, made to the head of the Division of Equality, Justice, and Society, concerning the third state of the COVID-19. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u121	Well, thank you, ma'am. And good morning to all. Muskiz, Gechi, Bilbo, Zumia, Arechabalt, Irun, Biharin, Gasteiz... 1,000 people have died at the Basque Sea. Many of them were massive covid brotes. Sometimes, too, the brote repeats. And it's not just an epidemic, because it's closely connected with the pattern of the eucalyptic column. This is what we are really concerned about: the model that you, Mrs Artolazabal, defend and implement. It is the model of the two pes: privatization and precariousness. This government understands care as a business and seems a brilliant idea to leave it in the hands of the market. But you know what we tell them? That care is not a good of consumption, but of life, and that if there is no quality and worthy care, then what is there is death. Death. Necropolitics, which is called this. And I don't tell you, the facts tell you, and feminism has explained it to us over and over. We're on the verge of a crisis, and COVID-19 has just collapsed. I don't think it's a good idea to put pins and bells on it. And we're not in the first wave, and there's no more mistakes or miscalculations. What you do now is because you think it's what you should do, and that's what's serious. The actions of the public administrations, and of the Basque Government in particular, are being negligent. It's not that they don't know what to do; it's that even knowing they don't. Zer egin behar den jakinda era, ez duzuela egiten. I suppose they will tell us that the most appropriate one to ask on this subject would be the Health Adviser, who today, by the way, is nicknamed. But I am asking you today because we are concerned that outbreaks and the impossibility of controlling them will continue to be addressed without looking at them from the model of social services that we have. You and your department are essential. Hágase valer, señora Artola generous. Guided, co-ordinated, the root of the problem is in the socioscanitarian protection system against the pandemonium. And I'm going to sum it up. There is a lack of inter-agency coordination and control mechanisms between the Departments of Health and Social Policy. And that's how it works. The ball is passed between administrations from another window and, in the meantime, the figures continue to rise. I can go on, Mrs. Artola generous, there's no effective protocol or contact plan, there's a work interpreter. They've already done a few strikes at the hotels. Y la gente no protest escalator. "Proticus porque la están exspiando." I know it sounds repetitive, but it just seems urgent. The response must come from joint and coordinated action. Mrs. Artolazabal, look what I'm trying to do, but I just can't see that effective coordination from your department. And I don't want to tell you that you don't coordinate. I'm being so much harder. I'm telling you, you're being badly coordinated or you're not even allowed to coordinate. And that's how it works. Today I'm talking about residences because that's where we're living the bloodiest impact of the system. And well, we are being asked for reinforcement and prevention measures from the SAD, from teleassistance, from the third sector too, which bears the responsibility to respond. And here goes our interpellation. We want to know what measures are being put in place from your department, in coordination with other departments, to protect people from residences, residents, women workers, so that they enjoy effective protection, so that the well-being of our elderly is commensurate with the importance of restrictions on mobility, for example, so that workers have adequate information on the impact of vaccination or have confidence that it is valued and strengthened in their work. Because they can't go through the superpower of the first wave again. We know that there will continue to be contagions and that the saturation of hospitals will continue to increase, which will increase deaths. It's just that we're aware that we're in a pandemic. But what we are not going to accept is necropolitics, in exchange for, above all, economic gains or decoordination.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. [[Berber]] Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u123	The head of the table, members of the legislature, chief officers, good days to all. Mrs. González, it has been a very severe month, and, despite all efforts, it has been impossible for the public to escape from the tragic consequences of the Pandemidai in the midst of our whole European environment. There's been a very painful situation. Over the past few weeks, some outbreaks have emerged in the residential environment, as you said. These outbreaks are a reflection of what is happening in Basque society. These outbreaks in residences have been effectively controlled in this third wave, thanks to the experience accumulated during so many months of pandemic. In this long year, Basque institutions have been concerned and busy mitigating the consequences of the pandemic in our homes. A fundamental and basic tool to deal with this situation has been the collaboration and coordination between the Basque Government and the outlaws, which you yourself recognized as necessary in justifying your inquiry. With the Department of Health at the front, and with the support of the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy, we have responded inter-agencyly to such a serious situation. Important, Mrs González, coordination and collaboration between all the institutions, also with the Ministry of Social Policy. And now I'm going to read you textually something that seems to me to be important and to take into account. "We are aware that the care mechanisms have worked in Euskadi. A great effort was made by the residences to implement and respect the proposed circuits and measures for the prevention and control of infection. In Euskadi we have perceived more fluidity in the implementation of decisions, not as in the case of other autonomous communities where there was little collaboration between institutions, depending on who would govern them." And neither the Basque Government nor this councilwoman says so. I have literally read you paragraphs from a letter signed by Dr. Di Lello, who is responsible for the intervention of majors of Médecins sans Frontières Spain and Portugal, in relation to the report to which you refer on the situation in state residences. And this letter is dated, in Barcelona, on August 19. If you want, then we could talk about this report. I would also like to remind you that in the Basque Country we have, in these decades of self-government, an effective and decentralized system in which the outside bodies are the institutions directly responsible for the management of these centres. In other situations, unusual responses. We were clear, and it was necessary that health should be closely and correctly related, in this context of Eukadicus and the serious health crisis throughout the planet, different from the usual social co-ordination. "En Situciones extraordinaris, respuestas extraordinarias." From the outset, Mrs González, we had, and we are clear, that a close and direct relationship with the Department of Health was essential to enable this situation to be addressed differently from ordinary social and health coordination. Moreover, the management of centres of outside competence should be adapted to the pandemic situation, and that is what we have done. From the very beginning, contingency plans were approved in the Basque residences. These contingency plans were approved in the Basque residences. By the way, this is one of the recommendations contained in the report to which you refer in your justification. In addition, the inspection teams of residential centres with mixed staff, both of the out-of-town inspection services and of the Department of Health, were expanded, which is a pioneering measure in the State. And I can plainly say that the system has worked properly despite the objective difficulties it faced. Because the decree of residences approved in 2019 already covered most of the recommendations contained in that report to which you allude of Doctors Without Borders. And it is that our decree already marked among its principles to establish minimum conditions in the compulsory health area, personalized care, a model of quality of life, quality of management, ethics in intervention. Because our model of residences, regulated by the decree adopted in mid 2019, has nothing to do with the situation described in the report of Doctors Without Borders. Finally, I would also like to remind you that no attempt has been made in Euskadi to judicialize care in residences. Because one thing is the model of residences and another is the provision of the service of residences. In the context of this third wave, the Government continues to intensify its efforts to vaccinate all residents and professionals of the residences, to protect them and to give families greater security. And, from the greatest prudence possible, it seems that the situation is improving significantly and gradually in these centres. In this context, the Directorate of Social Services and the Deputy Councillor for Social Policy have been working intensively. And we have also focused on other key aspects to address this situation: the adequacy of the services that are part of the Basque Government's direct action in the pandemic situation. Between these services, I'd like to insist on an advanced Onna telehelp, the effective tool that old age helps to postpone entering hotels. We want to emphasise the efficiency of our old ones in modern programs, like All of them, the "Adi or Forever." In particular, the Betirako program has responded to families, including those with family members in residences, who have lost a loved one as a result of the covid without being able to perform a normal duel. From the department we have also transmitted protocols and guidelines of action developed by the General Administration of the State for different services and areas, as well as, in general, the channelling of information and the transmission of the needs observed on the basis of this coordination between institutions, and also with the Department of Health. A comprehensive list of actions in this regard has already been made available to this Parliament. On the other hand, we have also maintained the dynamics of the proper coordination of the Basque system of social services and social health coordination, and this coordination has been carried out through the relevant specific bodies, such as the Interinstitutional Body for Social Services and the Basque Council for Social Welfare. There have been many occasions when we have discussed and shared reflections on the model of residences in Euskadi, and it is not true, Mrs González, your assertion that the persons who use the residences have been left unprotected as it is reflected in the justification of your inquiry. Difficult decisions have been made at very difficult times and I would also like to advance some of our intentions for the future, which are in fact part of our planning. As you know, reviewing and adapting the residence decree is an objective of the department included in the government program and this adequacy is also part of a larger and more complex objective, such as addressing a model of care in its broad expression. In this review we will consider learning from the health crisis, but with a broader horizon aimed at diversifying residential alternatives according to needs. We will strengthen a person-centred approach, which is already covered by the current decree, without prejudice to the possibility of updating or improving aspects in this regard. A decree that we will refine to improve and strengthen health benefits, when necessary, but preserving the social character of health benefits. Secondly, we are also going to need to rethink the intermediate alternatives between residential centres, which are increasingly diverse, and home life, which are the preferred option to reinforce according to the desire expressed by the elderly themselves. Our aim, Mrs Gonzalez, will be to invest and to invest the pyramid of care, reinforcing attention to people living in the home from primary and secondary care. And I am concluding this first intervention. This week we were able to read in an article by a prestigious expert, in a media outlet in Euskadi, who said: "Euskadi invested in social protection EUR 20 billion in 2019, 5.6% more than the previous year". We must remember that at the moment public current expenditure, only in residential centres for the elderly, accounts for around 30% of public current expenditure in the Basque system of social services. We are devoting almost one in three euros to seniors' residences and, as you see, Mrs González, we are and will continue to be coordinated with the Department of Health and with the outlaws. Coordination that has the common goal of dealing with this pandemic in order to avoid the dramatic consequences that many families have suffered in Euskadi. And I conclude with the statement of the intervention of Doctors Without Borders: "We know that the care mechanisms have worked in Euskadi". Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u125	That's not spending, that's the model, that's not spending per person, that's the model, the model of how we spend it. I can hear you carefully, and I am amazed and angry in the same way. You talk of coordination, as if it worked beautifully, as if it were an absolute truth. Be honest. Look, reality baths. Night shift, a resident worker, 40 people, ask for review of ratios because they don't arrive, but you, no case. Well, they'll be coordinating other things. 60 minutes per user when the recommended is two hours in the residences, that is not worthy care. 997 euros gross per month, a misery. With the workers, Mrs Artolazabal, they are not coordinated. They close the service for the elderly dependent on the residence of Gallarta. It closes the CAP, that of Deusto, for example, the workers have been here today. The Bizkaia Provincial Council decides to dispense with 64 public places in residences, and this results in more privatization and more displacement for the sick and family. With families and users, Mrs. Artola generous, you're not co-ordinated. All the time we've been in the Pandema you haven't met them, no sign of listening or listening to their proclamations. We see that social services are being dismantled progressively. They talk about the person in the center, about not leaving anyone behind, about the auzolan, and what we see is that it's empty of content, it's pure and hard political rhetoric, and it also adds up and goes on. They are not coordinated with the workers of the residences, neither with the families nor with the users. Who do you coordinate with? Now, more than ever, we should have an open channel of communication and see what conditions are needed to strengthen, what measures should be taken, which are not being effective. Now more than ever, it would have to be the evaluation of the Extra Plan of Social Services, to know what's going on and what's not. And we still have no real or effective co-governance, no public or community stakes. And here it is enough to look quickly at the economy for the care of the Euskadi Next plan; it is enough to look at the budgets of your department, the same investment for the portfolio fund. Really, are no more squares considered necessary, no more public squares? Now you should be pushing for evaluation and research as to why you can't stop the outbreaks, and you should be exercising that leadership, and your department too. Every time we have proposed the necessity of changing the pattern, we have been told that the prince demands the full attention of his administration. And if we ask for information, it's not given, it's sent to us for the forum, time goes on, time's running out, we're accused of missing the level of view in the context we live in, or of being stupid in politics. In the end, in neither necessary nor strategic, no progress. Well, and it's not us who's hurting this, Mrs. Artolazabal, it's people; those people that the system has an obligation to ensure, for their right to social protection. Because we're leaving people behind, while we turn our backs on what all those reports that you mentioned and that we also know point to. And it's that the covid does understand class and inequality does condition its impact. By increasing the social ratio, the gender, and the economic crack, the negative influence is greater in the persons in the state of the greatest damage. We are not going to give up fighting for this change of model, but it is urgent that it act in order to strengthen social services. We must implement the covid protocols and vaccination protocols because we are going to live on it, and because now they will not be able to rely on what they did not know what they were facing. They're running out of excuses to keep moving. And I tell you, don't stand still on the road, Mrs. Artolazabal. Mugitu zaïtez, mesadez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u127	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs González, I am aware of the difficult and especially hard times that have been experienced in the Basque residences. We are not dismantling any model; on the contrary, what we are doing is supporting it. We do not remain motionless, but we are working; working from coordination with the different institutions with which we have to coordinate in order to be able to provide quality service at such difficult times. It is in the residences where the elderly are found, the most vulnerable group to this virus, and it is where we have been working intensively, not only the Department of Social Policy, but also the deputies, who are competent in their management and, of course, with the leadership of the Department of Health. The containment of the spread of the virus and the proper care and well-being of the elderly have always been our premise and the objective of all our action, and for this reason different contingency plans have been put on the table, different measures that have prevented major evils from occurring in those residences. But I am also aware that we have made much progress since the pandemic began; and that experience will also help us to continue to improve. We have learned and all that learning has also reversed in improving the care of the quality of life of people living in residential centres for the elderly. And I believe that the situation is favourable, in relation to the pandemic situation so hard that we have experienced, thanks to the model we have developed; because – as I said in my first intervention – the model, for us, is a valid model to protect people and guarantee the services and rights they have. But what you are always putting forward is the model of management of such services; the public versus the private. And in that debate, in that discussion, we have two totally different points of view. You only want a public service, and we advocate a public service, a shared public service, from the point of view of businesses, from the private sphere, and also from the point of view of the third sector. Because we believe that it is a model that enriches and that it is yielding results in the so complicated situations that we have faced. And, moreover, this model has been installed for many years now in Euskadi, and we have reliable examples of its success. We were the first, as I said, to establish contingency plans for the care of residences and other services included in the Basque system of social services. We have come together and shared our thoughts with associations, such as the one you mentioned in the inquiry that I was doing, Doctors Without Borders, who, of course, did not know everything that had been done in Euskadi. Because the study to which you refer is a state study in which they did not have enough arguments to be able to detail what we were doing in Euskadi. In addition, we also have, as you well know, specific care centres in all three territories for those infected elderly residents to avoid further contagion in their habitual residences. We have made PCR to all people, both workers and residents. And with all this I want to move you that since the beginning of the pandemic we have been learning a lot and we have been putting on the table a series of improvements that we have detected. Decision-making requires, in any responsible action, analysis, and sometimes is very complicated. And in this situation it has been. But, of course, we have done so from coordination and collaboration. In Euskadi, as I said before, the situation seems to be stabilizing. Most of the positive cases of residences have been transferred to the reference units that we had already established, foral reference units: Zadorra in Vitoria-Gasteiz, Birjinetxe in Bilbao, Igurco Unbe in Loiu, San José in Ordizia and Torrekua in Eibar. This implies that in the residences of origin of the cases, where these cases were initiated, there is no cut-off of positive cases, i.e., they are clean. And right now, positive cases represent less than 2% of the entire resident population, which, as you know, is more than 16,000 people. Besides that in 86% of the centers we no longer have covid cases detected. This is today's picture. Tomorrow could be another picture. What I want to say to you is that institutional coordination and collaboration and the model are producing results for these people, and that it will have to be improved with the experience and collaboration of all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "The question is, that Carmelo Barrio Barroja, the popular Group of the Ciudadans, a member of the Cultura and the head of the political Division of Language, about the office of the President of the sports elections." Mr. Barrio from there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, councillor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Well, it caught my attention, and more people, of course, on the last visit of the lehendakari to President Sánchez, to the President of the Government, one of the issues that marked the agenda, as reported by the media. And one of those themes was precisely the Basque sports selections, their officiality, their representativeness... Well, those things. We do not see, at a time like this, the transcendentality of that issue of sports selections at this time. But, apparently, there, at that meeting between lehendakari and the president, the issue was present. We do know that it is a symbolic question, a recurring question, but the truth is that at a meeting, at a summit like that, for the demand of fundamental issues, we did not see it, of course, urgency. We have also seen that his department's recent activity has focused on the issue of Basque sports selections, in the drafting of reports and in visiting Switzerland, Zurich, sports organizations to ask questions that are already known how they are solved, right?, issues that are already clear to the whole sports world. That is why it drew our attention to the fact that, at that meeting of the lehendakari with Mr Sánchez on European recovery funds, on co-governance and measures to restrict mobility or on the demand for vaccines, the issue of sport selections was dealt with. And that is why, in view of that surprise, I would like to ask you what action the Basque Government intends to take in relation to the claim of officiality of the sports teams, actions included in that agenda of the lehendakari from that meeting and from the activity of its department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u130	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u131	Mrs. President, Congressmen, fellow governments, Mr. Barri, good morning. Indeed, Mr Barrio, these are pretensions raised with light and stenographers, and I see no reason for anyone to want to fail. Neither you nor I will decide whether or not the recognition of the Basque federations in their respective international federations can be achieved. The Government defends that it is a legitimate and defendable ambition, and it will be the international federations that will say and decide whether or not to comply with the regulations they have established. The Basque Government has a firm claim to internationalize the Basque Country brand. And we are convinced that Basque sport is an important element for this. We therefore share with other institutions the objective of attracting Euskadi to international sporting events of the highest level. We have a strong commitment to support elite Basque and Basque Team athletes and athletes, so that they can compete internationally at levels of sport excellence, including the Olympic Games. And on the path of the internationalization of Euskadi, we will support Basque selections that want to be recognized by the relevant international bodies. This commitment is reflected in the government program and is a direct reflection of the amendment signed on 28 November 2017 between the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra and the Basque Nationalist Party in this very House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u132	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u133	Yes, thank you, President. Yes, thank you very much for the answer, Mr. Zupiria. But it is a matter that is resolved, that is, that is, that it is resolved. Let's see, the lehendakari handed over to the president of the government a report on unresolved issues and there was the officiality of the sports selections. But that issue, Mr. Zupiria, is resolved, so there is no need to distract. There are very important things to talk about in those meetings, aren't there? And we would like to know, if you can tell us, what is the response of the Government of Spain to this request, that is to say, to a document on unresolved issues where such requests are made, what it has responded to. Of course, it is a matter, as I say, resolved and settled. Resolved, of course, by the Constitutional Court. In addition, the issue of the selections and the officiality of the sports selections is assumed by the sports section. Established the international federative and organizational norm, which includes organizations such as UEFA or FIFA, to which you addressed. It is established in the Higher Sports Council, in professional sports associations, in professional club associations. In other words, it is only a conflict or an unresolved issue in the political imagination, in this case, of the Government, and not in the legal reality of sports policy. There will always be official Basque sports teams when there is no Spanish federation, right? Or when there is no Spanish selection. That's settled. That is to say, Mr Zupiria, I do not think that you can waste our time on other much more priority issues.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u134	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u135	Barrio jauna, the internationalization of Euskadi has as main objectives the search for opportunities for our industrial activities, the external development of our economy, the international projection of our culture and the international projection of our athletes, clubs and federations. On December 15, 2020, two years after a unanimous decision by its assembly, the Basque Football Federation materialized the formal request to join UEFA and FIFA, where it submitted the required documentation. The Herri Kirolak Federation is already a member of the International Sokatira Federation. The Basque Mountain Federation is a member of the International Mountain Federation. And the Boxing Federation is a member of the IBF World Boxing Federation. The Basque Federation of Piragüism participates in the world championship of kayak surfing like Euskadi, as does the Basque Federation of Pelota in the world championships organized by the International Confederation of Pelota a Mano. In 2018, the Surf Federation submitted the official application to join the international federation. And so did the Federation of Halterophilia in 2019. The Basque Football Federation just did it. I know that these same days the Basque Football Federation is in contact with international federations so that our women's team can play some international party on the next FIFA dates. The Government will support this initiative. And from the government we will continue to accompany the federations that decide to start the path of their internationalization. It is part of the government's road map to make the Basque Country brand increasingly known and recognized in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u136	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The twentieth point in the theme list: "The question is, that Muriel Larre Lasoa, the popular group of the Ciudadnians, a member of Tourism, commerce, and the chairman of the consuls, had been made to assist the Tourisms announced in the press." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u137	Yeah. Thank you, Madam President. Counselors. Mrs Larrea has not been able to appear because of force majeure and I would like to turn to the Councillor to ask the question concerning tourism, in relation to the aid which has been made public. The bottom line is that tourism companies – they say and their associations – are either dying or dying. And they consider that it has existed, there is insufficient and late aid. Among other things, travel agencies have been closed almost all since March; also bus events, companies, tourist establishments, because no other type of events or conferences are organized. That is, a drama for the sector. Well, Mr. Counsellor has already referred at the beginning of the morning to the plan, the measures and the order. But, in any case, we understand that it was those 21 million of the aforementioned plan –17,7 that were included in the order of aid for the support of the tourism sector announced now by 2021 – that appear to be clearly insufficient. We understand that question – I say it again – I also echo what I have seen in relation to the rating of those quantities, of those magnitudes or of that small effort that is being made at this time. And in this sense goes our question, with the closure of the hotel shop in the localities that are in red or in the other localities that take measures, the impossibility of displacement and mobility between autonomous communities, between municipalities, how does this money value? Clearly, it must be understood that it is insufficient and a little knowledge of the sustainability of the measures that the Government is going to address, not just this initial juncture.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u138	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Hurtado, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u139	Eskerrik asko, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Barrio, for the question. Well, in fact, I explained this morning, the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs has put in place a resistance plan for the tourism, hospitality and trade sectors, which already amounts to EUR 91 million, 70 in 2020, to which we must add 21 million that we have announced in this sustainability plan. We must bear in mind that the measures that the sector needs transcend this department and this coalition government, affect all institutions, administrations, and only by adding resources and coordinating measures can we be more effective. This is why contributions from other institutions must be added, for example, to cancellations or split payments, to the aid of the parliaments; the municipalities are also putting in place aid, in addition to reducing fees and subsidies. We have the extraordinary benefit for suspension of activity of the self-employed, the ERTE and the supplements to the lowest incomes by the labor authority – as already announced by the vicelehendakari Idoia Mendia – the consumer bonuses and others. We are aware that resources are finite. And what we have to do in these circumstances is support the most vulnerable and do so with the aim of sustaining jobs and activity until we can reach a phase of reactivation. As a councillor and a socialist, I cannot have a higher priority than that: to fight for jobs, tourism, hospitality and trade. I would also like to point out that this department is always counting on the sector in drawing up plans and aid. All our plans have been discussed, analysed and shared with the sector, because – from the minute one said so – we wanted to be allies. And we will continue to take action according to the circumstances, which I believe is the work we have to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u140	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. Mr. Barrio, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u141	Thank you, Counselor, for the answer. But, let's see, there are 17.7 million of the aid that is now being implemented. For what? For a huge network, that is, tourist accommodation establishments – with their corresponding headings and diversity in economic activities –, legal persons holding houses and rooms – also with their diversity –, tourism mediation companies – we have talked about travel agencies, etc., and their broad headings also in economic activities –, tourism transport companies, active tourism companies, professional companies organizing congresses, tourism guides with their headings... I mean, it's a huge frame. And 17.7 million is nothing in relation to what that order seeks, which is sustenance, isn't it? That's why I was going a little further, and I'd like to know what's going to happen. I mean, how are you gonna keep this in time? Because it has already been shown that in 2020 there was absolute dissatisfaction with the Basque Government's support for these sectors which you now included in your response. And how will this be projected in 2021? At the moment there are some aid announced, but they seem very inadequate and very timely. I mean, how are they gonna stay in time? As these aids arise, Mr. Counsellor, they are a small balm, not a cure and recovery treatment. That is to say, it is a timely and immediate approach. But we want to know the sustainability of this, what's going to happen, how they're going to focus on 2021 in view of what they learned in 2020. Because if you don't, it'll be terrible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u142	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Hurtado, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u143	Yeah. Thank you, Madam President. Well, you used to refer to what you had shared or talked to the sector. It is true that it is not your question and it is not the sector you carry, but well, I have explained to you the actions we are doing. Either he didn't understand me or he didn't want to hear me. But even if we put it in the mouth of other interlocutors... Look, I'm telling you what Mr. Carlos Garrido, president of the ECAV, of the Spanish Confederation of Travel Agencies said: "I want to thank the Basque Government, and especially its Tourism, Commerce and Consumption Advisor, for their willingness to work together. And I also take this opportunity to congratulate you on this plan to support Euskadi's tourism, which will include direct aid, which is so necessary for travel agencies." FETAVE, two days ago, recognized, together with EVE, the company of representatives of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, that it was "very positive the implementation of the direct support measures announced by the Basque Government, the first autonomous community that understands the reality that the sector is currently experiencing, with direct aid of an amount that, although not salvation for companies, serves to give a breath and halo of hope to many". Hosteltur News, from yesterday, reviewing all the autonomous communities, when referring to the Basque Country says that it is, by contrast, the most generous autonomous community, both the regional government and the three deputies. You speak of scarce. Places where they're not scarce, they're zero. And I have analyzed the help of all the autonomous communities, and if you want to go talk about each other, I've already told your partner. Communities governed by you are calling us, taking an interest in this plan to sustain tourism, because I insist, we have been pioneers and forcefully. And it's not a matter of taking breasts or competing with other autonomous communities. It is a matter that we consider ourselves leaders for our tourism sector, sustainable and of quality, and we understood that we also had to be the first in this support. This support is important: it is being recognized by the sector. And we have always been saying this: in the face of extraordinary situations there would have to be extraordinary measures. And we will continue to support all our sectors, but I believe that this work of comparison must be done. And you have access – I insist – to other autonomous communities where there are zero euros in aid to these sectors. And so I'm telling you that the sector itself is recognizing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u144	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. The twenty-first theme in the subject list: "To ask the question of the law-makers of the River Iritre San Viente EH of the party made to the chief physician of Tourism, commerce, and Constunam, about the establishment of a permanent system sufficient for the damages of the pandemies." Mr. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u145	Mr. Chief, good morning. Are you sure it's just a permanent system that's gonna be enough to help the damaged sectors?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u146	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. To answer, Mr. Hurtado, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u147	Eskerrik asko, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Iriarte. Yeah, look. As a tourism, trade and consumer advisor and as a socialist, my priority – as I have said – has been, is and will be the well-being of people and in sustaining their jobs. And I can assure you that we work on it every day, and especially at this time of crisis, so as not to leave anyone behind. I am not tired of repeating – and I said this twice today – that we have launched a 70 million resistance plan in 2020; we have started 2021 with 21 million in this tourism support plan. Most of them are direct support for the maintenance of the activity, but there are also other measures for promotion, dynamism and modernisation. In short, what you call a sustainable support system for our sectors. But it's just that, besides, we don't start from scratch. We have structural measures, which predate the arrival of the pandemic, because we have already been working on systems of competitiveness, sustainability and modernisation of the tourism and trade sectors. I am talking about programmes such as Hirigune – the development of zonal strategies for urban trade cooperation and dynamism – and technical trade offices – which are now proving to be essential for proximity trade – or, for example, market intelligence systems, both in tourism and in trade, with renewed observatories that we now want to reinforce with the help of European funds as well. And I can mention other instruments, such as the public-private partnership network, Saretour, in which the tourism sector participates for better tourism governance. These are just some of the examples of the work that has been done and is being done to strengthen the tourism, hospitality and trade sectors, with structural and long-term strategic plans, with extraordinary measures when situations are extraordinary – such as we are living now – and, above all, with the firm will to continue supporting the resistance of the sectors until the economic recovery arrives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u148	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. Mr. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u149	Mr Hurtado, I think it is important that we start talking about compensation and not aid. It has been the Administration that has ordered the closure or limitation of the sectors of commerce, hospitality and tourism. And we say it once again, we are very clear that health and the economy go hand in hand, that there is no economy without health. But, in the same way, we claim from the Administration and its department that they have to live up to the circumstances, and we see that so far they have not been. So far, your strategy was short-term. Covida and the ranger have been with us for nearly a year, and you are still at the beginning with him: with the same forms of action and action, you are reduced to a halt, and believe that this will come as it has been. And yes, pandemia will come, but on the way she will leave many families of guest, trader, and tourism. And it's in the government's hands to limit this slaughter. And for that, it is essential to protect this sector. Eta esango diguzue eagileekin zuzeneko harremana duzuela, inoizko diru gehien jarri duzuela, inoizko weretzun azkarrena... Baina egun hauetan El Correo Egunkarian Ángel Gago, Bizkaiko Ostalarien Elkarteko Ohiaren president elkarrizketa bat zetorren non argi eta garbi esaten zuen. Bertan galdetzen zioten: "During the pandemic have the institutions done less than could be expected?". Eta berak said: "A lot less, and in what bad form. It is not that they have lied, that also; it is not that they continue to lie, that also. Its management has been to lose confidence in the human being. The administration, with the pandemic, closed and fled." And I think it's important to consider a person who's been 35 years as president of the Bizkaia hoteliers, and I think it's something to take into account. The world of your world and people and hosts, of trade and of the families of tourism is very different. And in this state, too, you reduce to those who have worked for merchants and guests. You call it "just," but not "just," they're restrictions. And this is not possible. No help in the executions and reductions you must provide are indemnizations, and you must keep them in a continuous manner while all this state remains. There's money, but you don't want to use it, and you just opened the stable when you couldn't stand the pressure. You've answered on the pressure and you've given your help. You're going to get dressed, and we've been moving for a year, believing that this is all that's going to be done. And meanwhile, a lot of bars, restaurants, and shops, and lots of blinds that couldn't be raised again. On our side we proposed to give you a 200 million support or an injection in the budget, and you didn't refuse us, so you refused to give it to thousands of families who need it. The reason for this question is that we think it's not possible to open a stable pinscher from time to time. We need to talk indemnization, and we have to keep the economic grifo open in a continuous way while the pandemics, the closures, and the promise reductions remain open. If we don't, after pandemy, we'll miss the streets, because we won't have business in our streets, or in our streets, or in our little shop, or in our business that matters so important. And we're here today asking you, on Tuesday, we'll have guests at the committee, and we're ready to help you, ready to put the proposals on the table, ready to speak and to build this future together. But I think you should get off the absolute majority's horse and start talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u150	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. Mr. Hurtado, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u151	Thank you, Madam President. I've already told you yes, we insist that we go with the sector and we continue to do so. And the measures are shared and we all agreed that it was time, in November, to get aid in that direction. Direct, simple and fast help that is coming. I insist, of the 9,850 applications more than 60% have been accepted – more than 17 million – most are already in order of payment – 5,000 applications. And they started paying as we committed, before December 31st. And that's what we agree with the sector. And now we are also talking to the sector, and we are going to put forward a new aid plan that we have announced. And there we are going to introduce different and shared variables. You talk about ideas, but what you raise are amounts. I have not yet heard a concrete idea or a concrete formula. I, I insist, have here all the help of the autonomous communities with their different solutions and possibilities. Well, if you want to contribute, talk, we're talking, but bring you concrete ideas, concrete ideas that you solve. We will continue to work with the sector and adjust these measures. But we will continue to act because we believe that the situation is very difficult. For example, we now have closed municipalities and others do not. Are these variables going to be introduced into the new aid or not? Well, all these are things that we are working with the sector, but, as I tell you, first we have to make an assessment of public policies, finish this order of aid that we are doing. And we have already announced that there will be new aid for the hospitality sector and the trade sector within the most affected subsectors. That's our job and I'm receptive to listening to concrete ideas and concrete proposals; not volt-a-plump quantifications, which I think is very easy. And also in the budget measures or amendments could have made further elaboration of these proposals. But, well, we're on time and I'm willing to listen to all the groups. And, as always, talking and discussing and sharing the measures we are going to take with the sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-05.u152	Thank you, chief physician, Mr. Hurtado. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and thirty.
