ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I inform you that the twentieth point on the subject list has been left for another purpose. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, The Double Rajlbitz of the Eubertians made for Economics and the Chief of the Ogas Department, as far as 2022 Expeditions." Mrs. Bergeralbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. Mr. Subaz, good morning. In this conference we have a question which is addressed to you by the Eubertists, who have been admitted in the Council of Mars, in order to refresh and transform the economy by a view proposed in the budgets of 2022. We believe that these budgets for 2022 will have to deal with the situation of panic and economic and social consequences, but in fact they will have to deal with the unprecedented years. In your own words, Mr. Chief physician: "It will be twenty-23 without precedent. In order to this end, public investment must be maximised, and thus have to be used for all the means which are allowed and available." So by what has been said, the great investment plan will be designed and started to promote the big bets for the next year and the three big transitions will come. An expansive and investor budget, with an ambitious plan for the economic transformation of Euskadi. One (?) leverage, as you said, to accelerate this recovery phase with a key: investment. At the same time, we believe that the highly important view of the genus to our group is to be considered in budgets by financing explicit initiatives for the equality of genera. And, well, in fact, Mr. Chief of the department, the Eucabertist group asks you if you'll be able to determine the plan taken on the 20-22 General Preference in the Esunomia Esunia. And just thank you in advance for your explanations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u3	The President of the Parliament, Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature. Mrs. Berrojalbilz, as you have said, will be admitted to this week in the State Council with the budget for the 2022 Euscad Preventions, which will start the budget. I got ahead on Tuesday, and I'd like to put it back on the bill, these budgets will take an investment as a personality record. Because it will be the investment, indeed, the public investment, that will boost the big bets for the coming years and allow us to deal decisively with the three big transitions: technology-digital, energy-climate and social and health. The year 2022 will be an expansive and investor budget. We have the focus on recovery and economic transformation and we must take advantage of the unprecedented window of opportunity that exists until 2023. On the one hand, we have to deal with the crisis under the COVID-19 pandemic which lives in Euskka, and also with its economic and social consequences. And, on the other hand, we must face the principal ends of the government, in order to enable the extension of our strategy to take place in the palace, and to resist the romances of the countries which have now been strengthened. COVID-19 has caused a worldwide economic recession of unknown intensity in recent times. It is necessary to go back to World War II to find falls of the activity of the magnitude of this crisis. In Euskadi the economic impact has resulted in the fall in GDP in 2020 of 9.5%, something unprecedented, as I said to them, in recent decades. The fall in activity has generally affected all sectors, and particularly intensely the hospitality, retail trade and artistic and creative activities, and some other services. From the very beginning, the economic policy response has been strong in alleviating the short-term economic effects and preventing them from becoming persistent and affecting medium- and long-term growth. The European Commission has decided to promote an expansive fiscal policy, allowing a temporary deviation from the requirements to be met in fiscal stability, expenditure rule and public debt until 2023, and has also launched an exceptional measure, Next Generation EU. In the Basque Government we have a stable economic situation due to the financial strategy that we have carried out in previous years... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] Next Generation EU. In the Basque Government we have a stable economic situation due to the financial strategy that we have carried out in the years leading up to the pandemic. Furthermore, on 30 September 2020, we will conclude bilateral agreements with the State in the Joint Committee on Economic Concert, which will allow us to use all our resources on the figures agreed there to develop the economic planning that we need right now to get out of this crisis as soon as possible, and which undoubtedly goes through the unequivocal impetus of investment. To be aware of the budgetary effort made, it is enough to point out that we have presented a balanced budget for 2020, and the decrease in the collection of agreed taxes by 11.5% has led us to a deficit of 1.1% of GDP. I'm going to conclude, to say the existing window of opportunity requires us to maximize the opportunity to invest by pressing the permitted limits. We will expand all available ammunition to ambitious an investment plan that acts as a lever to increase the potential GDP of the Basque economy. It would be inconsistent to criticize the austerity policy imposed by the European Union and not to take full advantage of its relaxation. In this regard, I invite all parties in this House to participate in this investor approach and to support the Government at a crucial moment that will undoubtedly mark the future of Basque society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u4	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Second point on the subject list: "To ask, the last facts of Maddalen Irina, which are made to the President in the present context of the Union." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u5	Thank you, Mrs. President. Mr. Urkullu, good morning, good morning to all. Oso adi entzun ditut, Azpiazu jauna, oraintxe bertan eman dituzun argibideak 2022ko arrrekontuen jarraibidei buruz. I have listened carefully to what he has told us, and in summarizing it almost to a headline I would say that they will face the crisis resulting from COVID-19 and its economic and social consequences, in addition to meeting the main objectives of government action. Eta aipatu dituzu, besteak beast, herrilde errornka, window of opportunity. Yesterday, Mr. Urkullu, during the motion under the interpelation made by you, you weren't here, and the government teams used to have the head, weren't you? Zero self-critics, hand out, but vote counter. But I said of those who have been repeated to-day by the chief physician, that is what we plan, and before these great challenges, against these challenges of nations, and those challenges which will affect the succeeding generations, that we needed a new political book, that we needed new ways of thinking and doing, bringing them into political intelligence and political decisions. It is an irresistible challenge which we have before us, and we see, moreover, that the state has monopolized the political structure of the public space, and that it is conditioned by it and will remain conditioned here. And I'd like to know your rating in front of this incident. But before I answer the question, I'd like to ask you something. Mr. Urkullu, look, I'm always ready to listen to criticism. This weekend, the journalist asks me to listen, accept and understand it, but in the last few weeks, when I have no chance of answering, I've had the chance of answering, with the best will, the best of the Basque People, the best, the bad, or the average proposition, that you've given your opinion out of time, six, eight, or ten months later. And that I have not been able to listen to these criticisms, answer, and opportunity, and that there is another way of doing so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u7	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. I was here yesterday, and I voted anyway. The point was doubtful, just as we voted all the other points, and some of them I was present here, and I went on for a moment if I had not been present. Anyway, you asked me about a collective exercise 15 days ago, and I answered it. I respect your judgment, and I require you to respect the answers I have given you, or my criticism. Because these criticisms are generally answered by you in advance. Anyway, the question is, before the recent events that are being put in context, which is the rating of the President. And I still don't know exactly what the real question is. I wish to make it clear to society as well as to the course of the pandemia, that the present context is the following: Live on New Plan 3. The number of the dead is being less and less every week, 14 a week; a million people have received a dose of vaccine, and has received a full force of 60,000 regulations, and the law of preventive measures continues to advance their course in the law. And on the other hand, in education, culture, tourism, trade, or business life is developing and growing, and business is starting to recover. Therefore, knowing these latter positive events, when you ask me for my rating, my rating is also positive, and as many of them are in the context of the governed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours. [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u9	The question is, how to challenge these challenges as a people, and you tell me that you are doing it through a share of government. The plain fact is, that in the future, the more voices which are to be faced with, make it clear that the co-workership between society and people, and political actors and institutions, will be a necessary condition for managing new realities. And I don't see it exactly the way you're doing it. Look, I'm going to read you a text that I've read in these pandemic times, from the editor of the British Medical Journal, one of the most respectable magazines in our environment, which says that policy makers are still slow to accept the responsibilities of their decisions, but those same policy makers rush to blame the public, people, for the doubts, for example, about vaccines, or not to follow the official advice, even when those advice comes in the form of contradictory messages. But this is not exactly what I wanted to emphasize. Because he adds: "Public participation in decision-making generates confidence. And it is possibly more important in an emergency, when civil liberties are put at risk, and guilt makes the public lose confidence." This reflection in terms of health sums up the need for a change of attitude from my point of view. And counting on society means counting on its main actors, at all levels. It cannot be that citizenship bothers us, and that we claim it only every four years, when it has to vote for us. Because the university, the scientific community, the associations, the trade unions, the company of this country has great talent, probably greater than what is gathered between the walls of this Parliament. That's why I think a new diary is needed, answer...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u11	...responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u12	Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Irrie, the result I draw from your involvement is that you are still hating our autogony, institutions, delegation systems, departments and tools. Nothing is ever enough for you. You're always waiting for a quantum leap for a paradise, now you've passed from a collective exercise to a collective intelligence. And always looking at tomorrow without looking at it today, but you can't answer basic questions: What, how, when, with whom. We know the deep complexity of the Pandemade. We know that stepping forwards are the most effective strategy of success. On this road there is a reason for hope, a sanitary strategy, because the measures for New Life Plan and Prevention are offering positive results. We're working with all the organizations in LABI, with the responsibility of the government, working in a shared manner. We've reinforced the networks that help us with people, families, business, and weakest sectors. We are prepared for social, economic and employment recovery. We have approved the Berpiztu Plan, the Euskadi Next programme and the economic and budgetary guidelines. This House has adopted the opinion of the new anti-pandemic law. This opinion is based on a stocktaking of what has happened and what has been done. It sets out measures for the strategic objectives of the future, and improves the governance model. You did not want to participate in this collective exercise until you saw, at the last minute, that an agreement with another political formation was more than likely to be reached. In any case, we move step by step, as long as you stand in the opposition, together with the People's Party-Citizens and Vox. In any case, we continue to consider your proposals. But I ask you for a minimum of realism, and also coherence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Before you continue, say that 10 to thirteen points have been left for another time. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Ekain Rico, the lawmate of the Social Socialists, made by the second vice president, and the Chief of Staff and Emplegue, concerning the latest data of unemployment and Social Security." Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u15	Thank you, President. Egun where we're supposed to be. Madam Vice-Lehendakari, we Socialists are presenting ourselves to the last autonomous elections with a clear approach and a compendium of sectoral proposals that seek to define the objectives that we have as Basque society in the next decade, and the way to achieve this goal. But, together with this, which is important, it was up to us to take care of the urgency; that is, to put forward shock measures to take care of Basque citizenship and its economy in the face of one of the most serious emergencies we have faced in decades. And for this we set ourselves three fundamental axes: ensuring people's health, leaving no one behind, relaunching the economy and employment. We knew from experience that there are many ways out of a crisis. And we proposed from the beginning that we refused to get out of this with more inequalities, with a less cohesive society or with less lack of opportunities and a devalued state of well-being. The Basque Socialists take up the challenge, and all the indicators indicate that we are right when we take it. The Socialists, and you yourself, Mrs Vicelehendakari, taking the portfolio of Labour and Employment first hand, have turned to this government, to the social and economic recovery of Euskadi, the urgent thing, but without giving up the long look, which will allow us to face the great transformative challenges that we have ahead as a country, which is the important thing. Running away from any kind of triumphalism, the truth is that socio-economic data today point to a progressive recovery of the economy and employment. Employment and social security data, which we have known this month, mean that, in terms of registered unemployment, more than 80% of the employment destroyed during the pandemic has been recovered, and 70% in terms of contributors. But also fleeing from any kind of catastrophe, the truth is that, as the Basque Employment Strategy points out, structural deficits are dragging in the labour market, such as excessive... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... type of catastrophe, the truth is that, as indicated in the Basque Employment Strategy, structural deficits within the labour market, such as excessive temporaryity, unintended partiality, the chronisation of unemployment or the persisting inequalities in the field of women, are carried out. For this reason, and given the global data that point to the social and economic reconstruction of Euskadi, it seems important to ask him: What are the actions that the Department of Labour and Employment has developed to prepare for this moment of exit from the crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u16	Thank you, Mr. Rico. To answer, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u17	Well, we've prepared for this moment, haven't we? And there are also light omens of hope. The extension of the injury was the last impulse we needed, and in this legislation we are doing every challenge we gave as priority: to secure health, to reconstruct it socially and economically, and not to leave any one behind, The three of us go together, and we must succeed at three o'clock. And in this work which is unknown to all governments, we began to place solutions on the table. But everything has changed. The conduct which is divided is no longer valid, either in the government or in the government. Every decision we receive, every one that abides in taking, affects our present, but is conditioned by the future. We have to be clear about that, too. The control of the pandemic, the capacity with which we have managed to overcome each of the waves that hit us, has marked the evolution of the economy and employment. And here, in Euskadi, we have seen, above all, the great resilience of our productive fabric and our resilience. This department and this government has never given triumphalistic signals, because it would not be responsible. Today we still have almost 6,000 more unemployed people than before it started the pandemic, but it is 23,000 fewer than when the crisis began and 85% of those in an ERTE have already recovered their activity. We've all been able to protect the job. But our department turned to preparing not how much or when, but how to get out. And we were very clear that it was mostly about getting out different than in the previous crisis. To go out together, to go out with more quality in employment, with more protection from those who do not find it and from those who are not willing to access it. We decided to start by preparing the tool that makes possible the changes, which is Lanbide. In January we began its process of profound transformation to turn it around and in February we put on the table of the social partners a strategy of employment that raises the gaze to define the Euskadi in which we will live with quality, inclusion and equality. It has contributions from employers and trade unions. In April we approved it in the Governing Council and in May it received input from all the groups in this House. And at the same time we began the joint elaboration of a new law on income guarantee and inclusion, which has seen the light in May. And that after the proceedings, we will open it to the debate in this House. A draft that seeks, above all, to meet new realities, to arrive more effectively where there are the most vulnerable sectors, such as the elderly, pensioners and households with minors, and to be much more accessible to those who need it and more demanding with those who intend to cheat. This whole process is going together. We can't read it without each other. Volunteering with our Basque Income Guarantee System is of no use to us if Lanbide is not ready to attend to it. We cannot talk about real inclusion if we do not guarantee quality employment or if we do not activate the right to training and work activation throughout life. This Government has not completed nine months and we have already launched all its transformative elements. At the moment, while we are ensuring the health and protection of the rights of workers, we have three ways of working at the same time. And the stick that holds it is the same, the social dialogue. Everything this department does has that vocation of concertation and agreement. And that is what will make possible the social and economic reconstruction of Euskadi, which needs the reconstruction of social and political consensus in Euskadi, because that depends on our present and our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the hatred of Mi, together with Podemos, a member of the Anician team, made to the president about Eukadicus health condition." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u19	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Every day is more usual anxiety, stress, depression, panic, addiction, agoraphobia, sleep disorders. And the pandemic, the truth is, we've been billed. How much, how many of these, we've been in here today or some other day with anxiety. And it's not the things we discuss, we don't talk about this. Y esto tibie un nombre, que es stigma. Bipolarity, schizophrenia, TDP, anorexia, we still talk less about that. Suicide doesn't exist. The duel is set aside. Child psychiatry, what is it about child psychiatry, child psychiatry emergencies, how even the smallest and the smallest are having an impact on mental health. Today, Mr. President, I'd like to talk about this because I'm so concerned about the state of mental health and because we don't pull it from that end of the line. We're afraid, we don't like it. And I think it's time to talk. Therefore, I ask you: What plan does it have to strengthen the mental health system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours. [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. "Poes la pregunta que a me formula es qué valoción arte de la situción sanitaria en Euscadi." So the rating I make on health condition, Madam, is better than the one I've been answering you two weeks ago, better. Today, apart from what has been said earlier, the data of deaths is the lowest of 14 weeks since the first wave was over. The hospital bed occupation is the lowest of the summer. The ZIU occupation is at 71 yesterday, it's half down from the beginning of May. The rate of 100,000 population effects has descended from 180 and maintains a descending tendency: yesterday, 174. The smallest rates before were: in October 244; January, 234; and in March 199. And nine out of ten years of the population has already received a dose of vaccine. On the other hand, the operation has been renewed for a long time. You know these facts day by day, and you get all the information from the head of the health department, so the rating of the situation is positive and hopeful, and this tendency being continued in a state of emergency, is the time to strengthen. We must continue to reduce transmission and expand insertion. This is the most urgent and later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u23	Thank you, President, for the facts I gave you. In fact, I think that mental health has a very special place, very important, and I'd like to make a remark about it today. Orain, Ione Belarus minister haur eta nerabeentzako national plan beats Iraqis of the Orainxe Bertan, eta Osasun Mentalaren Legea era martxan dago Kongresuan. Eta nik uste dut Euskadin ere, also in Euskadi something like this is what we need. First, an urgent plan to strengthen mental health care. That would be a first step, because later on it could not stay out of the Public Health Act that we have to deal with in a short time with everything that has to do with mental health. This cannot be a subsidiary issue. The Basque Institute of Legal Medicine itself is warning us of the 27% increase in suicides and also that visits to the psychiatrist are increasing. It also tells us that Trankimazin, Diazepan, Risperidona, Lorazepam are common in the kits of our homes. So I'd say it's time to talk about mental health, to break the taboo, and we're going to bring that discussion into this parliament. There are already many people in the street who are working on the stigma of mental health, who are working on the stigma of this stigma. Sometimes, I heard some activist say, some mental health activist, say that precisely "the sanity is to approach madness without stigma and with dignity." It's up to us to get to work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Gorrotxategi, I assume you know that there is a health plan for which we work as a government, where care is also incorporated into what is mental health in general. I also suppose you are aware that we have planned to bring a health bill to Parliament this year. And in that sense, everything you put forward, which seems to me to be a relevant issue, a very complex issue, and which technicians and experts are working on, however, on the first intervention that you wanted to link to the consequences of the pandemic, because I suppose you are also familiar with the Betirako programme, where we and we are precisely working on the mental health condition also as a result of the pandemic. I invite you to analyse what the Betirako programme is, which has also had its projection in actions that we have carried out in recent weeks. In any case, throughout the pandemic, they have also now tried to ensure that the Government's action was free of two dangers. Before Mr. Ekain Rico referred to one of them, which is the excess of catastrophe, and also the excess of optimism. Because these situations happen to us. In any case, the situation is clearly improving. We have reason for hope. And yet, we must not lower our guard. For the moment, too much optimism, because the virus is still here, it also has these consequences. And we are fighting against a global pandemic and we are seeing, for example, the decline in the UK for the Indian variant. I am also concerned about the excess of catastrophism, and alert to manipulation and half-truths, biased comparisons of partial and punctual data. I think it is advisable to analyze the evolution of the three waves and to do so considering the data and the reality of each historical territory in order to be aware of the complexity of the situation. In any case, society has made a great effort for 14 months and deserves a contrasted explanation. I insist that the condition resulting from the pandemic, also within what is that interpretation of the... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... effort for 14 months and deserves a contrasted explanation. I insist that the condition resulting from the pandemic, too, within what is that interpretation of pandemic fatigue, is something that is worrying and occupying us. I think we have areas to be able to work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "Ask me, as Charles Iturgaz, the popular Group Angulo Euscal, the parliamentary members of the Ciudadans to the president, about the infidelity of Mr. Sánchez." My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, President. This past week has been worrying to follow the contradictions and mutual disarrays between partners. Mr Sánchez's Government has intended to impose measures of compulsory compliance, as we know, measures without a state of alarm by a majority, but without consensus and with a serious impact on certain sectors such as hospitality. Measures to which his Government had objected. And I'm glad. For moments, forgive me for telling you, you were put on the face of Ayuso, who congratulated me, but did nothing practical. He did not do so because even the Socialist spokesman, Mr Andueza, was in charge of watering down the Basque Socialists' initial strong reaction, and as his Government went on to denounce Mr Sánchez's disloyalty to the most absolute comedy. This week they did not even come to vote for the Interterritorial Health Council, which is the way to defend the hotel industry or other sectors. Others took care of appeal and justice acted, but we all remember the internal guirigay in his government, between the PNV and the Basque Socialist Party, and the accusations of disloyalty addressed to Mr Sánchez. Moreover, now his party, the Basque Nationalist Party, is the one that repeats the complaints that I made here in this control session 15 days ago, which reflect a remarkable crisis with his partner, the disloyal Mr Sánchez. That's why I ask you how do you appreciate the crisis opened up by Sánchez's disloyalty after knowing the measures of supposed enforced compliance?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u28	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Iturgaiz, above and beyond other considerations, I value the attitude that prioritises the search for solutions and I value the ability to find them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u31	Look, Mr Sánchez is disloyal, he is not the subject of debate. We all know that it is because of all the Spaniards organized under the Constitution of 78, to which he is unfaithful, no doubt. That there is a crisis of relations between partners of government, of this Frankenstein government, is also not the subject of debate, lehendakari, there is, I have often argued the futility of such a close association between the PNV and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, of the Basque Government and the Sánchez Government, useless in terms of stability or prosperity, of democratic freedoms or of pure budgetary selfishness, is looked at where it is looked, because even you have at some point never been met, but it is not that I say it is that, look, when the National Court fell down the famous measures, Mr Mediavilla again raised his voice and spoke of crisis to the clear. Two weeks ago you wanted to escape my question, but now it is the Burukide, the Burukide (...), who sees grievances in the TAV, in the minimum income vital or in health, the same ones that I mentioned to you and he describes it as a crisis, and point out with names and surnames to the ministers, to the sector of the government that accuses of causing the crisis. And they've already put the recipe on the table to fix it. I do not know if it is the Catalan mirror or the nostalgia of the Plan de Ibarretxe, but both Mr Ortuzar and Mr Mediavilla themselves bet to pull the famous new status out of the drawer to stir up that new scarecrow, true advocacy of disloyalty towards Basque democratic society. My impression is that Sánchez's disloyalty wants to add his own, his old disloyalty with the Basques, with the coexistence between Basques, with pluralism and freedoms in the Basque Country. And I would like you to deny it, Mr Urkullu, that you would offer guarantees that you will not undertake from your government roads anywhere, taking as a pretext the disloyalty, mark of Mr Sánchez's house; that you will know in the Catalan mirror the face of a society as divided and confronted as was the Basque with the Ibarretxe Plan, because your obligation is to prevent the division and rupture between Basques from being repeated. The question, lehendakari, is whether, after three years of supporting everything that was not right for the Basques, they will be able to avoid their own disloyalty towards Basque society by doing so, the precedents are bad. You have the opportunity to write a better page of our history.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u32	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. So that the ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the ladies and gentlemen of the Council and the audience, in general, know what the original question to me is: how do you appreciate Mr Sánchez's disloyalty after knowing the measures of supposed compliance approved by the Interterritorial Health Council. This is the original question. Look, Mr Iturgaiz, it is true that I asked to maintain the state of alarm or an alternative that would guarantee legal certainty, as you proposed, but that I still do not see it effective, Mr Iturgaiz. This alternative was not appropriate and I believe that, after the state of alarm has fallen, the role of the Inter-Territorial Council has changed, which must come up with recommendations, because we also have competence in health matters, and it is true that we have committed not to judicialize these decisions and we have done so. You're asking me to concentrate on playing, and what I most appreciate is our ability to agree on our career page and apply the measures of the order that's been made... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... You ask me to concentrate on success, and what I most appreciate is our ability to agree with the page of the journey, and the power we have shown to continue to apply the measures of the decree. What happens in the meantime will always be our position in defence of nature and to defend us. And I value that we are now in the course of our daily reduction of the communal transmission of the virus, as we progress in the insertions, we continue in the heat of health, and the preservation of these two positive directions is the priority which I appreciate as much as possible. You insist on talking about the Spanish Government when we are in the Basque Parliament in a control session to the Basque Government, you know what the Basque Government's Programme is. You insist on talking about the Basque Nationalist Party mixing it with the Basque coalition government. Look, I do not deny that tensions have occurred with the Spanish Government, but I nevertheless recognize and value the capacity to renew the situation and seek agreements, and my responsibility is to defend Basque self-government and all our capabilities, and my commitment is not to feed political controversy any more than necessary, because the priority remains to give a joint and effective response to the health pandemic and its consequences. You insist on talking about disconcert and division in the Basque Government when, in collaboration with all the institutions participating and present in the LABI, we are working together with the same goal, which is to overcome as soon as possible this pandemic that is affecting all the communities and all the countries of the world. According to the personal well-being survey, the overall satisfaction of Basque citizens with their lives has increased despite the pandemic. It was 7.1 out of 10 in 2014 and now it's 7.6, remarkable. This is also what I value, the well-being, health and life of people. Therefore, Mr. Iturbius, I chiefly appreciate and appreciate public health in this state, and in these difficult moments we have been able to produce good results, and there are three reasons or three reasons for this: eupscal, the efficiency and professionality of the health system; to determine suitable measures from the hands of the responsible, to suggest and agree; and the exemplary attitude of the euscal society. This is the loyalty I owe to society of eupscals. You speak to me of loyalty, and this is the loyalty I owe to the euscan society: On the one hand, the execution of the government, and on the other the preservation of the health, the well-being, and life of all men. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Ask me, Amaia Martíne, the Greyleha of Misto, a member of the United States of the Misto Group, about the dangers that are in the Euscal Autonomy community." Ms Martínnez is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u35	Thank you, Madam President, good morning, Mr Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the parliamentary groups. Mr Lehendakari, Vox is born in Álava, in fact you know that from there is our president, from Álava. It represents 18,000 Basques in this Parliament, and since its birth we have been the subject of an unprecedented ongoing campaign of harassment and destruction. We suffer an infamous anti-democratic cordon promoted among others by Bildu and by you, the Basque Nationalist Party. The reality is clumsy and the last few weeks have come to point out that those who cry, tighten the rope and maintain fascist attitudes are those of Sortu. Mr Lehendakari, how do you intend to address your relationship with Sortu, a political force that refuses to condemn violence and continues to use it as a political weapon?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u36	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u37	Eskerrik asko, legebiltzarburu andrea. Mrs Martínez, since the exercise of my institutional responsibility and function, my relationship has been trying to occur with all the parliamentary groups in this House, therefore, with Euskal Herria Bildu, in the same way as with Vox, even though you refused to meet with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u39	Mr Urkullu, his own vice-lehendakari first, Mr Josu Erkoreka, says that Sortu, his youths, are a danger to coexistence in our society. Mr Ramiro González, deputy general of Álava, has also called for the expulsion of the violent. In addition, it recovers part of the Left Abertzale, recovers the terms "zipaio" and "txakurra" to refer to our Ertzaintza, our Basque Autonomous Police. I hate and violence that reminds us of a time past, a time past dyed with blood. It is very dangerous, Mr Urkullu, to normalize these behaviors, hence that Ernai is now in the hands of Justice. You, Mr Urkullu, solemnly demanded to the left abertzale to abjure violence, remember, but you did not say what would happen if you did not. And it's a fact that he doesn't do it, and there's no way he's going to do it. But what is your role in this game? They are covered by Parliament, while accusing Vox of being a risk to politics. The PNV is complicit, because they are not brave, Mr Urkullu, they are not. They prefer to silence and curtail the rights of 18,000 Basques, people who, in addition, I assure you, are good citizens, and whose only crime has been to introduce a Vox ballot into the ballot box. The words support everything, but the facts do not, Mr Urkullu. You have contributed to Mr. Otegi being considered a man of peace, knowingly... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... They support everything, but the facts don't, Mr. Urkullu. You have contributed to Mr Otegi being considered a man of peace, knowing that his condemnation of violence has been a mouthpiece. A false renunciation, which is the endorsement they also use to justify the policy of rapprochement and the plan of resocialization of prisoners. The reality is that violence remains part of Sortu, part of its essence. Mr Urkullu, who are you, who make an anti-democratic cordon to a party like Vox, which is completely democratic, while you deal with Bildu, yes, you do. Pactan with Bildu and, in addition, they are photographed with Bildu. Mr. Urkullu, are you going to keep playing the game for them? Mr. Lehendakari, I end up saying what the silence gives.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u40	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, I repeat to you the answer from my previous speech, that since the exercise of my responsibility and my institutional role, my relationship has been trying to occur with all the groups represented in this House. And there is a group that is Euskal Herria Bildu, and within that group there have also been voices in relation to convictions about the painted ones, which have been different voices from others. My role, therefore, is to respect political representation in this Parliament in a parliamentary group, EH Bildu. And you, in the justification of the question, also mention what the statutes of Sortu are. Which you did not say here in your speech. In any case, therefore, my relationship will be with EH Bildu in the same way as with Vox, I insist; although you have refused to meet with me, Mrs Martínez. Look, the commitment of this Government, coinciding with a large majority of this House and Basque society, is a clear and determined commitment to coexistence, based on respect for all human rights, diversity of thought and feeling as an exercise of true democracy. I abrogate the goal of coexistence with total conviction and determination, emphasizing the unreasonance of violence and terrorism, advocating for a basic ethical and democratic commitment. It's part of our idea. It is a priority in our public responsibility. This bet is based on four principles. One: the radical delegitimization of the unreasonance of terrorism and every expression of violence. And from the 60s of the last century until ten years ago, ETA, and its attempt to eliminate the different and impose a political project through violence, has meant the most serious violation of the right to life and democracy for half a century of this country's history. This explicit and unequivocal recognition must not hide the fact that Euskadi was also the subject of extreme right-wing terrorism and other violations of rights on political grounds. We must delegitimize without equalization, without compensation, without excuses. And this radical delegitimization requires not only recognition of the damage caused by terrorism, it requires an ethical inquiry. An interpellation of which only a double conclusion is possible: it was unjust and never again. Two: legal and institutional, social, symbolic and moral recognition of victims. We have made much progress in legal and institutional recognition, and we also do so at the symbolic social level; and we owe the victims the most radical, profound and sincere moral recognition, because their suffering was unjust. Three: an open, inclusive, critical and ethical memory, woven through the eyes of the victims. A memory that includes all the looks, all the facts, all the experiences. A memory that highlights the commitment of a large part of the men and women of this country to peace and freedom. And four: coexistence. Living together in diversity, living together among those who think and feel different. Living together does not mean imposing or renouncing, it means respecting, recognizing, empathizing, dialogue, sharing. It means effectively protecting and guaranteeing the rights of all people. These are the principles in which I am sure a vast majority of Basques and Basques are recognized. These are the foundations on which we want to build the present and the future. A just, democratic, ethical basis for all. And forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "To ask the question, "Myria Kortja, the lawmate of the Council of the EH Collectors, made of the second vice president and the Chief of Staff and Empedugus, of the transfer of the minimum amount of living money." Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u43	Thank you, ma'am. Mountain chief. For the past few weeks, there's been a lot of fun and the Spanish government about the minimum rent transfer. I'm sorry, Mr. Escrivá Minister refused to transfer pure management, because he didn't reduce the functions and transfer the resources. And we agree with this position, it's not quite pure management. As the subject has a great influence on the project that you introduced just a few weeks ago, so we want to ask you that the minimum rent transfer to live will be given as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. To answer, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u45	Thank you. It's nice to see you and your team agree with the position of the government. He assures me that he's going to complete his government program. This program involves transfering the minimum income of life. And that's what the minister knows a long time ago. And I've designed a new eupcal system to guarantee revenues that the whole transfer is on purpose, as you said, and my scene and the focus of the Fybernu is a deal. We work with it. In fact, I'm supposed to say if there wasn't that transfer, there's no point in managing it... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... the stage is an arrangement. We work with it. For I must say, if there is no such thing as this transfer, it makes no sense to care about its management, as well as we must make it clear. We want to do things easy for the citizens. And we have a very good protection system here, Euskadin. It is a pattern to other communities, as well as to the Spanish Government. IMV's reference is RGI, and the logical is integration. And for that, we work with the Spanish Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u47	Yeah. The Euscal People, they think, should the transfer of the minimum income to live on more and better protect our members, shouldn't they? The thing is, it's all about my plans, at least now that he's sitting on the table, that's not it. No? You know, like, you know, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, you know, you know, like, like, like, um, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, When a year ago the agreement for the transfer of minimum vital income was reached, for the management order, we already said that it was a minimum agreement to avoid the chaos that could be generated at that first moment. From what I've seen, I don't know if that chaos has been avoided, but it's a minimum agreement. Gure own system trinkotzeko, zabaltzeko eta indartzeko aukera leiho bezala ikusten dogu minimum income vitalen transferentzia. But what Minister Escriva proposed, of course, does not allow that integration that you were commenting on at the moment. And besides, far from that, it totally subordinates the GIR to the minimum vital income. And I'd say it's a torpedo to the very design you've made in your income guarantee income reform proposal. We must use this critical moment to start a new design of our system, which we agree. We believe that we must go to a more universal model, less conditioned, more normalized, and more accessible and efficient. But that requires complete transfer, and demands immediate existence. Not only that of the minimum vital ingreso, but also of all the subsidies and benefits which are brought back to passive employment policies. Because this isn't just about minimum living income. The concern raised by Minister Escrivá is that this transfer should be the foreground, the foreground, to the transfer of other passive employment and social security policies in general. And that, 40 years later, this transfer is taking place in the terms in which it is being proposed by Minister Ecrivá, because it is quite worrying. And of course, we, 40 years later, do not want nor will we admit to becoming a branch of Spain. We're not gonna admit it. Aukera paregabea dugu aurrean, babesa zabaltzeko, jendarteari helduleku bat eskaintzeko, gure system hobetzeko, but we need guarantees that the transfer takes place in its entirety, without further delay. And that's what we're asking. We will work in that direction, but that is what we ask, both you and this government: that the transfer takes place in its entirety.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u49	We, as I told you in the previous shift, do not pose any other scenario than a full transfer of the minimum living income. And we have been saying this, and you know it at first hand, because I have moved it to you on numerous occasions at the meetings we have held since I took office as a Counsellor for Labour and Employment, which we are only considering the full transfer. Why? Well, because, first of all, we have a very complete system of social protection. Secondly, we are in the process of reforming that system, which has the IMV as part of it, and of being integrated into the system. Why? Because in the end, in order to give good service to citizens, we need the citizen not to know exactly or not to know where he or she receives it, but to receive the benefit he or she needs to live a dignified life. We, from the very beginning, have maintained working committees, because, when I took possession of it, we had the management commission, we had to make a bilateral commission, we set it up. We are working with the Ministry to make the IMV a reality for all Basques and Basques who are entitled to the IMV, while working from the Department of Counsellor Garamendi and us to make this transfer materializable in a short time. The proposal sent by the Ministry, of course, is not satisfactory; we consider it a starting point from which to start work. And we don't see Lanbide as a branch of another administration at all. As I told you in the first round, if the transfer did not materialise in an integral way, of course, we would not be managing the IMV. But what we are clear is that this relationship with the Ministry has to continue working on these monitoring commissions, at different levels, from my Department to the Ministry in terms of the transfer between RGI and IMV, and in terms of a commission also held with the Ministry of Territorial Administrations and the Department of Governance in terms of the transfer. Therefore, we are not going to assume a transfer that does not involve the complete and full management of the minimum living income, in what it has to do with the recognition part and what it has to do with the payment. And that is a shared position of the Basque Government as a whole, lehendakari, the Councillor of Governance, and myself, which I have to manage. We, in Euskadi, and we have already said it many times, have been able to create a guarantee system...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Your time is up. The eighth point in the subject list: "Internation, about the amount of hard increase of electricity, and its negative influence on the sizes of the Eulegious Eulegious Esquilli-Ciudadans' organization, the Economics Department of Economy and Environmental. " Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are asking the Government about a topical issue, which I would say is very topical, which affects and concerns all Basque citizens and businesses in our economy: the high price of electricity. As we all know, the... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... I would say that it affects and concerns all Basque citizens and businesses in our economy: the high price of electricity. As we all know, the price of electricity affects, above all, families with less economic resources and businesses. For families with fewer resources, paying for light is a problem that affects their daily lives, because they are forced to give up the heating, cooling or water heating system or to be unable to use basic appliances for daily life. And in most companies electricity is the second most important cost, after wage costs. And in electricity-intensive companies, such as those in the metallurgy sector, for example, there is an increase in costs which makes price competitiveness critically difficult for them. And we have the most expensive electricity price in Europe, from behind... just behind Ireland, Italy and Slovenia. Electricity in Spain is 21.4% more expensive than in France or 25.8% more expensive than in Germany. Given that 46% of Basque exports are to European Union countries, how will a Basque company in Europe compete with one of the highest energy costs? And the reality is they do it, they do it in spite of everything. And today is a good time for us to demand from here the effort they make to compensate for these added costs in another way. In case it were little, now we are experiencing an unprecedented increase in electricity. On Monday 7 June the highest price of electricity in the wholesale market occurred at eight o'clock in the morning with a price of 90 euros megawatt hour, leaving the average price at 79.69 euros megawatt hour for a day. A year earlier, on Monday, June 8, the peak was 32 and the average price did not reach 30. And today I think we were alike. We are suffering the most expensive electricity prices in recent years, only surpassed by the price escalation that occurred during the oil spill Filomena in January, which in this case caused, in a short time, an increase during two weeks of the pool price above 100 euros megawatt hour. According to the simulator of the electricity bill collected on the website of the National Competition Market Commission, the electricity bill for a user who consumes 300 kilowatts at a power of 3.45 kilowatts has increased in the last year by 45,01 %. Which family today can afford an increase in the price of the light bill by 45%? And the main components of this increase, which is a subject with some complexity, are two: the increase, on the one hand, of CO2 emission allowance prices, which have exceeded new record levels by an increase of 120,8 % in the last year, and the increase in the price of gas consumed in combined cycle plants, which is up to three years. Both reasons confirm that the increase we are now experiencing in electricity prices is not a short-term fact, but is going to be sustained over time. However, both factors, CO2 emissions allowances and gas prices, also have an impact on the rest of the countries in our environment. And yet we find that the average monthly price in May, 67.21 euros, was the fourth most expensive in the European Union, just behind Ireland, 96.73; Italy, with 69.91 euros, and Slovenia, with 69.5. Being 25.8% more expensive than in Germany and 21.4% more expensive than in France, direct competitors of many of our exporting companies. This rise in the price of electricity is now mixed with the new tariff bands. And they'll be with me where they haven't been well explained or implemented at the best time. And instead of an appropriate explanation, what we have on the part of the government is a series of recommendations on which we have to put the washing machine at 12 o'clock in the evening, with absolute insensitivity to both vulnerable and self-employed consumers, teleworkers and businesses, because those who are charged the price of electricity 45 % cannot be recommended to board in the morning. And to this it is added that Spain is among the European countries that apply higher VAT to light. While in Spain it is taxed with a scandalous 21%, in Germany it is 19%, in Italy 10%, in Greece and Portugal 6% and in France, which is very close, 5.5%. And let us not forget that additionally electricity is penalized in Spain with the electricity tax, which adds another 5.11%. And that, according to an OCU spokesman, it is intended to finance the autonomous communities. And part of the problem is that the electricity market in Spain is dominated by an oligopoly, in which three large companies control 60% of auction bids and their subsidiaries more than 60% of purchases. And so far I imagine that many of you will be thinking, and why does he tell us about a subject that does not affect or that does not depend directly on Euskadi? We are aware that this is not a matter directly dependent on the Basque Government or under our control in this Parliament, but we are bringing it here for a number of reasons. Firstly, because we have in this House and in this Government the same two parties that are ruling in Madrid and that are therefore responsible for this situation that they so much denounced when they were in the opposition. Secondly, because both Bildu and PNV could require their partner in Madrid to move a file on it and they are not doing so. And, thirdly, we bring this matter here because it is very relevant, it affects our vulnerable groups, it affects our businesses, it affects competitiveness. And both matters are within the competence of the Basque Government and should be occupied and deeply concerned by it. Moreover, according to the annual report of the Electric Network, Euskadi is the autonomous community with the lowest renewable power ratio installed on the Iberian peninsula, only 16%. And this makes us dependent on gas, as has been said here many times. In Euskadi we are paying for an energy policy that has not been for years, it has not been aligned with the green policies that all governments have been betting on for a long time. And we do welcome the Basque Government's commitment to renewable energy today, but until we reach the network of renewable power ratios such as Castilla and León, which has 81% or La Rioja, which, as of December 31, 2019, had 150 megawatts installed more than us, we have a long way to go. And there are many things that can be done from here to alleviate this situation, measures in the short, medium and long term. From here. In the long term, we need to put on the role, with concrete investments and implementation dates, the initiatives that are included in the Climate Change and Sustainability Act, which are enough. But in the short term we have a problem, because we have not done our homework. And we think that a good measure to alleviate the excessive increase in the price of light is to reduce VAT. We know that it is not the Basque Government's direct responsibility, but we believe that they can insist on Madrid to do so as they do on other issues. And in the meantime, you can make up for this increase with grants, cheques or bonds, even subsidize, if you need, directly, the costs... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ...as they do with other subjects. In the meantime, it can compensate for this increase by means of grants, cheques or bonds, even by subsidising, if necessary, directly, the additional costs of electricity, strategic industries, SMEs or vulnerable groups. That is why it was important today to ask the Basque Government what initiatives the government has put in place to mitigate the strong impact of increasing electricity on vulnerable, autonomous users, SMEs and businesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u52	Thank you, Mr. Gil. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments and congressmen. Mr Gil, you were saying this, we are at an international juncture which is currently causing energy prices to be high, affecting oil, natural gas, CO2 emissions and influencing energy markets everywhere. The Basque Government, you said, has no competence in regulating markets and energy prices. Therefore, these actions are the responsibility of both the Ministry and MITECO, as well as the CNMC. And from Euskadi, and by virtue of our Statute of Autonomy, our competences in this field are limited to the development and implementation of the basic state regulations. I remember. On the basis of this, we have developed, without overextended, a series of regulations and I will refer to two specifically, which we have recently adopted. On the one hand, in order to optimize the consumption of companies in the Basque Country, Law 4/2019 of 21 February, or Decree 254/2020 of December, both of which provide for energy sustainability that includes the requirements and measures set out in Royal Decree 56/2016, in reference to energy audits and the improvement of energy efficiency in companies. And forgive me for reminding you too, one thing is that we encourage collaboration with companies and their energy efficiency, and another that we establish direct aid which, of course, is contrary to competition, as you know, and which would be directly regarded as State aid. Therefore, within its powers, the Government – beyond being limited, I insist, by this regulatory power in the state – we are watching over the interests of Basque society and companies. From society, since, in this House, they have been debated and implemented – and the councilwoman is here – aid to citizens in a situation of energy poverty and, therefore, they have been launched, not in this legislature anymore, because it said that today we have to talk about this issue, it is that we have been talking about this issue and establishing measures and implementing actions for a long time, not today. As far as the industrial sectors are concerned, what do I have to do with them? Within the energy policy lines of the Government we have been working for many years with actions aimed at reducing the energy bill through the promotion of energy saving aid, efficiency aid, in sectors, especially large consumers, and that both in the industrial sector, but also in the building sector, we are trying to improve. I would also like to comment on measures established in terms of self-consumption, which make it possible to alleviate energy costs in these sectors, both in the private sector and in the public sector, and which have been implemented for a long time. Therefore, I insist, it is not to claim today, it is to act for a long time. And I would like to remind you of course, since I took office as a counselor, the first time in 2013, in September 2013 I met with the Ministry of Industry, with Minister José Manuel Soria, and recently with a lot of intermediary actions, with Minister Reyes Maroto. But in 2013 I was meeting with the ministry and working on a series of measures, making proposals, I don't know where you were, and from 2013 until now I haven't seen you anywhere. Competitiveness in industry, of course, revolves around all these kinds of actions and energy policy must be linked to industrial policy, because otherwise we will not do it properly. And the cost differential, you were referring to a lot of data, they are true, but above all those costs are based on regulated costs, on structural costs, and the regulated costs are where we should focus, because we have made a lot of well-valued proposals, worked with the sector and, I insist, you could also have done it where you have to do it and I hope you will also accompany us. We have also implemented regulatory changes in 2018 in the state, with the aim that a discrimination that was taking place in our electrical toll industry would also be mitigated with a positive effect of EUR 100 million for the Basque industry. What did you vote for? Therefore, in addition to the crisis resulting from the pandemic, which makes costs at this time, as I said, internationally in a high position, there are a number of elements and regulations in the state, such as the Statute of Electro-Intensive Consumers, the Sustainability Fund of the Electrical System, the new tariff calendar, in short, a number of regulatory aspects that do not meet the expectations of the industry and which we have to try to modify. They are clearly insufficient for our industry, they mean a decline in their competitiveness. And last March 3rd we met again with the Electro-Intensive industry of this country to resubmit to the ministry a series of actions according to their needs, both in terms of energy costs and CO2 emissions. It is a non-new debate in which we will always be present and, of course, a debate that is taking place between two ministries, the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Energy, the MITECO, where, of course, there are times when positions are not the same and we have an obligation to make proposals and improve the situation of our industry. And I sincerely hope, Mr Gil, that you too, even if it is a little late, will join these actions, these demands and the work, as you said, in Madrid, which is where it belongs. From the Basque Government the actions in terms of energy efficiency and aid to industry, forgiveness, building, and of course those actions to the most disadvantaged people, we have been putting them in place for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Gil, your word is yours. [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ...starting for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, I really appreciate your explanations. And I am aware of your concern about the subject. Your answer is that the matter is short-term. No, it's not short-term. It's the first argument you've used. The second is that we have no competence. And I remembered a phrase that said a mayor of his party, that said, "What does not belong to me, does not belong to me." And then you tell me about the approved regulations? But please don't tell me about the 2018 regulations when the rise has occurred in recent months. Of course we are doing what we have to do in the Congress of Deputies. And, if you look at what we have presented there, you will see that you are absolutely in this line. But how is it possible for us to stay here for so long, working on the subject, to be the least powerful (...) we have installed? Look, the price of electricity is a theme in the you can do quite more. I don't think what you're doing is enough. And I believe that in the current situation it is clear that it reflects it. And it is a matter that is significantly curbing the true development of Euskadi. But this is the true development of Euskadi. Not the "raca-raca" identity of "quite yourself, to put me on", which is increasingly interested in fewer people. It slows down the true development of Euskadi, because our companies have real difficulties in competing for the high energy cost, because our self-employed are having a hard time getting there by the end of the month, because our citizens have difficulties paying for education, dentistry or heating. And, therefore, here it is not a question of seeing who does more, but of each one assuming his or her responsibilities. And you have it right now. It is the responsibility of the Government and, moreover, you have a double responsibility, because you, as a party, are partners in the Government of Spain. In that regard, I believe it is worthwhile for us all to shoulder our responsibilities and, in particular, for the Basque Government to make a special effort, and to think of a package of effective urgent measures to help resolve the current situation, which is specifically high, which is specifically worrying. That we are certainly not worth the measures we have before us, because they are not enough. We have a very high short-term problem that's going to keep up. It's a recent problem, but it's going to stay the same. Therefore, count on our cooperation in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u57	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mrs. Tapia. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u58	...of teachers are ending me, because it turns out I haven't been able to explain myself very well. I have said that the current situation has worsened the situation. But, of course, it is not new and the measures we have been working on. I insist, of course, since I am in December 2012, we have been putting different measures on the table, working on them, implementing actions, improving, insisting, energy efficiency, helping the most disadvantaged people... These are already implemented actions. Not because of the conjuncture. Secondly, actions and competences. Indeed, competition in regulatory matters is not in Euskadi. He's in the state. However, I insist, we have put in place different measures. And we continue to establish them, to help the industrial sector, of course, from the beginning, and to help the most disadvantaged people. And we will see what happens now with the new prices that have been established as a result of the new regulation. We'll see what happens and the impact it has. And the performances always adapted to the situation. And I told you, the meeting we had on March 3 with the electro-intensive companies, of course, was to analyze the energy issue and to analyze the impact of CO 2 - No, no, no, It has now been two months, but I think it is timely enough for us to take it into account. Concrete measures to improve the situation. And, of course, what happened in 2018, that 100 million, also impacts today. Don't deny it to me, because the tolls had to be paid then and they had to be paid now. So, on the move. As for renewables, I would love for you to agree with your group partner, Mrs Larrea, because, lately, I think we have seen him in this gallery, he does not speak, precisely, in favour of the implementation of those wind farms and those photovoltaic parks, which at the moment would help us greatly improve our capacity and energy mix in Euskadi. I hope that, from now on, you will support it once you have agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. 9th point on the subject list: "The question is, that Carmelo Barroja, the Popular-Chaul-Ciudados team of the Basques made to the Chief of Economy and Environmental Department of Economics, about 201919 and 2020 Aran Industries." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u60	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Okay, Mrs. Tapia, let's talk about Alava and Sprilur's investments. Well, Sprilur's lack of investment. As we all know, Sprilur S.A. is part of the SPRI group, attached to his department. And it was formed in 95, with the aim of contributing to the impulse and improvement of the business fabric of the three historical territories, in order to promote, precisely, job creation and industrial competitiveness. A historical territory, Álava, suffers from Sprilur's lack of effort in recent years. See, the investments made by Sprilur S.A. in the territory of Álava were 5,000 euros in 2019, and zero euros in 2020, out of a total of 26.5 million euros. That is, 0.02% Alava, 40.73 % Bizkaia, 59.24 % Gipuzkoa. In the light of the investments of Sprilur, Counsellor, the financial years 2019 and 2020, and for the social purpose, in addition to Sprilur, what is the reason, Counsellor, for the clamorous lack of investments in the historical territory of Álava by Sprilur S.A. for the promotion of industrial and entrepreneurial activity in recent years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u61	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u62	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Barrio, first of all, to point out that this Administration when it acts in any of the historical territories, it acts not only through its tools linked to Sprilur, but also through others associated with technological parks, and even to... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ...historical territories, it acts not only through its tools linked to Sprilur, but through other associated to technological parks, and even other measures as can happen in Álava through Gilsa. Therefore, Sprilur acts like this, but we also look for soil in the Technological Park of Araba, and all the actions associated with Jundiz or Arasur we also have to consider as part of the search for soil and the attraction of companies in the industrial field. If we are referring directly to Sprilur, first of all, we should point out why this has happened. We have a very relevant project or two projects in Álava, associated with the VIAP project in Foronda, and Subillabide, in Iruña de Oca, which would be united by the land movement needs they require and which, of course, have been quite stopped as a result of the need for a report from the Hydrographic Confederation so that we could take action on flood issues. Once we have those reports in August 2020, the City of Gasteiz, which is responsible, should take the decision to implement this hydraulic solution with the corresponding urbanization process. Since the groups supporting the Government do not have a sufficient majority, I look forward to their collaboration so that this great performance can be carried out with a million-dollar investment and that, of course, it would allow us to have sufficient industrial soil, which is also associated with Sprilur's investments, both in Foronda and in Subillabide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u64	Yeah. Thank you, President. Mrs. Tapia, you must accept that something has failed. Something fat has failed in the management of Sprilur SA, in its management in relation to the objectives that Sprilur has in relation to industrial dynamism, because in addition to what tells me, there are more needs, Mrs Tapia, there are more needs. Frankly, this is the story of discrimination, of an incorrect and unbalanced view of how to invest in business stimulus in the Basque Country, a subject that this group is concerned about, of course, because it has to be and it has to ask for it, but, among others, the Chamber of Commerce of Álava when it denounces that the lack of large plots of slow administrative processing limits logistics in Álava, which also consider it a priority to anticipate the supply of land to respond urgently to the needs of companies. The House is alert to the problems that prevent companies from taking off, and some of these problems connect with Sprilur's possibilities, which we recall, has as its objective and function to contribute to the improvement and impulse of the business fabric in Álava and that objective, counselor, has failed in these years because we have referred to the years 2019 and 2020 with that 0.02% of Sprilur's investments. But I have to tell you that in 2017 and 2018, i.e. the previous two years, investments have also been clamorous. In this sense, it was 0.06% of Sprilur's investments in Alava, i.e. 0.06%. That doesn't make sense, Mrs Tapia, it doesn't make strategic sense four years of 0 investment in Alava, it can't be. And there are many needs and it is quite clear that that is the issue you must answer for. And, in addition, the investments prior to those years have also been well below the specific and economic weight of Álava in relation to the company and industry and the economy. This is a comparative aggravation and we need an industrial policy that will also bet on Álava and we have long lacked it from the Basque Government because of the trend in time. Something's wrong here, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u65	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u66	I would like to reiterate, Mr Barrio, that in Álava there is also a need for land and large plots for action and Sprilur has different possibilities for action with the corresponding budget. And I repeat, in Foronda, in Subillabide and also in Legutio. It happens that, in addition, as you know, besides having a budget and acquiring the plots and acquiring the soil in order to be able to start the actions, municipal authorizations are also required. And there you have a lot to say and a lot to do. Therefore, Sprilur and the Basque Government are willing to activate these three investments, of course, which are millionaires, but municipal action is required is not only Sprilur's will. But, nevertheless, I do want to point out that in addition the actions carried out in Arasur, logistics, in Jundiz, also logistics, with their corresponding railway infrastructure have been, will be and will continue to be important. And we also need to be able to expand the Parque Tecnológico de Araba, the Parque Tecnológico de Miñano, in order to absorb different performances. Once again we require municipal authorization and you have so much to say. Therefore, Sprilur, technological parks and all those societies in which we participate, ready to collaborate, work and implement these actions. We demand that, of course, from the municipal side can be actions that are well considered in order to carry them out. This is everyone's job, not just the investments that Sprilur can make. And I would like to remind you that in addition to these investments, for example, the entire building in Azucarera has been re-launched for necessary actions within the scope of Vitoria-Gasteiz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, Gustavo Angulo Garcia Together, Podemos-To the parliamentary members of the Economics, to the Chief Department of Economy and Environmental, to the island of Honoria." Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u68	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Counselor. The Hondalea project is in the mouth of many neighbors and neighbors of Donostia. On the one hand, they are interested in the artistic project, but are also concerned about the management that the City Council does. And it is that justify a work with an extra cost that goes beyond 5 million euros, it needs all the marketing capacity of the Basque Government. Counselor Tapia, on the website of Hondalea her department appears as a collaborator of this project. We do not know whether they have put funds or what such collaboration is in place, but what we do know is that the work has generated many debates because of the environmental impacts and the cost that it is entailing. That is why, from our parliamentary group... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... but what we do know is that the work has generated many debates because of the environmental impacts and the extra cost it is assuming. Therefore, from our parliamentary group we would like to know your opinion, what opinion the Basque Government deserves as a collaborator of the Hondalea project the economic and environmental impacts that this work is having. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u69	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u70	Thank you, Mrs. President. Mr. Angulo, the Department of Economic Development, Sustainability and the Environment has participated and contributed economically exclusively in the event held at the Aquarium of Donostia-San Sebastián prior to the official inauguration last Saturday of the sculpture of Cristina Iglesias in the lighthouse of the island of Santa Clara. The event was entitled The Rocky Coast, Geology, Ecology and Sculpture. It took place on 3 and 4 June and was included in the Donostia Sustainability Forum organized by the Summer Courses of UPV-EHU and the BBVA Foundation. The participation in this symposium on Art and Environment was reduced to a contribution of 15,000 euros, which was executed by our Public Society of Environmental Management, IHOBE. Our participation in these days is also supported by our strong support for these types of projects, where environmental respect is valued and at the same time a space is created for reflection on our relationship with nature. That has been our concrete action in support of the Hondalea project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u72	Thank you very much, counselor. For in our opinion there are many aspects that should at least be investigated. Counselor Tapia, Hondalea is an example of the cultural policy of the PNV, a policy based on megaworks with builders, related consultants, and that with this they carry a juicy contracts and a few benefits. Hondalea is a expensive work and is a work with serious environmental deficiencies. And not only does our parliamentary group say this, but also the Secretariat and the Donosti City Council Intervention Department have repeatedly warned of the illegality of contractors and of the continuing increases in construction costs, which have been auctioned for 1.5 million and are in excess of 5 million. So much so that from the LAB union of the City of Donosti they have taken this case to the Prosecutor's Office to investigate the most likely irregularities of the recruitment process. The irregularities that occur from the same beginning since no resolution has yet been found that will award LKS in 2018 the drafting of the project and the direction of the work. It was a contract that was awarded directly as a minor contract, and like this one, there have been several minor contracts and negotiated without publicity. Opaque and overly used procedures by the PNV, as was observed yesterday in the scandal of the consultants fined by the CNMC. We are very drawn to the attention that the current director of the Department of Projects and Works of the Town Hall of Donostia, Alfonso Vázquez, would have worked with the construction company Moyua. We don't know if it's random, but what we're clear is we have to investigate it. Also how the builder Moyua has been increasing the costs of the work and LKS, as director of the work, has been accepting them. How it is possible that in such a short period of time the bids will have to be remade, how it is possible that from a million to five million and no one will be surprised. And of course, I will not forget the environmental part of this intervention, the little respect that has been shown for the protected space, does not speak in favour of the environmental protection policies or the government's assets. The impact that massification of the island can have on tourism has already been a matter that has been denounced by environmental associations, and for their part, they have called for a plan to manage the work and we hope that it will be carried out quite quickly. For all these causes, Elkarrekin Podemos and United Left has requested an audit at the Donosti City Hall to investigate this contract with so many shadows and so many costs. The Audit Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office will tell us how serious these irregularities are and whether it is necessary to ask for some kind of responsibility for this waste of public money. Thank you very much, Madam President, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u73	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u74	Angulo jauna, zuk diozun bezala, I think the place where this debate has to take place is precisely in the City Hall of Donostia, because for a moment I thought we were constituted in Municipal Corporation, but I don't think so. You asked me what our role as department was, and I think I've told you. We believe that the sculpture of Cristina Iglesias has a perfect fit in the training and environmental awareness policies promoted by our department and in this sense we have collaborated with this symposium that has been held. And I insist, we believe that in this case culture, geology and biology have been treated in an expert and international manner. That is our contribution, and of course what we want to work for, I insist, awareness-raising. From there, everything concerning the work and others that you have mentioned here, I think there is no place here and it is in the City Hall of Donostia where you have to treat it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "Interregation, Leire Pinedo Bustamante EHGGEE and the Chief of the Ogals, about the alignment of the Euscal Autonomy tax in Europe and the new strategy of the world." Your word is Mrs. Pindo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u76	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning chief. The tax is a great importance of politics, and thus we have insisted on in this House from the Basque Country. The tax is in the centre of public politics, because the tax policy is the chief source of development of public politics. And that's why we've given him a lot of importance from the Basque Country and we're giving him a political tax. Because we are clear to the public administration to answer well enough that we must strengthen the hinges of our society, the public resources, and consequently that the designs of the policy of the tax are extremely important. Over the past years there has been a general race in the region of tax policy that has lived under different nations, the ghost of always delocation... [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... in the course of the last years there has been a general race of down-country where different nations have lived, always shaking the ghost of dislocation. The international policy and management attorneys designed in favor of economic powers have increased the tax escape and the attorney-general engineering. Governments have pushed the attorneys to the measure of financial capital and of the great transnational companies, and they've done what they haven't seen about the prosecutors of Paradise. And sadly, our ogases are not out of this race. That's where the U.S. holidays, the reforms of societate taxes, and the disappearance of the tax duties on the estate for several years. The panedemies which we have been living in this last year have been exposed to so many previous difficulties and privations, and even to the political tax-masters, the chief physician. The contribution of great companies is gradually reduced by the taxation of societate, the legal solutions designed by favors of the richest and the largest revenues, the great hole in which the prosecutors of Paradise assembles the taxes of all other nations, or the long way to improve the collection of tax collectors, besides the improvement of tax collectors. With this challenge to develop social and worthy states, it is a privilege to have sufficient means to secure the basic rights of all the people, a long task which we have always said, education, sanity, care, apartment, etc., and to operate our production in the defence of the network, of course, research and development, preparation, active industry, and so on. For this purpose, economic resources ought to be adapted to the public sector to build more just and more cohesion, to develop social policies, to strengthen public expense, and to make investments which are socially profitable. I said socially profitable, yes. Because we know there's a lot of investments and a lot of stuff going on, and you're doing funk, you know, investments that cost a lot. And as long as there's no change in the tax system, the investments to be paid by the next generation. It is, therefore, fundamental to the preference of these investments and public debates about strategic projects, even here in the legislature. And therefore the dispute about the sources of money to pay them is essential. The payment of all the investments which are to be made in the course of the following years cannot be abandoned to the future generations. And for this purpose, changes must be made in the tax system, and the collection of taxes must be increased. Besides, we can't forget it, and you've even made it this morning, that the first of the prosecutions will not last forever, so we must always use the possibility of debts. There are many and very varied reasons that have led to an increasingly dwindling collection of taxes from corporate profits or capital accumulation. And, on the other hand, it has not stopped raising the burden of collection from labour income or indirect taxes such as VAT, in which, as everyone knows, we all pay equally from our economic situation. Many voices have long been calling for a change in fiscal policy, in pursuit of equity, progressiveness and the social divide. A fiscal and tax policy sufficient to fuel the public policies that are so necessary to meet the social, economic or ecological challenges that we must face in this new century. We have been working to dismantle myths that neoliberalism has imposed as mantras in recent years and that this has been proved, myths and not realities, because lowering taxes does not increase tax collection; because reducing taxes on companies does not automatically bring more employment. And those myths of neoliberalism what they have assumed is that the collection of the estates is plagued by tax evasion; they have meant a brutal fall in the contribution of the big corporations, and a more than irrelevant contribution of the big fortunes. And in the face of this, a pandemic has unfortunately had to arrive so that some of the voices of the establishment change their tone and we hear them talking about a covid rate, the strengthening of taxes such as assets and estates, or a global minimum tax on large corporations. We have heard, for example, from the IMF, recommending that advanced economies put a stop to fiscal erosion in recent years through reforms in corporate taxation, income, wealth, inheritance and also eliminating fiscal loopholes. We have heard you propose a tax on the excess profits of companies and on higher incomes so that those, who have been better off during the pandemic, because there have been those who have been far better, make a special tax contribution. Meanwhile, the G7 has also recently reached an agreement on international taxation, whose main measure, among many others, is to apply a global minimum tax to large corporations. And, on the other hand, recently also the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament have reached a principle of agreement on the directive which will oblige multinationals operating on the Community market to publish their activity data in each state, in each Member State of the Union, in other words, in the countries or jurisdictions considered by Brussels to be tax havens. And the Government of the State also announces the change of tax system in the event of its recovery and resilence. to adapt to the dominion. The other is, by strengthening the green taxes, by increasing the pressure of the state to approach the surrounding countries, or by fighting against fraud. We have published several proposals from the House of Basques in order to improve the tax system for the last few years, to renew the tax system, and to re-establish the new century's roots. And we work in this, chief physician, ready to advance on that road in our institutions; ready to promote discussions, and to make progress by association, is a political tax in our country. We know, in fact, that there are change in the scope of taxation, and that we have long since announced the development of the tax system and the change of direction, so many other economic and political actors have been added to us... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... those who have proclaimed change have increased so many economic and political actors, which hitherto had different readings. As long as we're watching these things in Europe and the world class, when it gets more and more obvious to take measures for tax policy, we've heard very little about the Moors and Feds. News, Mr. Subaz, you said it's no time to raise taxes, because that slows the economic activity, among other things. We've been listening for years after the evaluation of the last tax changes, if it were necessary you'd make other changes of taxes. But when it was time to step forward about it, make proclamations for the removal of the tax on the estate, only ('... they had, and lately nothing, silence, because it's no time to talk about tax policy. We don't forget, chief physician, that at the beginning of the previous legislation, you yourself said that the deep form of taxation was necessary in our country, that there was room for the public prosecutor's pressure to increase, and that there was room to pay more for enpresies. But before that we all remember the position of the principal powers, proclaiming simple adjustments. And I'm afraid that's the way it's been. Now that you've maintained the tax system for years, refusing to make any changes, and that we've got another crisis on us, you're still on the bunk without moving. When the means are increased, and society has to challenge giants. As I have said, when the winds, the changes around the policy of taxes, are increasing in the climate of Europe and of the world, and are giving deep discussions about the taxes. So, chief physician, what measures will y'all take to train with the new strategy that's going on in the world and Europe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u78	President andrea. Mrs. Pindo, I agree that the public prosecutor is very important, because it is necessary to take public policies. And I, over there, completely agree with you. That's a big point, isn't it? What I'd say? But what you've asked for is that message from Europe or the attention of the movement of Europe. ), well, what our opinion is, or what we are doing. In fact, Mrs. Pindo, the state of the tax has changed terribly among the nations during the last few years, but the change in the panoma is not a innovation, it is not even a new strategy. The economic crisis in the past decade, the changes made to complex structure by the societae, and the changes made from ancient productions to services and new commercial structures, and the mutations which have occurred in the digital economy and the like, have made a deep change of common principles in the collections of tax collectors between states. The pandemic, and its impact on the economy, has been more than a new revulsive to all these reflections and actions. And the political change in the United States that, in turn, led to a change of position in the country in various subjects that were being analyzed, and before the Trump era, the United States was also supporting it. Therefore, this process of analysis and reflection had already begun long before the pandemic. Already in 2013, the G20 leaders announced a tremendously ambitious comprehensive action plan, developed in the OECD field, aimed at re-establishing confidence in the international tax system and ensuring that business profits are taxed where value-generating economic activities take place, a basic premise that prevails in the field of current international taxation and that we support. We support him with conviction. The G20 plan, on erosion of tax bases and transfer to profits, BEPS, was based on three fundamental pillars: strengthening the coherence of corporate tax rules at the international level, realigning taxation with real economic activity to ensure that profits are recognized where substantial income-generating activity is carried out, and improving transparency, so that information on multinationals and their taxation could be shared among different administrations. In October 2015, the BEPS project was formally accepted, and today the project is composed of 139 countries. I'm not afraid to tell you that it's part of the 7PS International Attorneyhood. Of course, even the Basque Prosecutor. For For Forum Ogages have established their regulations, as far as the regulations against the deviations of the tribute which have been adopted by the European Union, and the rules of administration, and for the exchange of information, the new standards, have introduced new examples of information into the regulations of each country. In the field of the digital economy, OECD and the European Union also identified their VAT amendment proposals, as digitisation facilitates the ability of businesses and consumers to acquire intangible services and goods from suppliers anywhere in the world. In this respect, the VAT Directive was amended to incorporate the single window system for the provision of services or sales of distance goods to consumers from July 21, in no way, the one known as OSS VAT. All of the measures taken have already been incorporated into the Basque tax legislation, except for the OSS VAT Directive, which will be in the coming weeks. The incorporation of this new special regime requires various additional agreements and some adaptations in the... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... which will be in the next few weeks. The incorporation of this new special regime requires various additional agreements and some adjustments to the Economic Concert, so we continue to work towards reaching an agreement in the Joint Committee on the Concert. In the context of the Green Pact, the committee will put forward proposals to ensure that taxation supports the European Union's goal of achieving climate neutrality by 2050, seeking a fairer, greener and more consistent taxation with the modern economy. And, in this regard, an amendment to the Energy Tax Directive and the carbon border adjustment mechanism is expected in the context of the "Fit for 55" package and the European Green Pact. Also this May's communication on business taxation for the 21st century to promote a strong, efficient and fair business taxation system in the European Union, which aims to establish a short- and long-term strategy to support Europe's recovery from the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic and to ensure that there is sufficient public revenue in the coming years. Many proposals and much work ahead. Work that from our Basque institutions we will continue through our participation in ECOFIN's working groups. Among all these work that we follow up on, it seems that there is finally one that is going to get the consensus needed to move forward, and it is the taxation of the digital economy in the OECD field. In October last year, the international community renewed its commitment to address the fiscal challenges arising from the digitization of the BEPS Action Plan economy in line with the two-pillar approach. Pillar one aims to establish new rules on where taxes should be paid, rules on the nexus, and a totally new way of sharing tax powers between countries, where the objective is to ensure that multinational companies with a strong digital or consumer-oriented component pay taxes in the place where they operate sustainably and meaningfully even if they do not have a physical presence. And pillar two of the project would set a global minimum tax. And so, last week, an innovative agreement was reached by the G7 finance ministers on the essential elements of international tax reform designed to address the tax challenges of digitization and also of the globalization of the economy. But there is still a lot of work to be done. As the signatories of the agreement stated, this decision gives a valuable impetus to future discussions between the 139 countries and jurisdictions of the inclusive framework of the OECD G20 on BEPS, in which we demand... we continue to seek a final agreement to ensure that multinational companies pay everywhere the fair share of their taxes. From the Basque Government we share with these international bodies that the way these multinationals act, especially in the technological field, is neither politically nor economically sustainable and that they must therefore tax their corresponding share of taxes where they generate value. Also in Euskadi of course. That is how we defend it, we will defend it, also for the digital tax, which is still to be agreed. That governments have chosen coordination rather than competition in the taxation of large multinationals, we believe it is good and we applaud it. In conclusion, however, we must not deny the difficulties facing Euskadi in not being able to participate directly in these areas of decision-making. And you know him perfectly well, Mrs. Pinedo. The tax and financial regime of the Economic Concert is an integral tax system, not only known, but also endorsed by the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union as a fiscal system of financial autonomy to establish and regulate its own tax system in accordance with the provisions of the Economic Concert. However, and despite the fact that the 2010 agreement of the Joint Economic Concert Commission on the participation of Basque institutions in the ECOFIN working group was an advance in our presence in international tax forums – and we really go to those forums and try to take advantage of it – this is not enough and we cannot, of course, accommodate this situation. The Basque institutions must also be able to participate in those other international forums, such as the OECD, in which fiscal debate has intensified in recent years. We cannot be outside the tax debate and we must be in all institutions, wherever and wherever they are, that tax issues are dealt with. That is also what we have put forward in the Joint Committee on Concertation. And we hope that little by little we will get those longings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u79	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u80	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Sailburua jauna, I'll start at the end. You know that in that war of (let's participate?) in other international forums he knows he can count on EH Bildu, because we have told him on different occasions and have defended him many times. But going back to my interrogation, he's done magic to me, he's done magic to me, yes. You have referred to the taxation of large corporations, which is true that I mentioned it in my question, but not a word about income, wealth, successions, elimination of fiscal loopholes, etc. Because that's also on the table. The covid fee is on the table, counselor. And you know it as well as I do. And not only because the International Monetary Fund has put it on it, it has put it on it. And I hoped that you could listen to the International Monetary Fund because you did not listen to the proposal that Euskal Herria Bildu put on the table in this House. But you know that's on the table. Because knowing that the subject of the big corporations, the (elusion?) from the tax bases, I know it's coming from behind. It is obviously an open debate in the OECD many years ago. And that the pandemic has accelerated a little bit, because, well, that's because the force hangs at the end. And then, because in the end it has accelerated. But the reality is that the debate on fiscal policy is much broader than the taxation of large... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... So that's because the force hangs at the end. And then, because in the end it has accelerated. But the reality is that the debate on fiscal policy is much broader than the taxation of large corporations, Mr. Counsellor. And there, beyond participating in international debates, which is true that we should participate, that is also where Basque institutions have much to say. You have a lot to say, because it cannot be that we are in the situation in which we are, that you are announcing big investments in the coming years and that we are all going to have the current tax system collect what it collects and debt. What's useful? Of course it is. We've talked about it many times, you and I, useful, but we have to control it. And what we need here is to talk about tax policy, tax policy today sooner rather than later. Because if we leave the debate on fiscal policy again for when better times come, because with this fate of history never better times come and you never feel you talk about fiscal policy. You have also told me about the taxation of the digital economy, which is true, but you are still waiting. I don't know if they're waiting for others to act and then settle taxes, or what, because we could do things here too, and you know it, counselor. And a tax has recently been denied in this House, when it might even be possible in this House to have made a new tax. I insist, Mr. Counsellor, the big corporations, right; that progress is being made internationally, right; that it is not enough, too; that there are many open debates about that minimum, that if it should be superior, of course it should be superior. And we advocate that, as the newly created European Tax Observatory also advocates, you too know your reports. But there are other taxes, counselor, the taxes that are on the day-to-day of citizenship, even the covid rate that I was commenting on. It is that they have refused to make a special tax, which even the IMF – may God have to talk about the IMF like that – has put it on the table, counselor. So, if we don't want to have more means, for what you initially said we agreed, is it basic to have means to make public policies? Let's have the means, let's have the means, counselor. We can do this, and let us not expect alone and exclusively these great international decisions, which are obviously important and will bring us new avenues of collection, and we are going to be and we have to be there, because if we are an advanced country, we have to be there. I have no doubt about that, but until that happens, it seems to be going on because it has been discussing many things in the OECD for many years now, there are other issues, other taxes that need to be dealt with, they need to be touched, and there is a lot of open debate about it. And I insist, we have said it many times, counselor. We are open, open to sit and talk and dialogue, but what cannot be done is that when they come wrong again let's say: there is no more, no more can be done. It can't be, we have to take advantage of the opportunities, we have to take advantage of the opportunities. And right now, there is a worldwide open debate on taxes. There is a worldwide open debate on taxes, far beyond that of large corporations and the digital issue, on all taxation. And that debate would have to move it here and we would have to act now because it may be late.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u82	Mrs Pinedo, you have asked me about the new European and global strategy for the tax system. And honestly, I think that international reflection is absolutely important. I believe that international momentum, in many of the tax measures at least, is absolutely priority and fundamental. And this international review, which is going to force the review in all areas, in all the states, and in all those areas where there is competence of taxation, and in Euskadi too, I believe that it will mark a path for us and will force us to reflect, because there will be new guidelines, there will be new measures, decisions that will even change: to modify the economic concert and see in this new fiscal reality how we will have to redefine, if we have to do so, the concert, and how we will have to act because our estates are (...) and collect everything they have to collect in an integral way in that sense. But, on repeated occasions, over the past year, I have shown my position on changing the tax system at this time. I said it's not the time. I think it is a position, I think it cannot be regarded as neoliberal to say that, at this time, instead of raising taxes, we are increasing investment and public spending by using public debt. I think that, apart from being the most Keynesian, it seems to me to be the most right thing to do. But, in any case, that reflection and the need for reflection that we are already doing in relation to the reform of 2014 and 2018, in addition, in the context of this reflection at European level and at world level I would say, I believe that it must continue to be done precisely in order to achieve in the end a tax system that allows us, as you said at the beginning, that it is very important to finance the public policies that as a country we want to develop over the next few years. After these examinations, the just tax changes will come. They'll come in time. It has long been believed that in the OCDE and the BPS activity experience, a minimum general rate for multinational profits was necessary. However, the G-7 financial ministers, who have made a deal about the global tax on the Societate, are still very much to be done. Ireland, Cyprus, or Hungary, have also been opposed to the minimum tax rate in the interior of Brussels meetings. It's not easy, it's not easy. And while we value the news as very positive, there are still many details that will need to be remembered. And each of those details that you agree on, will have an implication on the outland haciendas and the Basque tax system that we will have to analyze in order to agree with the State on the best formula for adapting the basic assumptions agreed at international level to our own tax system. It is still early to know the impact that such an announcement may have on the tax system outside, and it is unlikely that the OECD will have a definitive agreement ready in the very short term due to the fact that the... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... to know the impact that such an announcement may have on the outside tax system, and it is unlikely that the OECD will have a definitive agreement ready in the very short term, due to the need to finalize the technical details of any agreement. Even after this deadline, the European Commission will need months to prepare a proposal for a directive formally proposing the minimum corporate tax rate described by the G-7 countries. And there, in this Community sphere, translate the OECD soft law into the legal obligation, which will require added doses of negotiation and agreement, as any tax legislation needs the unanimous agreement of all governments of the European Union to be adopted. But you don't have to be discouraged. We have to go this way. And we will have to push, we will have to tell the European Union to speed up the procedures. Therefore, peace of mind, but an active peace of mind. The Basque institutions will continue to work, analyse and evaluate all these issues. Therefore, I insist, quiet, but active. The Basque institutions, as I said, will continue to work, evaluating, considering the tax approaches shared by the different international bodies, such as the OECD, such as the European Commission, (...) or the International Monetary Fund. And what is agreed in these areas has no doubt that it will be incorporated into our tax system with the adaptations, as I said, that are lacking because we are fully aligned with the reflection that is taking place in the tax field at international level. It is not acceptable, it is not acceptable that tax havens exist. But that which seems so obvious and which has been so evident always seems that some are realizing it now. Well, welcome to reflection. I always insist, with a premise, that it is taxed where value is generated. In our case, as it is by law and respecting the integrity of the letter and spirit of the economic concert, it is within this framework that this reflection and these modifications must be carried out, because the economic concert is the master key of our self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u83	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. fourteen points in theme list: "Interfection, Amania Martín Greyle, member of the Misto Corps for the head of Education, a visit to the Biktime Center of Terrorism to the Memorial Education Department of Education." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Counselor, good morning. The first June of this year, as is well known to all, the Memorial for Victims of Terrorism was inaugurated. I want to begin this inquiry with the words of Florencio Domínguez, director of the centre. The Memorial seeks, precisely, that young people who have not met him may have information and direct knowledge of what terrorism has meant. We would like them to come with their teachers, to visit him, to know him, and to reflect on how they saw him before they had information, and how they see him now. That's one of the memorial's goals. I will not abound in what has already been discussed so many times here. I am not going to abound in the suffering of the victims or in the profoundly unfair way that it is to have people sitting here who defend violence and who, in addition, refuse to condemn violence, who applaud the arrivals of murderers when they leave jails, the so-called ongi etorris. They are a real problem for coexistence, because they also highlight everything that the rest of us denounce as serious and harmful: the use of violence to achieve political objectives. Working for peace and coexistence means, there can be no doubt, that there is a story of winners and losers. Winners, the Civil Guard and the rule of law that gave us victory, the defeat of ETA, and a group that has exercised more terror throughout Europe. It is no coincidence that the violence of ETA is the protagonist of the Memorial. And on the same line we are not surprised that Bildu and the radical left are against the museum. He points them directly and says: "You have lost. You're guilty." And they are afraid, a natural fear of the fact that it is possible for citizens if they incorporate what is seen there, if they understand what these gentlemen did to people like Miguel Ángel Blanco or like Ortega Lara, it is very possible that they see them as what they are: the direct descendants of ETA, their product, their bleaching. Following this line of argument, we do not understand the role of the other side of nationalism, that of PNV and Eusko Alkartasuna, who play the game, avoiding at all costs the unmasking of Mr Otegi's party. So far they take him that even Eusko Alkartasuna, with the voice a week ago, distancing himself from Bildu's failure to condemn the aggressions of the young PP. Therefore, we must at all costs prevent these gentlemen from passing away from rositas, from being seen as politicians that are homologable to the rest. They're not. That is why we feel real terror when we read the report, the memory of a country, studies on the knowledge of the history of ETA in Spain. It shows that 63% of Spaniards and 40% of young people are no longer talking about ETA terrorism. And in addition, seven out of every 10 citizens do not know who Antonio Ortega Lara is, who also starred in the longest kidnapping perpetrated by ETA. And only 38% knows he's been locked up for over a year. How can we avoid this? From Vox we take Mr Florencio Dominguez's word seriously. We must turn the memorial into the axis on which the document Udaberri 2024, Plan of Co-existence, Human Rights and Diversity should revolve. In particular, as far as paragraph 8 is concerned: training, raising awareness and empowering citizens to activate their commitment to human rights. Mr Bildarratz, your department is the protagonist of this document, in paragraph 8.2 when it comes to training, education and building a conscious youth. And I quote what the document says: "Training, educating, equipping skills are necessary preconditions to generate dynamics of social transformation to advance." We do not start from scratch, we start from a solid base built by a wide range of initiatives and programmes that respond to the objective. Some of the programmes are mentioned here, such as the Gizalegez agreement, the Adi Adian programme, which consists of direct testimonies of ETA victims in schools, young people in the 4th ESO, the Heregun teaching unit, or programmes for the prevention of violence in young people. I'm not going in which one I like best and which one I like least. I'm not going to comment on how many of those plans homologize all the violence as if it were the same... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... violence in young people. I'm not going in which one I like best and which one I like least. I will not comment on how in many of these plans all violence is homologated as if it were the same; today is not the day for it. But after the report I have commented on the forgetfulness of ETA by young people, we all have a clear question: their programmes do not work. The part of the evaluation should be reviewed, because what is clear is that the acquisition of civic and social competence has not been such. They pass through the educational system without knowing what has happened in the recent history of Spain, in that of our land. And we also talk about the history of this century, and they don't know it. I remind you, Mr. Bildarratz, of the luck that you have placed the aforementioned memorial in Vitoria, and it is lucky for the famous pyramid of Egar Dale's knowledge. It is a very useful resource in pedagogy, and shows that at two weeks people remember 5% of what they hear, 10% of what they read, 20% of what they see, 30% of what they see and hear, 50% of what they say and discuss, 75% of what they do and 90% of what they say and do. The fact is that so far we have been left with passive activity, on which the majority of activities aimed at the memory of terrorism in the educational system have been based. The arrival of the memorial changes everything. And it changes everything because for the first time young people can be in Ortega Lara's zule, that is, they can move on to an active activity. An activity that is remembered much more and that directly affects the soul of young people, the soul of whom all visits it. The testimonies of the visitors who have come also bear witness to this. Therefore, since Vox we ask you not to renounce this fundamental resource for our society, fundamental for all of us. We cannot let this opportunity pass, and for this we must use all the resources at our disposal to incorporate this visit as obligatory in the ESO and Bachiller. There can be only one Basque student who does not pass at any time of his formation through the memorial. We cannot leave the schools at the dawn, and it must be the Department itself that does and organizes such action. He must be the coordinator. For these reasons we have questioned you today, so we want to listen to you. The last sociometers have shown one issue, they have made it clear that Basque citizens do not understand terrorism right now, the issue of terrorism; something we see very worrying. This is a historical rigour that our young people will acquire when they see the bombs, the bars, the weapons, all the artifacts that a group of people, ETA, used to exercise terror and practice murder and selective extortion. Surely, that could also serve to make you see and understand the aberrant ongitorris. The shame of sitting here with people who proudly claim to be the heirs of that. Rigor and stories, Mr. Bildarratz. There's no better medicine to send terrorists and fellows to their place, to the landfill of history.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u85	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u86	Mr. President of the Parliament, chiefs, members of the legislature, good days. Mrs Martínnez. As the lehendakari pointed out on the day of the inauguration of the Memorial of Victims of Terrorism on June 1, this centre joins the general memory itinerary of Euskadi, which already has the Museum of Peace Gernika 1937, the Centre for Educational Resources of Human Rights Eskura, in Aiete, and the Institute of Memory, Coexistence and Human Rights, Gogora, its exhibition space, and the recent incorporation of the space Martxoak 3 Memoriagunea de Vitoria-Gasteiz. The inauguration of this new centre on which you ask is the completion of the mandate contained in article 57 of Law 29/2011 of 22 September on the Recognition and Comprehensive Protection of Victims of Terrorism, which provided for the creation of a centre for the memory of the victims of terrorism based in Euskadi. The above-mentioned article states that the objective of this centre will be – and I read literally – "to preserve and disseminate the democratic and ethical values embodied in the victims of terrorism. Build the collective memory of the victims and raise awareness among the population as a whole for the defence of freedom and human rights and against terrorism." In Euskadi, our Government, the Department of Education has been working more than two legislatures to promote empathy and solidarity with victims and to consolidate the culture of human rights. I would like to highlight some relevant milestones, in which you have mentioned one of them. On October 1, 2013, practically all Basque educational agents signed the Gizalegez Agreement at an event at the Kursaal Palace in Donostia. Its content summarizes a socio-educational commitment established on four bases of universal education in human rights and in education for coexistence. First: to live together is to accept that our perspectives are always incomplete. The educational experience of limitation prevents dogmatism and promotes dialogue and non-violence. Secondly, to live together is to learn to promote opportunities between difficulties. The educational experience of positive value prevents fatalism and promotes pluralism. Three: co-operation is to take our ethical responsibility in every situation. The instructive experience of ethical consciousness precedes manicism and fosters sympathy and solidarity. And four: a partnership is to understand the highest value of the respect for human dignity... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... He has them. And four, partnership is this: to understand the highest value of the respect of human dignity. The educational experience of human dignity precedes violence, and inspires a respect for human rights. To acquire a preventive culture of peace and violence and destructive conflict requires that the working of society, politics, and institutions should agree on certain principles. The potentiality of these principles may be developed in freedom and variety of ways. This was the case with the human law. To this end the Gizalegez agreement was oriented and has been shaped through the Elkarrekin Bonds program. An experience of public-social collaboration to promote training, dynamism and advice initiatives in human rights and peace education projects. Solidarity with victims, coexistence and the peaceful resolution of conflicts. The direct result of this program is that since 2014 a total of 394 initiatives have been developed in which 295 educational centers and 53 social entities have collaborated. Gizalegez Agreement, Elkarrekin Programme are not isolated initiatives. The reflection on recent memory has an undoubted ethical dimension but, from the educational point of view, it also has undoubted historical dimension that must have its own reflection. One of the objectives of the initiative is to contribute to the students' understanding of a particularly convulsive and violent period in the recent history of Euskadi. It also seeks to provide resources for students to ask themselves and seek answers on how and why the events of the past occurred and how they influence the present. In addition, with a comprehensive and inclusive vision, our Government has recently presented the Udaverri 2024 Plan, which is now in the process of contrasting and receiving contributions. Its purpose is to form, its purpose is to educate, and its purpose is to equip capacities, all of them preconditions necessary to generate dynamics of social transformation in order to advance towards sustainable human development. We start from a solid foundation built by a wide range of initiatives and programmes that respond to the shared goal of training and empowerment for social transformation. From our Government, from the Department of Education, we have also been working for a long time on learning about human dignity, coexistence and empathy through an experience of listening to victims' testimonies through the Adi-Adian educational module. The treatment of education for peace, the injustice of violence, solidarity with victims and the pedagogical value of their testimony has been a concern in the Basque educational system for years. The Adi-Adian programme and the rest of the educational projects developed in collaboration with the Deputy Councillor for Human Rights, Co-existence and Cooperation have enabled more than 25,000 young people to listen live to the testimonies of victims and to visit exhibitions that critically address the violence and terrorism that we have experienced over the past decades in Euskadi. This experience has shown us that active listening to victims' testimonies has a high pedagogical value. We have seen that listening to the victims, the people who have suffered from the unreasonance of terrorism, empathizing with them, putting ourselves in their place, contributes decisively to strengthening the culture of human rights. The commitment to him never again. Therefore, and in response to your question, it is our objective to continue to promote the listening of the testimonies of victims by the high school, baccalaureate and university students, in collaboration with the Vice Councillor for Human Rights, Memory and Cooperation. We will continue to do so through initiatives that will make this experience possible for students from different areas. Mrs Martínez, I was wondering how we are going to deal with this issue in the Department of Education, to which you refer, and I answer it very carefully and with great respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u87	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u88	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr Bildarratz, for the explanations. Thank you very much. In the words of Raúl López Romo, the head of the Education and Exhibition area of the center seeks to honor the victims, defend the democratic values of the rule of law, report on decades of terrorism and move the public out knowing more, feeling empathy, and adding, "that's why it's located in the Basque Country. It is here that there is still a part of the radicalised population that sees with good eyes attacks of the past, and that is where any trace of justification can be intervened." You will understand that it is not just a question of Vox, that it is not we who say that this is a problem in our region. I refer to what Mr Raúl López Romo said. We believe that we must eradicate that ideology by fighting with everything, and although education is the evidently slowest path, it is the one that takes the longest to bear fruit, we believe it is the most stable of them all. We therefore abound and insist on the need for you from the Government to make it possible for everyone to know the dangers of an ideology that have caused so much pain and suffering to our region. You have spoken of many plans of this government to which I have already referred... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...the possibility of knowing the dangers of an ideology that have caused so much pain and suffering to our region. You have spoken of many plans of this government, which I have already referred to in my first speech, because I have reviewed them all. What we have suffered is violence that has caused more than 200,000 people to have to leave their land, which has resulted in more than 800 deaths and that many of the crimes are still unresolved, knowing that ETA prisoners have orders not to report, that is, not to cooperate. I want to abound in the pyramid of knowledge I've mentioned before. So far we have been working on passive activities to work on the issue of terrorism, and it is apparent that it has not been all the interesting things that should have worked out. The vast majority of students do not incorporate the information. The presence of the Memorial seeks to abound in the active part, in the insertion of young people, for example, into the zule of Ortega Lara, who imagine what it is to spend 532 days inside that cuchitril, I can assure you that this experience is one of those that remain forever, of which they do not forget. And I'm telling you because Ortega Lara has told us in the first person, as you very well know. If on the contrary, what we want is to abound in memory, recover our past and truly promote critical thinking, then it is necessary as much as eating to come to this place, organize everything so that the young Basques who are enrolled in one of the compulsory levels must pass through there, listen to the testimonies and become aware of what not so long ago were our streets. Of course, this will allow them to understand a phenomenon that happens to us with some of the young Vox affiliates, because many of them see how in our autonomy we have to go with caution, even some refuse to take Spanish flags because of the consequences that the fact can have, while not so far, in Logroño himself, see that the reality is another very different, that you can carry the flag of Spain with all the naturality of the world without anyone attacking you, without being pointed out, something is happening. Our society is sick, Mr Bildarratz, in this sense, seriously ill because of ultranationalism, right, but also because of the terror exerted by ETA, which elevates all this to the umpteenth power. There is no democratic normality, we do not have the same tools as one party or another. For those who defend breaking Spain there is full freedom, for those who defend it the condemnation of ostracism. In Vox we believe that there is some possibility of cure, that we can give some treatment so that in the future we live in a more just and more supportive region. What do we prescribe for our young people? I tell them right now: visit the Memorial. And that is all we ask, Mr. Bildarratz, of the Department of Education, to incorporate it into your education plans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u89	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u90	Martínez andrea, as I indicated in my previous speech, our aim is to continue to promote the listening of victims' testimonies by the secondary, vocational training, baccalaureate and university students in collaboration with the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy. And why, and why, because it is the responsibility of this department to promote and/or channel various initiatives, programs and materials to make them available to educational institutions, who will ultimately be the ones who value their suitability and their adequacy to the curriculum framework in general or to the centre projects in particular. Thus, in all areas and disciplines, and especially in areas such as the one we are dealing with, that is, those related to the radical delegitimization of the unreasonance of violence and terrorism, the dignity of victims and the consolidation of the culture of human rights. Mrs Martínez, as I have already indicated, the centre that is now beginning its course culminates in the 2011 mandate of the Act on the Recognition and Comprehensive Protection of Victims of Terrorism. This centre is formed under the form of a foundation of the State public sector and its governing body is the patronage in which this Government is represented. It is therefore appropriate to articulate, through this body, the activities and initiatives which start from it with an inclusive character within the framework of the long journey that Euskadi takes in the delegitimization of terrorism. I would like to highlight at this point the work carried out by the Basque Council for the Participation of Victims of Terrorism since its creation in 2008. Law 4/2008 on the Recognition and Reparation of Victims of Terrorism of Euskadi created this council with the aim of channelling the participation of victims of terrorism in all matters affecting them, and proposing to public administrations the implementation of concrete policies in this field. A council in which both civil society is widely represented, through the different associations of victims of terrorism, foundations and pacifist associations. A council in which the Department of Education participates, a council that recently, last March, has handed over to our lehendakari a document approved unanimously, unanimously on the steps to be taken in the field of recognition and reparation. As I say to you, a consensus document between different associations of victims and the Basque institutions proposing concrete measures to be developed in the area of recognition and reparation for victims of terrorism, as well as in order to improve and make more efficient the contribution of these victims, both in terms of education and in the processes of critical reflection on the past, and in general, in the dialogue between different people. A document which is the fruit of three years of work within the council itself and contains a specific point, point two specifically, of the educational contribution of the victims. Mrs Martínez, all the initiatives we are capable of developing in the area of the delegitimization of terrorism add up. In Euskadi we have a long history in this field and the efforts of all the agents... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ...terrorism adds up. In Euskadi we have a long history in this area, and the efforts of all agents and institutions have never been, never are, never will be enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u91	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The 15th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the River Iritea St. EHGGD to the chairman of Education, about the commitment made to his pedagogical project by the Home School." Mr. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u92	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, chief of the Union, good day. Well, it's not the first time we've got to talk about it. Two years ago, in September 2018, by an unlawful proposal, this legislature made several requests to the Board of Education; And on the 22nd of March this year, at the Board of Education, I asked you questions about this matter. And today would be the way it would be. What solution will the Board of Education give to the next year's apprenticeship in order to guarantee the future of his project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u93	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u94	Mr. Irriart, as you have already mentioned, went to the Board of Education on March 22, as I told you in your verbal reply, we positively appreciate the work the schools do. In the recent decades of consolidators of new projects have been completed, and thus become pre-eminent agents for modification, and a model for education, and for society. And, specifically, we appreciate the work the National School has done. During the course of school, we have retained unstoppable relations, systematically, with teams of school managers. And with this school, specifically, we've kept a special relationship. The Assistant Chief of Education was at school last week. He had a staff meeting with the school manager and the vice squad, and there was a technical team on the main news site. In all of them, the state and special wants of the educational project in that school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u95	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mr. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u96	Thank you. "On the day they were going to kill him, Santiago Nasar rose at five and a half in the morning to wait for the ship on which the bishop arrived. He had dreamed that he was going through a fig tree, where a tender rain fell, and for a moment he was happy in the dream. But when he woke up, he felt completely sprinkled with bird shit." Hau da, Gabriel García Márquezen Chronicle of an announced death. Eta Antzuolan gertatu zaiguna chronic of an announced death. It's been nine years since they went to the Board of Education to report the situation to the People of Apola. It's nine years since they said, "The next year." The project was set to work that all the teachers would retire, that this situation would be slowly given. And the next year is the year when all the teachers who started that project will be retired. Next year, there won't be anyone running the project at school. Not just that. Teachers who are more than five years old, teachers who are at school five years old, will only be three out of 30. All of us, who are in education, know the importance of the fixedness of the cloisters. We all know that individuals are in the centre of the centre to carry forward the pedagogical projects, which guarantee that they are teachers. The chromebooks are helpful slate digital, but they're people. And the fixedness of people is groups. On September 1st, Professors of Apeola, it is to begin this half-new clause from zero, to teach pedagogical projects, and to do a great deal of work. This way, our thanks. We're grateful to these engaged workers and step by step to the Parent Society because they're still working on this project. But it is difficult to begin from scratch, September, September. And we know you were there last week, and you're going to offer half a teacher more, and you're engaged to make a plan. And we know there are difficulties because there are workers' rights, but it's been nine years since the Board of Education was aware of this situation. It's been nine years since the Board of Education has turned this situation around. And today is the day that has not yet a solution. And it'll be September, September day, when all these teachers will be retired. There are two left unconfirmed: one does not begin, and the other is just about to retire. And when I say so. It'll be three teachers who take him to school for more than five years, and half a cloister is renewed every year. This isn't just a hearing problem. In many schools, many of the EAE public schools are concerned with mobileness in solving projects to strengthen them. The solutions must have been given long ago, we're late. I understand, and I want to think that you're engaged to this department yourself, but we're late. Let's solve this structure problem, the stability of the planet. And further than the work of Apologies, let us give them the instruments to assure their future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u97	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u98	[[Microphone Off spoke]] ...as I have to say, our department is engaged to continue the educational project. That tracker's guaranteed. As I explained on the 22nd of March, this year of the year of the end, the school has been a 246 student and a teacher of 26,4, that is to say, 9,3 for a teacher. The next year's learning school will have 228 students and teacher 25.2, that is to say, a teacher of 9. So last year's ratio will be better. Of these 25 teachers, they are officials of 15 careers, and they have their permanent job at school. As I said in my last act, it must be observed that measures have been applied since the beginning of learning to ensure the stability of the intermediate teachers, those received at the third point of the agreement signed on the 14th of May 2018. That's why all the other teachers will be allowed to remain attached to the school by means of the process of stabilizing the workers on the 5th of July. The consequence is that nine provisional professors will be stabilized, nine. I also want to remark that in the unsatisfied jobs of that college where it's been made this year, it's been expressed among the characters... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... I desire, likewise, that in the imperfect employments of that college, which have been made this year's removal, it has been observed among the characters that the candidates were addressed to the education project of this school for a modern and consolidated school. Also, considering the reaction between the retreat of professors and the generation that is being continued, the new professors who will be in the place of teachers who will retire will be able to stabilize their position in the next process. Our bet on quality reviews is clearly obvious. I only ask the board of directors for two things. One, commitment and shared responsibility. This means that among all of us, let us convey to the cloisters an illusion, a positive and active attitude, and so that these modern and exemplary projects, which develop in these centres, may be extended to other schools on our network, for the benefit of our education system. I mean, it's really important to bring in an illusion, a positive attitude and an actionr to increase the quality of our schools. And, as you have mentioned, Mr. Irritart, first of all, all the professors and professionals who work all year long, to the nation school on the left, and to the school of a thousand Apiques. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u99	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The sixteenth theme in the theme list: "Interrection, Unai Fernandez de Betoño Saenz de Lacuesta EH Collectorda, member of the United States, made for Plantion, Housing, and Commander of the Transportal Department, in order that all the municipal councils of the Basque Autonomy should be executed in order to declare the trial of empty houses." Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is an initiative. for defending.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u100	Yes, thank you, good noon all. I think it's a good news, because we really believe that this decree was necessary at the EH Collectan to develop the Housing Act of 2015 once in a while. I'm saying that because you've been publishing this decree for six years, and we think it's been lost six years in this sense. But, well, it's better late than ever. And I think we have to look at it from now on, or we must study the development of this decree, the actual development of this decree, the manner in which it is established in practice, and how it is carried forward. In this sense, we have discussed the case with a major concern, for the execution of the decree will be in a great measure in the hands of the townships, and in the hands of the townships. The will of the councils is therefore of great importance that this decree may be safely directed. And in that sense, we'd like to know, and that's our main question, to see what everybody in town will do, that all the councils of the EAE should really receive the decree and the declaration of the vacant housing, so that they can reach that important matter. For we must not forget that in 2015, when the Housing was approved by the Law, there had been some resistance, and that two parties were very clear against the law: Popular Party and Eural Jelt Party. And in this sense we are not so much concerned with the Popular party, as there are only two townships in the EAE right now, if I am not mistaken: Navaridas and Mañueta, both in Abar Errioxa. But there are 120 townships in EAJ's hands. And, clarro, when we remember what kind of expressions had been made in its time, such as Josu Erko, the present vicerel, said the Housing Act would produce the effect of a world-wide calling, which they made as catastrophist expressions of this kind, now it really bothers us to be in the power of this decree. So we would like to know from this point of view whether PSE had actually committed any commitment to the government he had received to carry on the process of a declaration of vacant housing. In that sense, we know that if the councils don't apply, the decree can also be applied by subsidy, so that he can subsidyly declare the empty housing. But we'd like you to know if the department has resources to carry on. If, for instance, it does not apply to the townships of the EAE, unless it will apply this decree, what means you have to arrive at it at this very moment. I think the question is important too. We'd like you to find out when the two years will apply. If I am not mistaken, have you said that the decree is published in the official ivory, that the next day the councils may be able to invade the expedition, and then declare those houses which have been vacant for the last two years? Well, we'd like to find out. And it seems very important to us what we consider an empty apartment, because we think you're making quite a few exceptions, and we care about that too. We've heard in the press that there's about 15,000 units in EAE. That's the figure and that's what you're talking about in the head of the figures that's going on. I understand that the government doesn't want to alarm people, but I don't think there's any need to be advocative. And these 15,000 houses are not all empty houses. If we see them you give them to me yourself... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... Nor is it necessary to anesthethethetic. And these 15,000 houses are not all empty houses. If we see the data you're giving us EAE, there's only 540,000 units available right now. It's just that you've been doing a few exams or a few moves. Well, the first thing is that it's a bit troubling... Or we find it disturbing that a subject is connected with the first disturbance. You have removed 20,000 units from the list, or this decree will not affect them because they are necessarily offered to the sale or rent. And we believe that the fulfillment of decree or decree ought to be observed that these housing should really be on the market price. It is very easy for a landowner to sell or rent at a deorbitant price, and so escape the decree. Then we think it's important to see how the department will set that market vote. I know it's hard. And we do not care so much for the deorbitative prices, but for those which are above the market, which are slightly higher. We believe that there may also be a subterfugium to escape, a decree to coalescify. So there's 20,000 of them removed for those reasons. You also remove 8000 from the amount because they're owned by transfers of transfer, health or work. We think it's a pretty high figure. And if you can explain that a little more in your speech, please. And then you take another eleven thousand, because they haven't been two years in a row to defy you. So we're seeing that numbers are important. And we're looking at 54,000 units, only of those empty houses, that the decree will affect 15,000. So only 25% of the really empty housing units will the decree affect him. That's important to us to say and to think about it. And in this sense, we believe that the organization that gives all these figures, or the role of the Housing In your department, is important. And we think Housinga's data is a bit complicated. They won't be false, but they're through a kitchen job. The only way to see them come down from 2017 to 2019 is, for two years, the total number of empty housing units has been passed from avan 6,400 units, a descent, only 70% to radians for two years. It seems to us there's something strange, or in counting a change of methodology, or we don't know how to read it very well. So, klaro, we can see later that the department has also released a contract in April to examine a lawyer about how housing can be a legal organization of observation. And then we'd like to know what's in your head, as far as that's concerned, because we think it's very connected with the implementation of the decree as well. In the end, we think the observatory is a very important instrument. I'm not criticizing, we need to, but we'd like to see what you've got on your mind as to whether you're trying to create an organization, sterilize its service, or what you've got in mind. We also find it important that the nomination of areas which require the housing, especially when we look at heavy rents. And it worries us, you put two conditions in it. And the first condition is to be named more than 100 persons in the Houseland, or to be named. It is only with this condition that you have taken 75% of the townships of the EAE, 75% of the townships of the EAE. In every small town, you've already taken them from there. There won't be any trouble in the small townships, if I'm not mistaken, and then correct me, please, Chief Arriola. We think that's a bit troubling too. We think it's interesting how 50 euros go up to the survival area. We think it's a compressory or supplementary process, but we think there should be other efficient measures. And honestly, I'm done now, the question is repeated.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u101	Time's up, please. Time's up, your time is up... Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Fernandez de Betoño, as you have rightly said, last Tuesday we approved in the Governing Council the Decree on Uninhabited Housing and Measures to Fulfill the Social Function of Housing. In the presentation of the decree, I commented that the right of citizens to enjoy housing obliges administrations to promote the necessary conditions and the establishment of relevant rules to give effect to that right. In Euskadi we started to walk that way in June 2015, with the adoption of the Housing Act, a pioneering law, which endorses the social role of housing, and establishes a number of mechanisms to make it effective, including the mobilization of uninhabited housing. The law regulates the form of the declaration of uninhabited housing, which may be agreed by the relevant municipality or, failing that, by the competent housing department of the Basque Government, prior to the necessary administrative procedure that includes the hearing of the housing owners... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... in the area of housing of the Basque Government, prior to the necessary administrative procedure including the hearing of the housing holders. It is, therefore, the Housing Act itself which, in its article 56.3, grants the municipalities the power to declare a dwelling as uninhabited in the first instance, and which, failing that, may be carried out by the Basque Government after hearing the respective municipality, as set out in article 10.6 of this decree. As I was telling you, the Uninhabited Housing Decree that we have just approved faithfully follows the spirit and letter that marks the Housing Act. It regulates the administrative procedure for the declaration of an uninhabited dwelling and makes it possible to adopt the measures provided for in the law aimed at ensuring that the dwellings fulfil their social purpose and are intended for their proper housing use. As you are well aware, the decree combines both rental promotion measures and other measures aimed at penalizing the maintenance of unoccupied dwellings unjustifiably with the payment of an annual fee, and even forced rental and expropriation in extreme cases and in areas of accredited demand and need for housing. The way to get here has not been without difficulties. As you said, it has been quite a while between the adoption of the Housing Act in June 2015 and the adoption of this decree. But we must not forget that several chapters of the law were appealed by the government of Mariano Rajoy. Among them, precisely the one referring to uninhabited housing and the formulas to guarantee the social role of housing. And as a result of this appeal, for several years the measures provided for in the law in this case were suspended in a precautionary manner by the Constitutional Court while its ruling was being examined. The ruling in favour of the interests of the Basque Government in most of the issues, also in this case, took place at the end of September 2018. This allowed us to unlock the law itself in matters of enormous importance and allowed us to begin, from that date, the work of drafting the decree in the terms set out in the law itself. It has been two and a half years of intense work, dialogue and consensus-building with the actors involved to try to bring forward the best possible decree, and whose goal, let us not lose sight of, is to mobilize empty housing. You ask me about what we will do to ensure that all the municipalities of the Autonomous Community carry out the process of declaration of empty housing. The decree, like the law, reserves a leading role for the municipalities in the development of the measures envisaged. And it has all the meaning that is so because the city council is the main connoisseur of the municipal reality, both of the situation of the demand for housing between its neighbors and of the problem existing as to the number and characteristics of the uninhabited housing in its municipality. It is therefore logical that the City Council at first instance should take the decision to establish the procedure for the declaration of uninhabited housing in its municipal term. On the other hand, it must be borne in mind that the problem of uninhabited housing does not have to have the same treatment in all municipalities. Our interest, and we understand that that of the municipalities themselves and the agents involved, focuses, above all, on the areas in which there is a real demand for housing. Because the demand for rent in Euskadi is concentrated in urban areas in a very remarkable way and in certain social groups, such as young and collective people with medium and low income levels for whom the market of purchase is inaccessible and even more so that of free housing. In particular, 40% of the general housing demand is grouped around the three Basque capitals and in 28% of the cases in the Basque municipalities between 20,000 and 100,000 inhabitants. In the case of the applicants from Etxebide, this urban concentration is even more acute. Of the 60,743 rental housing applications registered by the Basque Government, 46 per cent do so in the three Basque capitals, while 30 per cent require housing in municipalities between 20,000 and 100,000 inhabitants. This means that a large part of the demand for housing, whether protected or free, is concentrated only in twenty, exactly 19, of the 250 municipalities in Euskadi. The data show, on the one hand, that the need for housing is not homogeneous in all the localities of Euskadi and, on the other hand, that there are less populated areas where there may be uninhabited housing and a scarce or no demand for housing and, therefore, there would be no need for urgent action in the first instance. Priorities must be set and initially focused on the most tense urban areas, in order to be able to act progressively and co-ordinated on other areas. In summary, in response directly to his inquiry, it is in the first instance the municipalities, within the sphere of their local autonomy, which are responsible for taking the measures set out in the decree. Obviously on the part of the Government we are confident that this will be the case, especially in the municipalities where there is tension and there is, well, a dysfunction between the supply of demand and this is something that is also expected by the municipalities in order to be able to intervene. The problem you were commenting on the doubts that the municipalities may have in developing this. Indeed, I believe it is recently approved and we will see how it evolves. I am convinced that where there is tension there will be municipal interest. However, the decree, as you know, that there is also the possibility that the Basque Government will intervene directly if necessary, and in the event that it is. But we are going to give the option, working directly with the municipalities, so that this can be developed on the basis of that inter-institutional collaboration that is essential for such a decree to work. I told him that I am convinced that the problem of housing, both its scarcity and its prices, concerns all... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...characteristics work. I told him that I am convinced that the problem of housing, both its scarcity and its prices, concerns all institutions, and also the municipalities, especially those with a strong demand for housing. And I am convinced that they will implement the measures set out in the decree to mobilize empty housing in their municipality and thus provide a response to the housing needs of neighbors. As it said, in any case, the decree also gives the Government that possibility, that subsidiary work, so that we can from the Executive, in the event of a municipal inaction and when the circumstances of demand and need for housing are accredited, initiate the procedure of declaration of uninhabited housing. And as for the numbers, the calculations made by the Department, especially on the basis of the Basque Housing Observatory, are obviously estimates. They are estimates based on what is the observation of reality, and to the extent that we move from what are the theoretical estimates themselves to put into practice a decree of characteristics, since we will see what is the reality of what is the situation of uninhabited dwellings. The estimated number of 15.134, I believe, of uninhabited dwellings that could be declared on the basis of the Department's data, are empty dwellings that have been uninhabited for more than two years and that there is no just cause, at least theoretical or apparent, for them to be so. But, well, practice is really going to give us what the real picture of the situation is, and we'll see that soon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u103	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u104	He hopes, the chief physician hopes, so that we are doomed to hope, and we shall arrive at that. To sum this decree very briefly, if you have a real intention of carrying on this decree, we shall be at the side of the EH Collect, and we will try to place the records from our townships, or from the towns in the government, as soon as possible, and, well, demand data of consumption, and begin to declare the mere dwellings as soon as possible. And in the townships in which we are in opposition, we will attempt to promote or promote within our powers, in order that they may also be in action? And we expect you to be friends with the pushing or the mussel, and don't let it happen in Madrid, right? At Madrid, at first, he began to tell us that a law would be made to limit the rents, and then we went past to hear that cheap rents will be rewarded by the prosecutors. This same week, in the last few days, we're listening to rumors or threats directly, maybe you can take measures against the law to limit rents in Catalonia. And we worry about the fact that we care about your associates, PSOE, a little bit of Madrid, maybe it's not just his fault, but it's getting the famous housing law out of there. And so you don't see any steps and threats to step back. For the present time, in our time, you voted or voted EH Collect's recommendations for rentage, and we hope that the same thing should not happen in this interesting initiative to mobilize empty houses, and that it really was the foundation of the decree that the purpose should be carried forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u105	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u106	Thank you, President. Mr. Fernandez de Betoño, you haven't started the decree yet. There will be time to balance, everything will come. That this decree leaves no one indifferent is a fact, there is nothing more to see than the expectation he has raised even before its adoption. Now, I'd like to make one thing clear. The objective of this rule is the mobilization of empty housing for unjustified reasons where there is a demand for housing. And the greatest virtue of this decree is that it focuses on the social function of housing and establishes measures to be able to comply with it. But I also tell you that you have neither collective vocation nor expropriation. These measures are instrumental in achieving their ultimate purpose. And, in this sense, we make available to citizens the possibility of incorporating the apartments into the Bizigune social rental program, which guarantees the collection of the monthly rent, or the ASAP intermediation program, so that they can have a return on their property at the same time as it fulfils its social function. It has cost a lot of effort to make up a standard of these characteristics, because it is an advanced, but also weighted standard, it is a pioneer, but also a guarantor. And I don't think I'm wrong if I tell you there's no such standard in Spain. Experiences have been developed in the form of taxes and forced rents on empty housing, but always aimed at properties of large forks and financial institutions. The Euskadi decree is a general rule that affects us all. It is also a measure that does not seek to impose, but rather provides local governments with the necessary mechanisms to ensure that empty housing in their municipalities fulfils the social function entrusted to them by law. The process of processing the Uninhabited Housing Decree has been lengthy, many collectives have been given a voice and have also had the participation of the municipalities through Eudel, which has seen incorporated some of its allegations and suggestions. And the text, too, has been informed by the... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] .... with the participation of the municipalities through Eudel, which has seen incorporated part of their allegations and suggestions, and the text has also been informed by the Commission of Local Governments. It has also been agreed with Eudel to organize a forum in September to inform and resolve the doubts that municipalities may have about this decree. From there we are available to all municipalities, large and small, to assist in the training of their staff and even provide support and assistance teams in terms similar to what we have done during the implementation process of other programs. So any Basque city council that so decides, will have our effective support to launch the process of empty housing declaration. Although, as I have already said, ultimately the Basque Government has the power to act in a subsidiary way where there is need and not by the city council. And when the case comes, if we think we have to, we'll act. On the other hand, there is no uniformity in housing problems in the different geographical areas of Euskadi. There are various situations, varying intensities and even in the same aggregate geographical area there may be, in fact, different tensioning phenomena. Then the Administration's response can't be coffee for everyone. As I have already said, our interest, and we understand that that of the municipalities themselves, focuses on the areas in which there is a real demand for housing. In fact, some municipalities, such as Bilbao, have already sent us by the mouth of their housing councillor, their willingness to start developing the decree. And we hope that the rest of the big cities will follow suit, because I am convinced that those municipalities in which there is a need for housing and an imbalance between supply and demand will have an interest in initiating the process of declaration of empty housing. And here we will be to accompany you on the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u107	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "The question is, that Carmulus Barrius Barroja, the popular Group of the Ciudads, a member of the planetion, Housing and Transport Division, to bury the Gastian railroad." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u108	Yeah. Thank you very much, President. Good morning, again, Counselor, Counselor. Good. Mr Arriola, we asked a few weeks ago about the delay of the High-Speed Train on its arrival in Euskadi, and since then the bad news has not ceased to be missing and the public controversies as well. The underground, at this moment, is a project in the air, now in Vitoria. And, as the Government of Spain has said, that jar of cold water that the government delegate recently threw out and that has aroused a discrepancy, a political public controversy, are being pronounced by different parties responsible for the realization of the railway underground in the capital of Euskadi, coinciding with the arrival of the TAV, that is, coinciding with the arrival of the High Speed Train, as it was established. I can't believe you're stoically assuming that the burial isn't going to take place. Here's the thing. And that is why we ask you what is the political position of the Basque Government in relation to the definitive railway underground of Vitoria-Gasteiz, coinciding with the works of the High Speed Train. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u109	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Carmelo Barrio, this Basque Government and I, as advisor of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport, have always shown our total commitment to the underground integration of the High Speed Train in Vitoria-Gasteiz. In fact, the underground integration in the Alavesa capital is a stake of all the institutions involved in the development of this infrastructure: the Basque Government, the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz, the Foral Diputación de Álava and the Government of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u111	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u112	Yeah. Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Arriola, something is failing because it seems that these changes, these delays, the non-compliance with deadlines, the lack of work in relation to the projects of the High Speed Train in Euskadi are disrupting institutional relations. But we have to say that commitments are commitments in relation to what this important infrastructure has to be. We urge you to pressure the Government of Spain not to delay the burial, to carry it out with the arrival of the High Speed Train, if not, we will not see it, Mr Arriola, you know that. There is a sort of resignation in his attitude with the theme of High Speed upon his arrival in Euskadi and also one, I don't know, seems a clear feeling of surrendering to the impositions and inefficiencies of the Ministry of Development. All this was planned and had already become the agenda of all the committed institutions, the one that you represent, the City of Vitoria, the City of Álava, were on that agenda, and let's not say anything about how this project was installed in the future of Vitoria, in its development as a city. It is a unique opportunity that cannot move on to resignation and oblivion as a regenerating, modernizing project of this city. It is clear that the statements of the delegate of the Government questioning the financing of the project have been cold water. You also spoke a few weeks ago of delay, the municipal government recognizing the lack of concreteness. I think it's time to act, to put seriousness and firmness on the table. Action is necessary, Mr Arriola, from the Government, his Government and his department with other institutions, with the City Council, with the Diputación, to urge the Government of Spain to fulfil its obligations to the city in relation to high speed, to urge the Government of Spain also to a timetable, an economic commitment to guarantee and accelerate the outstanding execution work, resolving immediately the allegations of the informative study... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... an economic commitment to ensure and accelerate the outstanding implementation work, immediately resolving the allegations of the information study paralysed since 2019. And, of course, to urge that the connection of the Basque Y with Pamplona and the Mediterranean Corridor be made from Vitoria, in defense of the interests of the city. There is a need, Mr Arriola, for greater conviction. A new commitment to the VAD, and not this desperate situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u113	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u114	Look, Mr. Barrio, if I'm characterizing myself for something, it's clear. And, from the very moment I took responsibility in the area of Transport, I have demonstrated my commitment to the underground placement of the high-speed train in Vitoria Gasteiz. A commitment that, as I have already commented, is shared with the other institutions involved in this infrastructure, both by local administrations and by the Ministry of Transport. To this end, the Vitoria-Gasteizko Abiadura Handia high speed society was created in its day, of which we are all part. A society that, at its last meeting, held on 10 May, and in which we were present the mayor of Vitoria-Gasteiz, the deputy general of Álava, the secretary of State of Infrastructures of the Government of Spain and myself, we decided to reconcile the drafting of the constructive project of the basement of Vitoria with the analysis of the information study and environmental processing being carried out by the Ministry. And to do so, without waiting for the latter to be approved, indeed, with the aim of trying to shorten deadlines. And we're working on it. This same Tuesday, the Technical Commission of the company has agreed to tender the basic project of the underground in September. So, Mr. Barrio, there is no controversy or controversy on this issue. The Department's bet is clear. As well, and as a Transport Advisor, I have a very clear bet to try to start up the service as soon as possible. And in this regard, comment that the Ministry has announced that the informative study of the high-speed train between Burgos and Vitoria will be approved in an imminent manner. A much awaited news, which places between the end of the 26th and the beginning of the 27th a more than reasonable horizon for the completion of the works of this section. If this were so, and we have the TAV in Júndiz on those dates, at the gates of Vitoria-Gasteiz, don't you think it would make sense to analyze the possibility that the high speed would reach Dato on a provisional basis, while the works of the underground are being carried out? If they're not finished. Wouldn't it be reasonable to articulate a solution so that citizens didn't have to wait any longer, and could travel at high speed while the underground is being executed? I sincerely believe that this is a possibility that must not be underestimated. And this, Mr Barrio, does not mean giving up the underground integration of the railway in Vitoria-Gasteiz or questioning it, because it is the bet that we have made and that we will continue to maintain as a government, with the other Basque administrations concerned and with the Ministry of Transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u115	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 18th point in the subject list: "Interrament, Laura Garrido Knörre Euscular Group-Ciudadan's parliamentary members made to the head of the Medical Department, who have a great dependence and have a great disability, or to put on a vaccinable condition for health reasons." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u116	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, good morning. We ask, or we ask – better said – the Health Adviser about the situation of minors over 12 years of age, with disabilities, large dependents, and in a situation of great vulnerability for health reasons. I do have to say that this is not the first time we have asked about this issue of the major dependents to the Health Adviser, and in particular the last few weeks also about the situation of minor dependents who are not institutionalized and grade III. Well, we all know that, at the national level, different versions of the vaccination strategy have been approved. We have the seventh, if I remember correctly; the last was approved on 11 May, last 11 May 2020. In the first vaccination strategy, the first one that was approved, I say that we have seven, the following were identified as priority groups: the first, the institutionalized dependants, that is, those who are in residential centers; the second level were the first level health care workers, and the third, in the third group, the large non-institutionalized dependents grade III, people living in their homes, in day centres, in occupational centers. They are people who need help in carrying out the most everyday activities of their daily lives, such as eating, dressing, or even moving. And within the fourth group were the over 80s and 90s. We must make it clear that the Basque Government has failed to comply with this vaccination strategy. First, we saw a clear delay in its implementation: slow vaccination of health care workers. And they skipped the bands. They skipped the groups, without any logic, going from one group to another, without having finished the previous one. And, specifically, group three jumped out of the large, uninstitutionalized dependencies. Therefore, we have to remember – as I said – again that the vaccination strategy in these early moments was very messy, it was implemented late, and also the disorder affected the groups' own prioritization, as they were in the strategy, as I have recalled, to move on to vaccination before those over 80-90 years old. For not remembering the episode of the 100-year-olds who were not computed on Osakidetza's radar, jumping, as I say, to the large non-institutionalized dependents. I am going to refer a little bit to the situation of minors who are not institutionalized, because I think it is an issue that has not been addressed with the diligence and attention that this group deserved, prioritizing them on time... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... because I think it is an issue that has not been addressed with the diligence and attention that this group deserved, prioritising them at the time of their vaccination. The situation of these minors is as follows. They're minor with cerebral palsy, with swallowing problems, they can't wear masks. They have an intellectual disability of more than 70%. They have behavioral problems, babe. They're having trouble keeping quarantine. They are children who are constantly moving, they touch everything, and all the time they also take their hands to the face and need help to carry out all the activities of their daily life: eating, going to the bathroom, getting dressed and many more things. I ask this Government, and the Councilwoman in particular, to look at these children and their families for a second. The situation of these children and families is absolutely hopeless because of the inaction of this government in relation to this collective, which is in a situation, as I say, of great vulnerability. They're absolutely dependent children. They are the uninstituted minors over the age of 12 who are in their homes and who need a caregiver, their parents or a caregiver constantly. We have had knowledge – and this is an issue that I have followed, Madam Counsellor, and in that regard I have to tell you that I have comprehensive information – about how these minors are being vaccinated. These minors are being vaccinated... I'm talking about uninstituted minors over 12 years of age, degree of dependency III, because they're calling, they're persistently calling Osakidetza, their health center, they're complaining. And in the face of such despair, some are vaccinated, but this is the exception. There is no general criterion regarding vaccination of this group. As I said, the last vaccination strategy was adopted on 11 May, and it is pointed out in point 6 that once the corresponding authorization for vaccination of children between 12 and 15 years of age, it is proposed to vaccinate persons from 12 years of age with very high risk conditions or persons from 12 years of age in situations of high dependency and those in centres of persons with intellectual disabilities, protected centres and special education centres. That is, these minors were being vaccinated not on a general basis, exceptionally, because they complained, because they called, because they insisted, by pressure. We already have a clear criterion in the National Health Strategy, as I say, in relation to this group, which says that when vaccination is authorized, vaccination is carried out. Well, he's already been vaccinated. Its authorisation was granted by the European Medicines Agency. And it must be said that there is still no criterion on the part of the Basque Government regarding these minors, counselor, unless you have changed (...) this week or as a result of this inquiry, I have the latest news that these minors are still being vaccinated by the pressure they are exerting, by the despair of their parents, by the insistence of the calls. Today I have been told another case this morning, but I know minors who go on the same buses in this situation, that some are vaccinated and some are not vaccinated. That is why, Commissioner, I believe that today, except for, I say, you have changed in the last few hours, because I have knowledge and this information, I believe you have the opportunity in this Parliament to rectify and not continue to defraud thousands of families and the associations behind these families. We're talking about autism associations, cerebral palsy, intellectual disability. I believe that this government already has to take care of this situation. You can't have these families and these children in this situation. I have described it: they are absolutely vulnerable children, who have behavioral difficulties, behavioral ones, who need all kinds of help to do the daily activities, who are a vector of contagion among their own family members, among the children with whom they are, in society itself, because they are children who touch everything, who cannot wear masks. Therefore, counselor, I believe, as I say to you, that it would be good news – not for this group, I can tell you that also, but for the families who are experiencing this dramatic situation – indeed, that you would announce some news about it today. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u117	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u118	Mr. President of the Parliament, Congressmen, good days all of you. Mrs Garrido, you bring together in your question large dependents, people with great disabilities and people who are vulnerable for health reasons. They are concepts that may sound similar but that are not the same. And all the technical documentation that has been generated around the risks of COVID-19 and prioritization in the Vaccination Strategy are very precise using one term or another, because the risk to the covid is not the same; therefore, the prioritization for vaccination neither. These documents do not speak of major disabilities, but of dependence, which is not the same. A person may have a great disability, but not a great dependence, because the social environment, the physical and the technical aids can make him not have a great dependence. Similarly, having a serious disease does not necessarily mean having a greater vulnerability to this virus, depending on the nature of the disease. That is why the Strategy for Vaccination against Covid, a document I recommend for reading and which is prepared by technical staff from health institutions, universities, scientific associations and professional colleges, among others, defines very well who the vulnerable are. It says which vaccine should be given, and when, depending on the prioritization of some groups or others. All the autonomous communities are fulfilling it almost in unison: Interterritorial Council of the National System of... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... of some collectives or others. All the autonomous communities are fulfilling it almost in unison, (?)Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, strategy of vaccination against COVID-19 in Spain; technical working group of vaccination COVID-19 of the presentation, program and registration of vaccinations. May 11, yes, indeed, seventh update, pages 15 and 16 also (...). (?)Group four: persons considered to be major dependents, degree three of dependence, i.e. with needs for intensive support measures that are not currently institutionalized. This group includes those persons considered to be major dependents of grade three according to the Act on Unit of Law 39/2006 of 14 December, those who have applied for recognition and those who have not applied for recognition, are medically accredited for having diseases that require intense support measures to develop their lives, including those institutionalized and also those not institutionalized. Professional caregivers who care for these people with high dependency on their homes could be vaccinated on the same visit as the people they attend, if they have not previously been vaccinated. These people, dependents and professional caregivers, will be vaccinated with messenger RNA, Jansen or (...) vaccines depending on the person's age and availability. At the moment, since the use of the Jansen vaccine has been agreed, because being single-dose it facilitates the vaccination of certain groups, it will prioritize large people dependent on difficult accessibility, those with deep autism and mental illness at high risk of (...) due to their basic pathology. And it explains the condition of great dependence grade three, great dependence, when the person needs help to perform several basic activities of daily life several times a day, and because of his total loss of physical, mental, intellectual or sensory autonomy, he needs the indispensable and continuous support of another person or has general support needs for his personal autonomy. There is no discrimination between adults and minors. Pages 17 and 16 address the issue of increased vulnerability due to disease. And he says: "People with very high risk conditions from 16, 18 years of age, will begin vaccination in parallel with people in group 5 B, people between 70 and 79 years of age, if they are not previously entitled to vaccination by age group." The conditions that have been considered for prioritization are: hematopoietic progenitor transplantation; solid organ transplantation and waiting list for solid organ transplantation; renal replacement treatment, haemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis; oncohematology disease; solid organ cancer in treatment with cytotoxic, metastatic or radiotherapy chemotherapy with tumours of thoracic location at risk of pneumonia; primary immunodeficiencies; HIV infection with less than 200 cells per million, despite effective antiretroviral treatment and undetectable viral load; 40-year-old Down syndrome; cystic fibrosis, added by the Public Health Commission at a later session. According to all the above, all institutionalized and non-institutionalized persons with grade three, or who meet these vulnerability criteria related to the disease, have been vaccinated in Euskadi. It is being vaccinated from 16 years of age and also to all and all its caregivers. The children under 16 have not yet been approved for vaccination by the Public Health Commission. We have an indication of the first study of which vaccine has passed the certification to apply to that group. There is no doubt that at the time of inclusion of this group, at the time when Public Health establishes vaccination for people aged 12, 16, those who have a degree of dependence three or meeting any of the requirements of diseases particularly vulnerable to COVID-19, will be vaccinated by Osakidetza, as has been, I repeat, the previous ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u120	I have to say, Madam Counsellor, that it makes it even worse for me, because then I do not know on what criteria, some criteria will be, that I know young people between 12 and 15 years in this situation who are being vaccinated. So, the decision to immunize children under the age of 12 in 15, large dependents who are not institutionalized, is absolutely arbitrary, because I know, I know, I could pass them names and surnames, I can pass them on because they are cases I know, and they are calling, because I know, they are immunizing them because they are calling, because they are calling, that is the exception. I mean, you tell me you're not authorized, (?That's what I'm going to tell you now that it's not. You've read me what you've been interested in in the latest vaccination strategy. Point 6 clearly states: "Vaccination of adolescents and pre-adolescents". The companies to which reference has been made have submitted to the European Medicines Agency the dossier for authorisation, for authorisation in the age group 12 and 15 years. Once the indication for this age group has been authorized, the following vaccinations are proposed and specific details are given on page 10: persons from 12 years of age with very high risk conditions, and persons from 12 years of age with high dependency status, and those in centres of persons with intellectual disabilities, protected centres and special education centres, which is what I have told you. These people could begin vaccination once the EMA authorized it and the EMA has authorized it, the EMA authorized it last week, counselor. You know that the EMA has authorized vaccination of this group, so in other autonomous communities it is being vaccinated. That's why you guys here in shape... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... You know that the EMA has authorized vaccination of this group, so in other autonomous communities it is being vaccinated. That's why you here, arbitrarily, are immunizing, because you have the cover to do it. The problem is, you don't have a plan. They do not have a clear, general criterion of vaccination to this group of dependent minors who are not institutionalized grade III. They are children, I repeat again, they are children who do not wear masks, who have behavioral problems, who drool, who cannot eat alone, who need help to go to the bathroom, who are very important vectors of contagion. And those kids in Euskadi, except for those exceptions I'm telling you, they're unvaccinated. And the exceptions that have been vaccinated have been call-based and based on showing their continued desperation. And that can't be, Counselor. A government cannot tell me what it is that these children are not being vaccinated, because a criterion has not been established by the National Health Commission, when I know cases, with name and surname, that some are getting vaccinated and others are not getting vaccinated. And those who are vaccinating have already told you why it is. Because they're pushing. And those who are not pressing, properly, seem to be, are not being vaccinated. I tell you, announce, you have the opportunity today to announce, in this rostrum, that this dramatic situation will be rectified. Put yourself in the situation of these families. They're not a few families. And even if they were few families, consider the situation of these families, of these children, of these associations. Put yourself on your skin, counselor, put yourself on your skin. Look at their faces, look at their faces. They are following this plenary, there are many of them being this plenary. Tell them that they are not vaccinated, because they cannot, or tell them that some of them have been vaccinated in an inadequate way, and that they are going to rectify this strategy, this vaccination plan in relation to this group. But tell them something, because they're waiting for you. They're listening to him. Tell them, please, when I come out to this rostrum, some answer, because I think they deserve it. I don't think it's welcome that people in this situation are constantly in the question of what's going to happen, what's not going to happen, why you do, why some don't... I think it is not a receipt, and it is not a serious government to have this attitude and not to have an opinion, as I say, generalised in relation to a collective, that this government should have had a view long ago in relation to this collective. You can't walk like this, jumping around in the woods. Vaccination to some yes, not others. This one, because he's called five times. The other one, as he called two, I still don't cow him... No, Counselor, please say something here and give a solution, which I tell you are waiting for, to these people.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u121	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u122	Mrs Garrido, you and I continuously reproduce the debates, on an ongoing basis. Always because it seems that what I say to you in full or in committee, then you always try to take a step back to the same. Vaccination criteria are what they are. You say I read what I want. And you say what you want, because you say: "Vaccinations have been submitted to the EMA for authorisation. They've been approved." Pfizer is the one who, at the moment, has managed to take the first step to get it implemented. Say that too. And also say that Moderna didn't make it. What I am telling you is that we comply with what is laid down in the vaccination strategy and on the subject of great dependence, especially. And don't tell me we don't have a plan, because you know very well that we have a plan, and that we have carried out that vaccination primarily. That all those institutionalized were vaccinated together with the elderly, in all homes with disabilities and that, then, in addition, all the caregivers of those who were dependent type III also had access, because it was part of our strategy, as it should be. We don't do them any favors. We do justice. And they were all vaccinated as a matter of priority. And people with a degree of disability III and up to II. Yes, and you know it, Mrs. Garrido, that boys and girls between 12 and 16 years old with high dependence grade III or with particularly vulnerable diseases, which are those we already know, because they are there, on the list, and clearly rate it, are also given to be vaccinated at the time when vaccination is established in the group (...) from 12 to 16. They will be priorities, of course they will be priorities. And what the strategy puts forward is that when the vaccination of this group is established, these children have to be considered priority. And we are going to do it, because that part, and you know it well, we have perfectly sorted, identified, because if anything has this country is the luck, not only of having a consolidated health system, but a social system that works cross-cuttingly and that meets all the needs of those particularly vulnerable groups, Mrs Garrido. And that's the message that families have. And that is the message that families know that will be fulfilled, because we always have them present, without having to call us. You will have some exceptional case that has been vaccinated. You'll have some exceptional case. It would also be necessary to review the conditions of that. No, don't signal me, no phone, not a lot. You know you don't. You know well that if something we have prioritized and done well it has been vaccination... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ...knows you don't. You know well that if we have prioritized and done well it has been vaccination of the most at-risk groups, among which were people with a degree of dependence III. I have told you before, regardless of age, for ours they are always priority, but also with all the health guarantees required in this regard. Do not worry about these families, because their children, their daughters, the same way that we have prioritized the main caregivers of all of them, even with children who were not included in the vaccination schedule, will also be vaccinated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u123	Thank you, chief physician. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the members of the Ubeka Ubera Aranz and the members of the KRRRRRS of the Union, "about the intervention of prevention in closed space." Mr. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u124	Thank you very much. Fellows and chief physician of health, by midday by now. We're often talking about how much we can deal with the pandemia, and it looks like we're going to have to keep talking about it while it's working or while it lives with us. Tonight, we'd like to ask you about closed space, and the question is: What size will it take to keep SARS-CoV-2 from infection in the closed space? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u125	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u126	Mr. President of the Parliament, members of the legislature, good morning again. When you say that not only some generic measures have been taken to prevent infection in closed places, but where there is the greatest danger of contagion, you mean you have forgotten, not us, because the health department and the whole government have not forgotten. Quite the opposite. For this question I have reviewed several proposals made by parlamentary activity against the Pandemic EH received in the document 123 measure and proposition. And there, it is true, I have found but a few generic quotations. On the other hand, Esscal institutions, each in its own sphere, have created a number of technical documentations with precise advice and proportion of prevention in closed places. We haven't forgotten.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mr. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u128	They didn't put us in the best places today, chief physician. And, yes, we have talked a great deal about the measures to prevent evil, and on our side, at least as far as the Basque People are from the Union, we are confirmed in the commitment to each other. And in that sense, we'll continue to place the proposals on the table. Because we think we have to deal with the answers, and we're all in business. And because the Administration is not only capable of resisting this whole situation ('... and in this answer we must all take it from our hand, and we have business to do. We are clear that all of them are thus said to be closed space of space, which is the space of the strongest revolutions, i.e. the want of motion in the air leads to strengthen or increase the danger. And in this sense we think there is more to be done. That is to say, we should have had occasion to develop our own task or planning in this space. And in the way of it, or in that sense, like the paths that have been opened in the Navarre, or in other spaces, to place the CO2 meter, or the lines of help in re-establishment of space, would be able to activate, or spread fast test usage. Because it is known that enclosed spaces are spaces of risk, it is known by all and by all. And, therefore, we believe that it is necessary to have a strategy beyond the control of buffers. The CO2 meters, the aids for the improvement of the aeration or the use of rapid tests to make the citizenry tools to advance us in this way the virus, we believe are important. Work on prevention. And, yes, we agree that the most effective is vaccine. We agree that tools and options can be resisted by grafting. But we agree that the insertion hasn't yet reached everyone, and that there are a lot of people who haven't got the vaccine. And summer comes, and though there are no parties in the summer, socialization camps and relations are strengthened, as is natural, and a large portion of the population will at least be held at the same time without vaccination. That's why, and even though we all know that it's better to do these socialization spaces and those relationships out there, if we were to protect insides, we'd go a step ahead. And in that sense, we would like to ask you about these measures here today. We believe, as has been said before, that CO2 measurements can be, or that, with the quickest test, we should be able to face the population of the people in a more efficient or better way, and that we should apply ourselves to the management of the viruss in the world, and to the care of the past, in order that the aphors may be accountable for the past. By such measures, perhaps, we may, without these measures, establish the means, and solve the solution first. Just like that. Today, that. Please confirm the Basque People for Collector's cooperation and the company's hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u129	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u130	Yeah. Look, I thought I heard the holidays from one of them. I think we all know what time we're at, and what they're making up their minds about the rehabilitability of this country. But I will be exact to you in what you say, that we have not considered the measures, nor determined them. The measures of protection agreed on within the LABI, which are directed by the decree of the president, are many of them concerned with closed places: The security distance, content, individual protection and ventilation are connected with both the bars and the restaurants and the interiors of the high places. Membership of attention is connected with protocols, various protocols, all of them to input and interior: precautions related to the preservation of personal protection and of distances in order to prevent people from contacting covida. The very exact protocols that were sent to the legislature in his time... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... measures connected to personal protection and to maintain distances. In his time, very specific protocols were sent to the legislature, the protocols that are being updated. Educational system. Study development protocols, even distance, and recommendations related to the use of shared installs and places. A protocol to work in the sphere of economic activity in front of the industrial coronabirus. It's the rules on the workstations, the protection measures, the ventilation, the planning of more space, the telework. Sociosantary field. We've talked about this a lot. Whether the protocols on the buildings were too sharp or not. Protocols that agree to guarantee the security of people on board. What are they? They describe the arrangement as to how to behave inside the weather, the visit, and the departures of the center in recent versions. I can continue, but I'll end up with another specific protocol. Aerolas. SPARS-CoV-2 Advisions to reduce transmission. Advisions to avoid infection within and outside. I won't determine the contents. As a means of discovery, I shall mention certain formalities. General measures. The content of space tests. To reduce all internal activities in space, which may increase the origin of the Aersololists, such as living physical exercise; to speak aloud, to protect the cry, always use mask at places where other people gather. Fit the mask to the mouth, the nose, and the chin cover. The ventilation of the air to reform. Opportunities for homes and special vehicles. Advisions for public establishments and locals. Natural or mechanical air-locking, bioaerosolations, and ventilating them. Admissions for extra information, which are evaluated by aerosoms to transmit SARS-CoV-2, preventions and recommendations. The Health Department and the Echological Transition and the Ministry of Demographic Challenge. Building and... Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Your time is up. Number twenty-one point in the subject list: "Interregation, you Martíni, together Podemos, a member of the Society of different Nations, made to the Chief of Equality, Justice, and Political Society, concerning the policy of development." Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u132	Eguerdi on, Artolazabal andrea. As we stated in our interpelation, Euskadin's cooperation is a stable and strong policy. But at the same time, what is not enough for us in the presence of the situation, and if we read the established law which is established there. His Government had initiated procedures for the adoption of a new law on cooperation, allegedly on the basis that it had to be updated, that it had to be contextualized on the basis of new challenges, for example also on the basis of new paradigms, which, for example, pointed out in Agenda 2030. In our view, the reform of a law is neither urgent nor necessary because it has not yet been completed to deploy the 2007 law nor, of course, to comply with it. You don't have that much time. And we also think that there are other instruments to adapt the new reality, which in general principles we can agree on, to the instruments of cooperation, could be the master plan, could be the general guidelines adopted in this Parliament and because it has not had a majority or minority political questioning of the current Cooperation Act or there is a social demand to change it, perhaps quite the opposite, to comply with it. But, anyway, we'll be on our side in that process. As you know, we've said this to the Agency director, and we'll share the proposals with the builders and also with the transformive suggestions. It should be remembered that the law that we have now in force, the Law of the year 2007, was the result of a great political consensus and also came to Parliament driven by a great social participation, and led from the space of the political force that I now represent in this House. Some demands, that the 2007 Act are also accompanied by a popular legislative initiative in the same year, such as the Law on the Charter of Justice and Solidarity with the Deprived Countries, which was also adopted and which is in force in our legislation. In this law, rather than in those laws, he had, and even in the ends of these laws, he is sufficiently grafted, as we believe, the description of an unjust economic system, and also the part of his cooperation. All this, as I said, was born of a strong social demand, a historic commitment to the international solidarity of the Basque people. But we must not forget that the cooperation sector translates – and, moreover, these are the figures of the NGO coordinator, who are not all the actors involved in cooperation – that there are more than 40,000 people who are partners of different NGOs; there are more than 17,000 people who are also donors; there are about 4,000 voluntary people in the cooperation sector, 70% of whom are women; there are more than 300 people who are professionally engaged in the cooperation sector, and that at this time in the previous year, 2019, which are the latest consolidated figures, there were more than 700 projects active in the different areas of cooperation; direct development cooperation, 78%, 14% education for social transformation and about 7% for humanitarian action. The figures, which are not absolute, but the nearest figure we can have is more than €70 million earmarked for cooperation in Euskadi in 2019, and that translates into 75% of public funds and 25% of private funds. This was the context of the importance we have in Euskadi for cooperation. And since our political formation we believe that cooperation must be a public policy and must be a social policy, it must have a prominent role for the public and also a priority role for the agents of cooperation, and first and foremost within those agents to the NGOs. This is reflected in the current legislation we have in force and in the various plans of the Basque Cooperation Agency. And from our humble... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... within these agents to the NGODs. This is reflected in the current legislation we have in force and in the various plans of the Basque Cooperation Agency. And, from our humble opinion, it should also be reflected in the new bill. But in addition to these two aspects, cooperation and solidarity, they have part of internal policy, which is policy coherence, as well as external policy, the relations we have with others, with other states and with other realities. We know, as we have said, it is not the complete object of this inquiry, that coherence must also be with the development model itself. And at the moment the current development model, not only in Euskadi, but specifically in Euskadi, is not sustainable. The recent figure says that if all the inhabitants of the planet had our own model of development and consumption, we would need two and a half planets to sustain it. This shows us the size of the challenge we have of transforming the economic and social model and consumption, and also that every year the day on which the planet's biocapacity ends every day is sooner. It is therefore important that if we do the policy of cooperation well, in coherence, we also transform the model of development and the whole of public policies. Nor is it consistent to be exemplary and to have a participation, perhaps humble, because the size of our country is small, but important, in the resolution of conflicts, in the processes of peace and dialogue in which the Basque Government directly and, above all, through agreements and the financing of various initiatives participates, it is not consistent with the fact that we do not comply, the other law of 2017 of the Charter of Solidarity of Depleted Countries, in which the financing of arms production companies that are then destined for countries in conflict, is not developed. That is one of the great tasks we have in Euskadi and that from our political strength we are working hard both here and in other areas to make that reality change as soon as possible. And that will be one of the major issues, the issue of policy coherence, where the body responsible and responsible for mainstreaming policy coherence will also be placed. How to cross-cutting policy coherence is a key challenge. I repeat, it is not enough for a good policy of cooperation to be made if the rest of the policies remain inert from the past. And the same, and to sum up, I can say, with the 2030 Agenda, which has a lot to do with policy coherence. As for the budget, this is always the headline and the star theme, the Basque Law 1/2017 points out in its second additional provision that 0.7% of the budget has to be allocated, well, the objective is that of GDP, but what marks as the real objective is 0.7% of the consolidated budget of the Basque Government in 2012. That, of course, is the year 2021, has not been fulfilled. In 2016 we were at 0.38, in 2020 we are at 0.40. To sum up, Mrs Artolazabal, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we are going to participate in that debate of that bill. We will do so with a very clear request to work with a political and social consensus. We cannot afford to break the consensus on this issue in Euskadi. We do so with the conviction that it does, but cannot give up a primary objective of the Cooperation Act, which is the criticism of the current economic development model and the aspiration to transform it. We will also do so from the strengthening of direct public policy on cooperation on the basis of previous commitments, i.e. policy coherence and the 2030 Agenda. We will if there is a strengthening of the role of DNGOs. We will also do so if it occurs from a strengthening of the work in common with the organizations of the South, which they know, through also the Basque NGOs accompanying them, those who know the context and those who guarantee the success, efficiency and effectiveness of the cooperation projects. We will also do so if we decide, in a comprehensive country pact, what will be the way to cross-cutting policy coherence and the role of the 2030 Agenda. And not to give up, as I said, the main objective of this Agenda, which is to transform the current development model and the current development model. And of course, last but not least, education for social transformation has to move from being a secondary action of cooperation and of the public policy itself of cooperation to being a cross-cutting action, also with a prominent role of the Department of Education, which cannot be stagnant compartments. That's why we interpelation you with these intentions. And that's why we want to know what it's all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u133	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u134	The lady's head. Partners. Good morning, everyone. And I thank you for the intention you have shown in your intervention to share and make the improvements that your group and your training will make in order to achieve a Law on Cooperation that includes all those objectives that, well, we can share for the most part. In 2007, as you said, the Development Cooperation Act was adopted. This law was the subject of deep debate and gave legal protection to more than 20 years of solidarity and Basque cooperation in favour of justice and the development of impoverished peoples. The challenges facing Basque cooperation in 2021 are, however, significantly different from those of 2007. It has been 14 years, Mr Martínez, since the adoption of that law and the world has also changed. It is therefore necessary to transform the tools in order to be able to address new realities. The current challenges have to do with the global crises we face as humanity. And the international cooperation agenda, as you said, is marked by that 2030 Agenda and by the profound changes in the context. The 2030 Agenda has been shaped as a universal agenda that commits rich and poor countries and regions to a task of shared transformation. In this complex and independent context, the lack of justice and freedom, inequality and impoverishment continue to be a reality for... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...shared. In this complex and independent context, the lack of justice and freedom, inequality and impoverishment continue to be a reality for the majority of the world's population. And this inequality particularly affects women and girls. Basque cooperation and solidarity continue to be a fundamental tool for exercising shared responsibility and joining international efforts in the search for alternatives to meet global challenges. In Euskadi we have a solid and long history of cooperation, you have also mentioned it. Expressions of solidarity are as diverse as the agents who promote them. Recognition of the work and effort of Basque cooperation actors is essential, from small associations to specialized NGOs, through universities and research centres, technology centres and Basque administrations. That being the case, decentralized cooperation, like Basque, must take its path of reform in order to live up to the context and join the new framework for development action. The Basque cooperation policy is not intended to replicate the model of State cooperation on a small scale, nor is it merely a funder of the development activities of the specialized agents. The future law of cooperation seeks to deepen this effort, consolidating the conditions necessary for the deployment of a quality public policy, which assumes the international development agenda as its own. Joining this international diary with its best assets-namely, the powers of Euskade, a cooperation and a permanent human development. With the law of future euphoria, the fun is trying to strengthen the main positive aspects of our cooperation, and at the same time to identify the gaps and recal them. Concreteamente, con la futura ley queremos alcanzar una seriese de cuestiones: avanzar una pollítica de cooperación vasca a los desafíos globales actules, la crisis cliciatica, la profundición de ungaincedia, crisis sanitaia, lamicos y transmientos masos la la un justicia de gerica de géno la la transición, entretos. These crisis, our activity and priority, oblige us to think of the strategic mode. Secondly, to strengthen Euskadi's solidarity commitment from our signs of identity. Quality decentralized cooperation, which is based on selfless solidarity, and on an organised and active society. Thirdly, progress towards the consolidation of a new institutional architecture, which improves coherence and co-responsibility among Basque actors in favour of inclusive sustainable human development. Fourth, to expand the base for the mobilization of Euskadi's solidarity resources, promoting active citizenship, a diverse and dynamic sector, specialized NGOs with recognized experience and experience, new social and institutional actors involved, and committed and active administrations. Finally, progress towards a model characterized by policy coherence for sustainable development, allowing the deployment of the new law, from, to, and within the Basque administrations themselves. To achieve these targets, the 2020-2024 Government Program, 105. in commitment, it makes it necessary to make and accept a new law of cooperation for development. This commitment is reflected on a 2021-year-old regulating plan, and EukMunk's will to continue in the process of re-enacting of modern rules. To this end, the consultation and participation phase of various actors for the drafting of the preliminary draft law has begun in March this year. During this phase we have some important elements. First, with the solid and diverse studies and diagnoses that have been carried out in recent years, which show the transformative potential of Basque cooperation but at the same time point to challenges and challenges of politics, its approaches and practices. Special mention deserves the Report on the Law 2007, prepared by Koldo Unceta, retired professor of Applied Economy of the University of the Basque Country and founder of the Hegoa Institute. The IV Master Plan for Development Cooperation 2018-2021 already recognized the need to start a calm reflection on the possibilities of improving a new regulatory framework. These studies invite us to broaden the scope of Basque cooperation and the consolidation of public policy that contributes to a comprehensive and comprehensive development agenda. There are no simple or uniform responses to development challenges. The international agenda calls on us to encourage cooperative responses to the international agenda. Secondly, we also have the dialogue and participation of various actors: with the Basque institutions, and work is already under way at the three levels of the Basque administrations, so that both the local institutions and the Deputies and the Basque Government can actively cooperate in the drafting of this new law. We have the cooperation sector. Different work spaces, meetings, contrasts with specialized NGOsD, the Euskadi NGOD Coordinator, academia and universities, social movements, organizations and societies of the South, and other autonomous communities that have also begun their own processes of reflection on their autonomous laws, among others. We also take into account the participation of the citizenry itself, right?, aware of the diversity of expressions of solidarity in Euskadi and in the countries and territories with which we collaborate. During the months of May and June, what we have done has been to launch two surveys: one aimed specifically at the youth population, who seek to know the concerns of the citizenry regarding the cooperation policy and its proposals for the new Law. And finally, we are also involving expert people, different people... well, people who in the field of cooperation, social action, gender, administrative law, have something to contribute. And finally, we have the key role of the Basque Development Cooperation Council. The main conclusions, the result of the previous dialogues and proposals, will be discussed within the framework of this Council. In conclusion, it must be remarked that international reality and global challenges are becoming more and more distinct than those we have to deal with as interconnected society. The pandemics of COVID-19, and the different influences of this to the weakest populations of the world, are merely an example of the size of the crisis the world has faced... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ...the different influence of the weakest populations in the world is just an example of the size of the crisis the world has faced. Companion is a solid expression of a people, who is engaged with justice and the disappearance of poverty and inequality in the world, and who endeavors to bring in before a terrible desert a small but strong grain of sand. We must not fail in spite of how complex and profound the changes we have to make can be. And it is necessary to recognize the great value of the efforts made so far, and the result of this what we have been making progress. However, recognizing our trajectory, or recognizing it, must not fail to be self-critical and also look beyond it, enhancing a policy of cooperation with capitals, more committed, that seeks the mobilization of sufficient resources and agents, of higher quality, that starts from deep diagnoses and knowledge of the realities of the south with which we collaborate, and able to reflect and learn. The new Basque Cooperation Law, Mr Martínez, aims to address all these challenges and help consolidate a new Basque cooperation policy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr Martínnez, it's yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u136	Well, thank you, chief of department. No, we don't fail. The change, of course, the paradigm change, the change in development is quite complex. Now, focusing on the Law of Cooperation, our... well, on the general lines we can have and on the fundamental spirit of reform and change we can have coincidences, but well, the fundamental challenge is to bring it to the small letter. We are particularly concerned about the small letter of how the great challenge of doing homework is to develop, which is the subject of policy coherence, as I said at the beginning. Nor with political will would it be an easy issue, but it requires great consensus and political impetus in order to develop policy coherence that means that all departments of the Basque Government assume this issue as their own in the day-to-day life of their action. And the same with the agents and the NGODs. We have no problem opening the debate on the participation of social and community actors other than the traditional ones in the NGOD movement. But what we are not prepared to do either, this is a wake-up call to repeat, for example, what has happened in the area of urban regeneration that we will discuss next Thursday, where we have subcontracted Repsol, in this case to its foundation, but well, to Repsol in the end, the development of urban regeneration plans in Euskadi. And therefore, those kinds of social actors who are not, but are private companies, would not have room from our side, or should not, from our point of view, have room for development cooperation policy. And what I've heard from you and what I've heard from the head of the agency isn't going that way, but good. And we also have that concern that has happened in other parts of the world and, therefore, because we have to manifest it and put it on the table at this time. And also with the strengthening of the relationship and role of the social agents of the south. I forgot in the first intervention, also from this pandemic we can learn a lot from what is done in other realities. For example, a colleague insisted on the issue of the public-community care system that also realities that are supported by the Basque Agency for Cooperation are developing, and that we could learn a lot from these debates, that also that from her department they are also managed, that we have tried and that will be promoted in the coming months in Euskadi on the model of care and the model also, for example, of residences. I therefore reiterate that in the letter, in the spirit and in the headlines we can agree. There's a coincidence. It is also reiterated from the NGODs, but there are also a number of commitments that we do want to keep on top of the table. And for us – and with this I end – fundamental is the budgetary commitment. The best Basque Law of Cooperation, the new Basque Law of Cooperation agreed and with the rest of the social and political actors, is of no value to us if it does not have a budgetary commitment that we know will be fulfilled. The 07, therefore, is irrevocable, but it is irrevocable as long as it had to have completed 2012 and we have a duty with that law, which is legislation exactly in the same... of the same legal value as any other legislation adopted in Euskadi and therefore has to be complied with. We will table a motion to debate, obviously, whenever possible. I imagine it's around summer. And we hope that this will also be the beginning of an attempt to reach broad consensus among the various parliamentary groups in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u137	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u138	I sincerely appreciate Mr Martínez's words to us. I believe that cooperation policies are important and relevant policies, and consensus, including unanimity, would be important when it comes to designing and adopting them, right? I believe that we do have strong reasons to address this new Law on Cooperation, that we also have good members with the past that has been established since 2007, and that in addition the will of this Government and of this Councilwoman is that we want to do so among all: among all the institutions, among all the NGOs, among the entities, among the agents and among the people. Because, in addition, we also have to count on that active participation of the citizenry, and above all I would also like to have the agreement of the groups in this House. As I explained in my first speech, participation is one of our signs of identity. By the turn of the summer what is the ordinary law will be opened, but until then we still have a lot of work to do. I am convinced, as I was saying, that we have these limbs to agree on a new law, as we did in 2007, and that it provides legal protection for a strengthened Basque policy of cooperation. We do not renounce to achieve a greater parliamentary consensus than that obtained by the law promoted during the mandate of the... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... providing legal protection for a strengthened Basque cooperation policy. We do not renounce to achieve a greater parliamentary consensus than that obtained by the law promoted during the mandate of the lehendakari Ibarretxe. We would like to go far beyond those 40 favorable votes that then had the current law, because we believe that we have an opportunity to achieve it. The new law will culminate and must meet two key objectives. The first is to be a State and international focal point for decentralised cooperation. And, secondly, contribute with its best resources and capabilities to the shared goal of making a world fairer, more humane and more sustainable. And why do we now want to address the drafting of this law? Because there are positive conditions and sufficient grounds to be able to do so. And we have to seize the opportunity. First, because there is a new international paradigm for addressing these global challenges. Secondly, in the context of cooperation, because a process has already been initiated in the European Union itself and in the other institutions, to carry forward this reflection. I believe that we have a history of more than 30 years of cooperation and solidarity which allows us, on the one hand, to strengthen those central aspects of Basque cooperation, but also to identify and restore some shortcomings, which also has them. And we have an interinstitutional political situation in favour of the drafting of this new regulation. Some of the results of the report mentioned by Professor Koldo Unceta explain very clearly why this change of law has to be made. Firstly, because it does not meet the global challenges of the moment, and it has limited approaches to policy coherence for development. Also, in the face of these changes in the international scene, it is necessary that in that commitment against poverty and social justice or sustainability we have to have a perspective that goes far beyond the transfer of funds. Reciprocal and sustained action is required as well as collaborative and accompanying processes that require funding. And I believe that the law of 2007 promotes a demand model, based primarily on the financing of social organizations and limiting the active participation of administrations and other non-specialized agents of society. And that's what we need to analyze, too. The current law does not capture the potential of decentralized cooperation. I believe that the current law contains a questionable and confusing distinction between typologies, modalities and instruments of cooperation. The current law also sets out a definition of sectoral priorities, both sectoral and geographical, which I believe are more appropriate to planning than to inclusion in a law. And I believe that the current law gives little relevance to what can be accountability, transparency, evaluation. I sincerely believe that we have an opportunity, that I think we have to take advantage of it, that, in addition, in those surveys, which I told you earlier, we care about quantitative results, but above all qualitative ones. And the majority answers given by people are significant. And what they say is that most of the people who have participated in this survey consider it necessary or very necessary to change the current Cooperation Act. I therefore trust that we can reach an agreement with you, Mr Martínez, with other parliamentary groups in the House, in the area of cooperation and in other areas, so that we can reach future agreements that are important to Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Second point on the subject list: "The question is, that Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, a member of the Basque Groups of Popula-Ciudadans, made to the chief assembly of equality, of justice, and of the Policies of society, has been begun in order to improve the state of the Basque courts." Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Artolazabal, Mrs. Beatriz. When does the Basque Government intend to conclude the many times announced process of modernising the administration of justice in Euskadi?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u141	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Lady Artola generous, to answer, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u142	Thank you, ma'am. The process of modernising Basque justice is going to be a long one. That's how we announce it. It is going to make a process that will never end, because it will always have to be adapted and that, therefore, we will have to be attentive, so that we can provide solutions to the needs that justice in Basque country has. In these six months of the legislature we are working on the definition and approval, before the end of this year, of the new modernization plan, which will run until 2026. Our current system of procedural management, which you well know, Justizia Bat, and that of relations with the professionals JustiziaSip, will now change the implementation of a system that we call Avantius, which is the judicial electronic file. Avantius is also completed with the application of free justice, (Assign?), and the application for telematic relations with professional justice groups, called the Professionals Portal. Our department is immersed in this process that told it of continuous improvement, in the search for the excellence of the Administration of Justice, making, at every moment, decisions to continue in this unending one, and that we must do so with options compatible, as is obvious, with the system of justice of the state sphere. That is why we have decided to reach an agreement with the Government of Navarre, to work together between the public companies EJIE and TRACasa in the implementation of Avantius. We also work closely with legal operators, their future users, to advance the adaptations and implementations of the Avantius platform. And before keeping the current system operational and starting Avantius, our team is already immersed in a number of other issues that have to do with modernization. And I'm going to quote you some of them, so you can see what we're working on. The renewal of the portal of justizia.eus and the development of the electronic judicial headquarters, the generalization of pre-date applications for the different collectives and services, the provision of portable equipment and the visualization of posts for the award, prosecution, staff of the Basque Institute of Legal Medicine, lawyers of the Administration of Justice, to facilitate the work in mobility, pilot project for (...) videoconferencing, improvement of the recording system to allow decentralized connections, and feasibility study of the translation of the judicial neuronal translator. We have a lot more investments that, right now, I can't detail, due to the lack of time. They also range from the Justice of Vitoria elevator to works in gender courts or sustainability improvements in the courts of Durango. The agreement that we are going to sign with the Government of Navarre will allow for better interoperability in the implementation of a system approved with the Ministry of Justice, in accordance with the current rules set by the Committee... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ... the Government of Navarre will allow better interoperability in the implementation of a system approved with the Ministry of Justice, in accordance with the current rules established by the State Technical Committee for the Administration of Justice. On 2 June we sent Parliament this agreement. Today the deadline for submission by the groups of proposals is over, and I hope that it can be signed as soon as possible in order to be able to continue this continuous improvement that Basque justice needs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u144	Thank you very much, Mrs Artolazabal, for your explanation. It is true that the processes of modernization of the administrations are always permanent continuous processes, but in some things it is convenient not to try to overcome, because it was the construction of the Cathedral of Cologne, which you know took 700 and peak years. It's an exaggeration, obviously. But, Mrs Artolazabal, in the area of justice, the truth is that we are very late. Look, with the subject of the electronic judicial file, you have indeed commented that finally the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country will opt for the AVANTIUS system, well, it is for which you have recently chosen Aragon, has also Navarra, the Principality of Andorra, etc. Man, there could have been an analysis of whether an agreement could possibly have been reached between the rest of the autonomous communities to make a comprehensive system that was or facilitated compatibility. But, well, it's okay. On the subject of modernization, the modernization of justice is not only the judicial file, which, by the way, would not be bad if it were to arrive as soon as possible, but also the facilities. Look, looking at all the budget implementation items, I have seen that of the €35 million that there are, more or less, for the modernisation of justice, only €5 million has been executed in what we have been doing for the year, only €5 million out of 35. Fortunately, part of this 5 million has been allocated to the Vitoria courts to actually fix the elevator, although I have already told you that it has broken again, now it seems that they have repaired it again, something happens with that elevator. Anyway, let's talk about the Bilbao courts. The other day I paid a visit to the courts in Bilbao, and we also proposed in the committee that parliamentary groups visit the courts in Bilbao, and the truth is that I found myself in a desolating situation, counselor. I found some judges who in many things are closer to being judged third worldists. Look, I'm going to give you some examples. I don't even ask you about the Prosecutor's office building, because that's already for the record, but the buildings of the Bilbao Courts, which here are lawyers, and they know them perfectly, are buildings without windows or, rather, they have windows, but they can't be opened. Well, you can open one per plant, but only for security issues. And there it is. And with the covid theme, you'll understand that you can't air properly. Officials are overcrowded. They're surrounded by shopping carts where the files are kept. The truth is that the problem is desolating, because it's not up to them anywhere. You cannot comply with the maximum permitted settings. I mean, there's too many people in the courts, there's no spaces, they're not well-conditioned. There was, as you know, an outbreak of covid a few months ago and the truth is that the situation was tremendous. The courts of Bilbao do not pass a work inspection, let's go, not by far, and do not comply with the regulations of Occupational Risk Prevention, but this is something recognized. I am not talking specifically about the Courts of Gender Violence, which, man, are so sensitive to everyone and particularly to their department, where by the structure there are, indeed, many times alleged aggressors and victims have to cross over. It is good that, thanks to the good work done by the officials, the situation is renewed day by day, but the truth is that the courts need intervention as soon as possible. It is a commitment of this Government, Madam Councillor, at the beginning of the legislature. Our group signed with the groups supporting the Government a commitment to urge the Government to continue in this process. But the truth is, time has passed. The question we all ask ourselves, judges, prosecutors, lawyers, users of the Justice Administration, is, counselor, for when? Could you tell me when the building thing is? I ask you, please, that your department no longer takes time, no longer takes time to resolve this issue, because when you have competences, counselor, you have to exercise them, and you also have to exercise them well. I will ask you again about this issue in Parliament again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u145	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Lady Artola generous, to answer, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u146	Thank you, ma'am. It's been six months since 2021. There is no doubt that the budget implementation will be carried out at 100%. The needs are detected. And it is true that we have a space problem in the Bilbao Courts building, which has been coming for many years now. The department's objective, and we have stated this, is to develop this infrastructure plan that will improve the buildings where judicial services are provided to citizens. We are working on the acquisition of new infrastructure close to the current Bilbao courts. But in the meantime, we have to keep improving what the spaces we have are. Yes, I think I should also talk to the entities and the representatives...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-11.u147	Thank you, chief physician. As we have exhausted the list of subjects, I have put an end to the whole meeting. The meeting ended at two o'clock in the afternoon.
