ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the entire Union, please. Sit each one in your places. I'm warning you that the 1st, 7, 11, and 18 points have been left for another purpose. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, which is made by the members of the legislatures of the Maddalen Irina Pregregated to the President, in order to respond to the present necessities of this part of our people." Mrs. Okiñena, your word is yours. And, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u1	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Urkullu, good morning. The desire to improve the conditions and conditions of the citizen moves the Basque Country in the daily practice of politics. And it is plain, what way this people ought to take to attain this end. The problem of the citizen, the conflict in this country, is that we have the full determination to respond to the confessionals in this country, and that's what we're doing. That's what we're here for in the Parliament of Navarre, that's what we're at Congress in Madrid for. That's why we're in the councils of this town. That's why we make deals. That's our compass. Improving people's diary. And to do this is to promote or promote public policies and to walk in the right direction. Mr. President and ladies, as you know in the past 2022 days, are having an interview with the government about the budgets. Two reasons have given way, and have made this way possible: Our clear, complete determination to improve the conditions of the population, and the integrity that has shown us to change the attitudes and to speak. What ought to be in the ordinary practice of politics, we have seen the decency of seeking interviews and agreements, when we have spoken of the type of government which we have so often repeated. That's why I asked you today, Mr. Urkullu, if it's possible to act as you are. For politics cannot always be done only by looking at arithmetic, for in politics one and two are not always three. And the Basque People are never disappointed in the conversation. It's not the budget proposition that I'm making when we think that this town needs what it needs at this time, the pandemy, where some people want to make postpandemia too fast, but when we're unable to do it, the needs of the people and their needs should be placed in the center of public policy. But we said that in the interview and the budget section to find harmony with us, the government's honesty has opened an opportunity. We've seen a chance to improve the budget, and we're making a good effort to get it. For the decisions which we now make will be conditioned by a whole decade, and so will those which we do not receive, and we are all affected. So I want to announce today that the Basque People will not present 2022 full corrections. the budgets of the year. A sign of our goodwill. We'll get the agreements sometimes, sometimes we won't get them, but that's our determination, Mr. Urkullu, who's got us at work, we're working and we're still working. We do what we say and we say what we do. The compass that guides us in our daily political activity are people, their needs and work to improve the living conditions of Basques and Basques. We are clear that these are not the budgets that this country needs. We are clear that these are not our budgets, but we have seen the possibility of improving them. We have been opened a door to improve these budgets and we are working with full determination. That is why I am announcing to you today that Euskal Herria Bildu is not going to present an amendment to the 2022 budgets in full as a sign of our sincere desire for dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u3	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. I'm grateful for the parliamentary staff of the Basque Country, and I appreciate it and I appreciate the decision you've made. Keeping the recent negotiations open opens the options to get other deals. With the budget, everything will be necessary and useful to convert the challenges we have before us. In my third legislation, as far as the budgets are concerned, a new road opens. We advanced in negotiations two or three years ago, we have always shown our honesty, but at the last moment we did not succeed. Now we have a new chance... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... In our negotiations we have always shown our honesty, but at the last moment we were not agreed. Now we have a new chance. We've always said that the law of the ancients is a key to a law. It is clear that the budgets have sufficient importance to weave and develop larger agreements. We're here to work and hit the road. It will not be the first time that we made important deals here yesterday on the legislature itself: To resist violence against women, and to maintain equality, to regulate and control the tourist use of weights, or to accept the parent of nature. These are examples and we'll have plenty of opportunities in the economic, social and political area for the new settlements. Education, auto-generacy, health, climate change, social policies, I would mention young people. We've got a lot of jobs on this staff to go on with these things. Now, in the situation we live in, the budgets of the next year are important enough to encourage a new strategy. These budgets are hip modifiers. These are effective tools, and it will at the present moment ensure the protection and encouragement which these strategies require. Resurgent, Euskadin, Science, Technology, News Plans, Basque Industry 4.0, Basque Country International Plana, 2030 Aged and permanent development targets, response to the Basque Green Deal or demographic organization. All this strategy is essential, and we have to build it by an example of cooperation. That's why we appreciate your attitude and understanding. I am grateful for the decision of the parliamentary group, Euskal Herria Bildu, not to make an amendment to the entire draft Government Budgets. It is a great opportunity to highlight the importance of the negotiation and budgetary dialogue that we have had. We are aware that the Government has a sufficient parliamentary majority, but I have always expressed our willingness to extend the agreements to accounts that are of strategic importance for the revival of economic activity, the generation of employment opportunities and the guarantee of social cohesion. We welcome the useful policy of the agreement and the commitment especially this year 2022, which we hope will enable us to overcome the health, economic, social and emotional difficulties caused by the pandemic. We are now opening a process of negotiating partial amendments which we are convinced will improve the draft presented and broaden a common basis for the citizens of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, "About the rating of Housing Guide Housing Guide 2020 times over the Housing Guide of Housing Parking, Housing, Housing and Transport. " Madame San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u5	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. Arriola jauna, in 2015 this House approved the Housing Law promoted by the Basque Socialists. One before and one after, a milestone for the history of this country, which produced a turning point in housing policies, giving it a much more social character. The Department of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transportation that you lead has referred to this House the Housing Master Plan 2021-2023, which will be conducted in commission through communication. Perhaps it is through my passage through the administration, but I am convinced that planning, but above all the monitoring and evaluation of public policies, is a fundamental tool for moving forward, in this case, on housing, in the development of that Housing Act, which, as I have said, we are currently driving the Basque socialists and which today guides the direction of those policies of the department that you lead, Mr Arriola. The previous Housing Master Plan 2018-2020 incorporated the spirit of the law for the first time in its approach. The objective was clear and was no other than to guarantee the social role of housing and the subjective right of citizens to it through the preferential promotion of rent, the promotion of rehabilitation, urban regeneration or the use of empty floors. This Master Housing Plan was first and foremost an unequivocal impetus to rental policies, the development of endowment housing and the mobilization of empty private housing for social rental. Secondly, this master plan has promoted policies aimed at more efficient management of the protected housing stock, giving a social dimension, and above all, making Alokabide an absolute reference. Thirdly, procedures for the award and review of access requirements to protected housing have improved. Fourthly, it has opted for rehabilitation, accessibility, energy efficiency and much more sustainable housing, which has also been an impetus to policies for the regeneration of the most degraded neighbourhoods. Fifthly, it has also brought about an innovation in the implementation of other models that are suited to the needs of the population, especially in policies aimed at young people, with the Gaztelagun programme, which gives them the opportunity to emancipate themselves, and without a doubt, to develop their life plan in Euskadi, or also by promoting friendly housing, in what is a new strategy to give an opportunity to population ageing and the elderly. And finally, sixthly, it has strengthened collaboration between institutional actors. Such institutional collaboration is also the key part of the success of housing policies through precisely cross-cutting policies. In short, the 2018-2020 Housing Master Plan has been the framework for the Basque Government's housing policies over the past three years. A strategic document that is central to the development of the Housing Act adopted in 2015 by this Parliament, and also to addressing housing challenges in the Basque Country. In view of the forthcoming presentation of the new Housing Master Plan in parliamentary committee after the previous one's term of office has ended, the Basque Socialist Parliamentary Group raises the following oral question to the councillor: what is the assessment you make... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... the validity of the previous one, the Basque Socialist parliamentary group raises the following oral question to the adviser: What is your assessment, Mr. Counsellor, on the implementation of the previous Housing Director Plan 2018-2020." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u6	Thank you, Mrs. San José. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. San José. As you have pointed out, the 2018-2020 Housing Master Plan has been the first one that we have addressed after the adoption of the Basque Housing Law in 2015, in which we are turned. This plan has contributed with its 104 actions and a budget execution of just over €1,082 million to advance in realizing the effects of this law. As a result, in its current period of operation, the level of achievement of the targets has been high despite the negative effects of the pandemic that we are experiencing that affected us with all its cruelty in 2020, the last year of the plan's useful life. As I said, despite this, 21 of the 35 evaluation indicators have reached the highest level of compliance. As you know, Euskadi's main problem with housing is the shortage of supply. And that's why our efforts have focused on activating it. The sheltered rental housing park has reached 25,823 housing units during this period, which exceeds the targets set. We have done this by starting new homes and provide housing, 1,977 in total, and acquiring land for 1,973 new homes. We have also emphasized the mobilization of empty private park housing through the Bizigune programme, with 6,451 houses captured. In addition, we have recognised 6,137 applications for subjective housing rights, while the Gaztelagun programme, which benefited 1,903 young people in 2020, has moved from a pilot initiative to a government structural programme. Also, and during this period, the public housing park has responded to the most serious needs of our society, surpassing the objectives set both in the Housing Alternative Programme against Gender Violence and in the transfer of housing to the third sector for social inclusion projects and the Housing Alternative Programme against Evictions. In this chapter, the enormous social work carried out by Alokabide over these three years is very remarkable. With regard to rehabilitation, we have improved the accessibility of 16,966 households, rehabilitated 35,413 housing units, including 6,253 with comprehensive projects for efficient rehabilitation and mobilized the sector with more than a relevant contribution to the economy. Each euro spent on rehabilitation has generated 37 euros. This clear multiplier effect of the aid will be accentuated in the coming months by the new order of aid for the rehabilitation and arrival of Nex funds. Finally, repeat that more than half of the households living in Euskadi for rent, about 120,000, have direct or indirect public support from the Basque Government either through the public rental park itself or through monthly subsidies for the rent payment in free housing. In short, I believe that we have met the objectives set out in the Plan and, in addition, adapting ourselves to the pandemic context that has affected us, we have been able to design and implement extraordinary protection measures for the most vulnerable families with rent exemptions, extraordinary subsidies and suspensions of evictions. I think we've done it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u8	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, "The hatred of Mi, together with Podemos, a member of the Antices to the president, has increased the independence of Eukadin, as well as of the state of the public health of Eukadicus." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u9	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, President. Covida's cumulative incision is 374 of 100,000 inhabitants. During the last seven days the positive has been reported only yesterday, 919. They take care of 36 people at the UCI right now. By the way, the government is planning to take the Olympic measures as the transmission of virus?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Gorrotxategi andrea. The Basque Government will implement the measures provided for in the contingency plans with which it works, in particular the measures contained in this document which I show it, the ICU Contingency Plan, Critical Care in Osakidetza to deal with the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic. Kontingentzia Plan horrek honako eduki hauek hartzen ditu kontuan: barne antolamendua, giza baliabideak eta baliabide materialak, zerbitzuan daden oheak zabaltzeko agertokiak, eguneroko jarraipena Egyptek acting taula eta Kontingentzia Planaren ebaluazia. I assure you that the RedMork track will have the necessary resources and organizational capacity to give proper answers to the needs that are created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u12	Thank you... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... that the information, the need of resources, and the organizational ability to provide a suitable answer to the wants which are produced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u14	Mr. President, you know, your government knows that we've been fighting the pandemia for all the concrete measures that the government has taken. But I think it is our intention and our duty to manifest contradictions also. And, for instance, to prevent contagion from being distracted by the first precaution, but at the same time, when the centers of the night's attention were closed, he led them to collect more people in hospitals. And in this sense, I must say, if it is true that pandemia has touched our health system, it was partly affected by the reductions given to the crisis of 2008. That is to say, beyond the accuracy or uncertainty of the concrete measures taken to deal with the virus, the truth is that there are problems that are structural and that make it difficult for the health crisis to be managed properly. I am referring to this, to these problems I am referring to, and these problems are indeed a global responsibility of the Government. I am referring, in particular, to insufficient investment in public health, the high rates of temporaryity between health workers and the systematic overload of work also in the health sector. If we look, for example, at the lack of investment in public health, Basque budgets must ensure that there is a per capita health expenditure that is adequate for the service portfolio offered by Osakidetza, avoiding reducing the provision of services below quality standards, which has a negative impact on the safety of users, users, or patients. Of course, Euskadi is an autonomous community, and the lehendakari often repeats it too, which certainly invests more euros per inhabitant in public health. But it is also true that if we speak in relative terms of GDP, of gross domestic product, he is among those who do not. The European Commission, in its recent report, says that the Spanish state spent 8.9 of its GDP on health, for example, in 2017, while the EU average for the same year was 9.8. Inverted the numbers. In Euskadi it is 5.2% of GDP, i.e. more euros yes, but much lower at the level of gross domestic product. As for temporality, it must also be said that, paradoxically, in the public sector in Euskadi where a greater eventuality is concentrated, because Euskadi has had the sad honour of being at the top of the national ranking in this respect. And the hirings that have been given to combat the pandemic in areas such as health or education as well, it turns out that they have triggered the rate of temporality up to a new historical maximum, 42.3% here in Euskadi, compared to the state average, which is 31.6%, according to data from the third quarter of the EPA survey that prepares the INE. In short, in the hands of the Government, beyond specific, specific measures, in the hands of the Government, it is that public health in Euskadi continues to have the quality that it had at some point and that of course offers its workers.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Gorrotxategi, I am not going to lose sight of the issues that you brought up in this speech. Because we have already talked about these issues to the point of satiety: full of control, full of ordinary, full of general policy debate, we are in the debate on budgets... You asked me what measures at the hospital level the Basque Government intends to implement to deal with the covid, and I have taught you the UCI contingency plan for measures at the hospital level, which includes organizational aspects of the contingency plan, the development of the UCI bed deployment scenarios, material and human resources for the deployment of the scenarios, the daily command table of the UCI contingency plan and the evaluation of the UCI contingency plan. I've told you more than once that we're still in the pandemia, that the virus is still among us, and that we can't calm down and continue to be all the means we need. So next year the Health Department will have 4.352 million euros, $168 million more than this year, Mrs. It is true that we are at a stage of increasing the incidence rate; since 12 October we have had 45 days of increase. And this increase is not having the reflection of previous waves in the hospital environment, and it is thanks to vaccination. The number of people admitted to hospitals is 179, when we have reached 550. ICUs cater to 36 people, when we've had almost 200. The figures are high and we must act so that they do not increase. However, they demonstrate that the Department of Health and Osakidetza have organizational and professional capacity to deal with situations of greater pressure and difficulty. We have administered 3.6 million vaccines, more than 90% already has the full schedule. And in parallel, this month we have given the flu vaccine to almost half a million people. We have treated 27,000 people in hospitals and 5,000 in ICUs. At this moment we are on stage one out of five in the UCI bed layout. We are taking preventive decisions: to double the screening teams; to increase the points for diagnostic appointments; to strengthen the means for carrying out tests; to expand the vaccination teams; we have proposed the desirability of regulating the certificate of vaccination covid to the Spanish Government, to the Superior Court of Justice of the Basque Country, to the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... to provide the Spanish Government, the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System and now the Supreme Court with a certificate of vaccination, so that this necessary measure of protection of public health has due legal guarantees. All this is necessary, and we shall have resources, Madam, because it is our privilege in public health. But we need more than that. We need a personal commitment, a mask to always use, to avoid the Anglo-Saxon, to keep distance, and to say yes to the vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "The question is, as Charles Iturgaz Angulo, a member of the Basque Popular Groups of Ciudads, of the President, of the hatred and inlerance of Eukadin." My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, good morning. I will give you a series of data, lehendakari, 241 hate crimes detected by Ertzaintza in 2020. In the same year Euskadi headed the autonomous communities of Spain in hate crimes, after Melilla, according to the Ministry of the Interior. An increase of 7% of hate crimes in 2021, according to Mr Erkoreka last week, two weeks ago. Today, therefore, we ask you about the increase in the manifestations of hatred and intolerance in the Basque Country, our land, lehendakari. Demonstrations affecting rights and freedoms, the integrity of people, coexistence and basic democratic values. We start from public and worrying data, which are the reflection of much more frequent situations that live every day in our streets. In 2020, according to data from the Ertzaintza, almost half of these crimes had racist motivation, one fifth homophobic, 10% had to do with the functional diversity of people, and another 10% had to do with ideology or political orientation, which we in the People's Party unfortunately know very firsthand. Thus, hatred or intolerance, with many different manifestations. And it seems clear that there are grounds for concern. As we gain in ability to detect the problem, we have a more complete and less acceptable picture of reality. As far as hatred is concerned, Euskadi is the most opposite of an oasis, lehendakari. We know that the sowing of hatred was systematic and conscientious for decades in Euskadi. We continue to live here manifestations of that hatred in our walls, streets and coexistence. Those who promoted it and promote it have never recognized the illegitimate and inhumane nature of such action. And the legitimation of that hatred seems today to extend its effects in multiple directions. To tackle this situation, the first thing is to recognize the problem, its gravity and its scope. And here we also have the first difficulty, because while the Ertzaintza, Mr Erkoreka or the Ministry of the Interior give voices of alarm, other voices in their own government contradict them. From the Equality Council, the emphasis was precisely on increasing tolerance, according to a survey by the Basque Immigration Observatory Ikuspegi this month. The truth, however, lehendakari, is that almost half of those hundreds of hate crimes every year have racist or xenophobic motivation, and that their number is growing, as you know, unfortunately. A reality that doesn't change to a poll hit, unfortunately. That is why I ask you, lehendakari, how do you value the increase in hate crimes and intolerance in our land, here, in the Basque Country?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u19	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Sir, my rating is matching what the Security Department just did. It is true that the charges of crimes of hate have been increased, but this promotion confirms that we are in possession of such crimes. More and more crimes... I'm sorry, there's more and more crimes being detected and accused. It is owing to the greater consciousness of society and the improvement of the bordering and the service offered by the municipal authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u22	Thank you. Lehendakari jauna, of course I do not doubt that they are denounced. I'd just miss it. But I come to move, and you will understand, a problem that we have in our land and that you cannot hide your head, like the ostrich, because speaking of heads, we are at the head in xenophobia, homophobia, in persecution of political ideas... The worst, as I told you before, is one of the worst situations in Spain as a whole, lehendakari. I'm not saying that. The data says so too. That's what his vicelehendakari says. Ertzaintza itself says, with an increase of 7% in 2011. Of course, the vast majority of Basques, the vast majority are tolerant and respectful people. And our group isn't even the ad messenger. The messengers are, as I told you before, other institutions that have again given the voice of alarm. And he did good, they did good. Mr. Erkoreka did the right thing to give that alarm voice with that data. Therefore, we cannot be satisfied with the surveys. We need a solid position of the Government, less contradictions of the Government itself, Mr Erkoreka or Mrs Artolazabal in some comments and, without a doubt, the breeding stock of hatred is what must be eradicated, which we are, I imagine, all together. And, without a doubt, we must get to work.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u23	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Legs. Mr Iturgaiz, I can assure you that there is no warning of growing intolerance in which xenophobia is the fundamental component... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... I can assure you that there is no warning of growing intolerance in which xenophobia is the fundamental component, as you say. This month the Barometer 2021 of Ikuspegi-Observatorio Vasco de la Immigration has been presented, and the conclusion is clear, and I quote: "The rate of tolerance of the Basque population towards people of foreign origin reaches its best record with 66 points. Basque society has responded to the health, economic and psychosocial crisis caused by COVID-19 with greater tolerance, allowing solidarity more than the uncertainty it generates." This is the date. What has actually happened in 2020 is that there have been more incidents in the police field, and that is not contradictory. The Hate Incident Report 2020 prepared by the Department of Safety and Security with the University of the Basque Country is clear, and I read to you literally what this report concludes. He says: "The reason for the increase is due to the experience of previous years in the collection and recording of data, the joint work between Ertzaintza and the university, and that the intensification of training has made it possible to improve the detection and centralization of information concerning such incidents. The more consciousness, the more denunciation." And this is the positive, that doesn't mean there are more cases. The reason is that police activity has been more effective in detecting and recording incidents. This same conclusion is drawn, Mr Iturgaiz, from the analysis of the report on the evolution of hate crimes in Spain 2020 published by the Ministry of the Interior. And this report publishes a methodological note related to the data of the Basque Country, in which it specifies, and I read literally: "it is not possible to relate directly the increase of the complaints with an increase of the events, since, together with the continuity of the formation, one of the levels of qualitative analysis carried out by the Ertzaintza on these crimes has been strengthened". This is what the report on the evolution of hate crimes in Spain 2020 published by the Ministry of the Interior says. In short, it is true that reports of hate crimes in Euskadi have increased, but it is because we are succeeding in bringing this type of crime to a greater extent. Thanks to the work of Ertzaintza and local police, more crimes are being detected and reported. I'll offer you one more piece of information. According to the Basque Sociometer, only 8% of the population considers their town or city to be not a safe place, while 90% say it is safe. My assessment, therefore, is that the path of greater social awareness and improvement of the effectiveness of the detection and registration service is the right one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Ask me, Amaia Martin, the Greyleha of Misto, a member of the legislature of the Misto Group, "about the prevention of the sixth contagion of COVID-19." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. About a month ago, when the alarms of a sixth wave of covid contagion were already beginning to ring in Europe, Councilwoman Sagardui ruled out measures to prevent the impact of the sixth wave in the Basque Country. Once again, his Government had sinned in improvisation and improvisation. The result of this is the use of the covid certificate as a tool to stop the contagions, not where it seems that they are occurring, in schools, but in the night entertainment venues, restaurants and crowd events. For months we have been trying to understand what criteria guide their decisions, and we have not just understood their insistence on the imposition of the covid certificate despite the hindrance of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country to its claims. That is why, Mr Urkullu, we ask you: what is the reason why the Basque Government has decided at this particular moment on the covid certificate for the control of access of unvaccinated persons to nightclubs, restaurants and various events?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u27	Thank you, Mrs Marinnez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u28	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Mrs Martínez, I will be staying for the time being to try to clear up an issue which, at least, I will call incongruity with what you have said. Because you state in the justification of your question, and you mentioned it here, that Councilwoman Sagardui ruled out the adoption of measures for the control of COVID-19 contagion in the last full of control. This is not true. I'll read to you what the councilwoman told you in that plenary. He said: "We will keep an eye on the evolution of the pandemic, alerts, in case it is necessary to take more preventive measures than we currently have, because we have them." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u30	Mr Lehendakari, Mrs Sagardui spoke of Christmas seminormality, which has nothing to do with what you are predicting. In addition to criticizing the scant work done by his team to defend the implementation of the covid certificate, only 11 leaflets and ill-argued, the judges of the Superior Court of Justice of the Basque Country ruled that its implementation violates the fundamental rights of persons, equality, privacy, assembly, and ambulatory freedom. That the figures he handles have nothing to do with those of a few months ago, when the percentage of people vaccinated was significantly lower. We are currently in 90% of vaccinated people over 12 years of age... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... have to do with those of a few months ago, when the percentage of people vaccinated was significantly lower. We are currently in 90% of vaccinated people over 12 years of age, you said so yourself. According to his own data, and after listening to Councillor Bildarratz, it seems that the resurgence of contagion is especially significant in the classrooms of children under 12 years old, a collective even without vaccination. Kids you don't see in the nightclubs, but we can see in the restaurants. However, once again, you focus the blame on the hospitality. An obsession, moreover, during the months of pandemic, again points out as spaces where the pandemic grows says that because of the relaxation of people, relaxation that apparently only occurs in bars and restaurants, not in abertzale demonstrations, fairs or schools. In addition to pointing them out as guilty, he claims that now the employees of the nightclubs and restaurants are the ones who check the covid certificates and the data contained in them, whether they are the full-time and free of charge anti-Vivid vigilantes, a very clear violation of the Data Protection Act that you defend, arguing that the Interterritorial Council has not made decisions for the whole State, that its partners Sánchez has not committed the legislative change that he promised. From the minute one you have become a sign of identity your claim of autonomous management of the global pandemic. It has been demarcated from the rest of the communities repeatedly. However, it now calls for collaboration and coordination, all one after a month in which you have been a strong defender of autonomous management. If the vaccination is intended to be compulsory, it is not a receipt that imposes vaccination through the back door, discriminating against those who have exercised the law's right not to be vaccinated. They should explain to us, for example, what is happening in order to double the incidence in the Basque Country to the whole of Spain, it will be for the hobby of Basque children under the age of 12 to frequent nightclubs and restaurants. There's a lot at stake, Mr. Urkullu, a lot of people bewildered by his repeated announcements of worse times. Many entrepreneurs who don't know what to stick to, many businesses whose survival goes through a holiday as normal as possible. On 22 November, Mr Urkullu, said that he would not appeal to the Supreme Court of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country not to authorize the covid passport. Two days later, on 24 November, he did, why these changes in turn, is it because of the pressure from the government partners, as Mrs Mendia has been told?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u31	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Your word is yours, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u32	Eskerrik asko legebiltzarburu andrea, Mrs Martínez, I carry three consecutive fulls of control warning you that you only do an exaggeration exercise after exaggeration after exaggeration. It is a permanent exercise from where you go apples I bring, to take out the phrases of context, of manipulation of what one says and does not say. Anyway, you follow the same line. In any case, I would like to reiterate to you the same idea, day-to-day follow-up and the adoption of the necessary measures, that is, always with the utmost legal certainty, Mrs Martínez. That is why we are calling from the outset for a state of alarm we, Mrs Martínez, myself, are calling for an extension of the state of alarm, we, me, Mrs Martínez. That is why we call for the adequacy of the State Public Health Act, I, Mrs Martínez, or, in your case, for the adoption of a new law in the face of the conflicting judicial decisions that we have witnessed and are witnessing. The health authorities advised the Government of the covid certificate for the control of access of persons not vaccinated in certain premises. Our only reason is to preserve people's health and lives. In the middle of the world the covid certificate is required. For this reason, we have proposed this measure and, despite the fact that it is being successfully applied in our environment, the Court of Justice of the Basque Country did not authorize it for the reason of (?)). After noting that neither the Spanish Government nor the Inter-Territorial Health Council assume to guarantee legal coverage, we have decided to appeal to the Supreme Court for cassation. Our reason is to respond responsibly to every circumstance. The implementation of the covid certificate is a measure that extends throughout the world, in Europe and in several autonomous communities. It is an appropriate, timely and proportionate measure to strengthen the effectiveness of the vaccine. It does not impose any restrictions on mobility or social activity. That is why we have previously proposed to the Interterritorial Council an agreement that will determine for the whole State the regulation of the use of the so-called covid passport. In addition, we have proposed additional measures: to strengthen the compulsory use of the mask on the outside, to advance the age for the third dose of the vaccine, to accelerate the arrival of the paediatric vaccine for administration to children under 12 years of age, Mrs Martínez, we have asked for this. The vaccine is the most effective tool. Not getting vaccinated is a decision that has consequences. An unvaccinated person can spread to others. International scientific evidence shows that the possibility of an unvaccinated person being hospitalized is five times greater. The covid certificate strengthens the vaccination process and is doing so in countries such as Austria or Germany. And it's very likely that you won't be able to travel anywhere soon without a covid passport. Those who are not vaccinated must understand that society must be protected from the risk posed by its decision. Vaccination is the most effective measure to save lives and protect one's health and that of others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "I'm asking you, Joseph Manuel Gilegas, the popular team of the Ciudadans, a member of Economics of Economics, patience, and Environmental Department of Economics, about the Renove Machine Reminata Plan." Mr. Gil is your word from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President, Madam Counsellor. The machine tool sector is a key sector in the Basque economy and one of our signs of identity. According to data from the Basque Government itself in 2018, around 90% of the machine tool in Spain is built here in Euskadi, and Spain is the third in the world. In addition, we have the Spanish Machine Tool Biennial, which is one of the most important industrial fairs in the world and the most important in Spain and which will return in June 2022, putting for a week Basque as a world leader in the sector. The sector is currently experiencing a difficult time as a result of the pandemic. It is a sector that in turn depends in part on the health of another sector... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ...the sector's global benchmark. The sector is currently experiencing a difficult time as a result of the pandemic. It is a sector that, in turn, depends in part on the health of other sectors, on which we have already spoken in other full-scale control, such as aeronautics or automobiles. Last year was also a very negative year for this sector. Revenue fell by 21.42 % and exports by 22 %. Despite the estimated growth for this year, around 15%, the pre-pandemic level will soon not be recovered until 2022 and the sector will therefore continue to need help to return to the pre-pandemic level. And in this scenario, the Basque Government reduces the departure for Renove Machine Tool from EUR 2 million to EUR 100,000 while at national level the Renove Plan maintains its second consecutive year the same endowment. So, Counselor, can you explain to us why the amount is not kept in Euskadi? What criteria have you, or your department, followed for such an important reduction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u35	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs and congressmen, good morning to all of you. Mr Gil, the Renove Machinery Programme was launched for the first time in 2016 in view of the needs of our SMEs for modernisation, the introduction of new production processes, energy efficiency and so on. In addition to modernising the equipment, we wanted our companies to be able to achieve greater occupational safety and health, and of course to increase their competitiveness. Since SPRI, from the Basque Agency for Business Development, this program of Renove Machinaria with 8 million euros in 2016, 9 million in 17, which were increased to 12 million, was launched in 16 and 17 years. Subsequently, in 2020, as a result of the economic crisis following the pandemic crisis, not only the machine tool sector suffered, but all the others too, different types of actions were launched and, in particular, a Renove Machinery programme with EUR 5 million, to which 90 projects were submitted. Since it was launched, it was published in September, on 14 September, and 12 months existed or started in order to be able to implement these budgets, of the 5 million and 50 % at the time of the concession were provided to the companies and to the contracting projects. Obviously, of those 5 million 2 had to be moved to the year 2021 and the 100,000 euros are what can be subtracted from these projects, from that call of 5 million that can reach 2022. However, in addition to this program, there is another that you will know very well, which is called Renewed Industry 4.0, in which, in addition to the machinery, we intend to renew all aspects of automation, software and other that give our companies sufficient competitiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u38	Thank you very much for your explanations, Counsellor. I have the doubt that there is going to be a next Plan Renewal Machine Tool, which is what it would really need. But what is evident is that these numbers that we have just seen are the priorities of your Government, and it is clear that while they almost load the Machine Tool Renovation, and we still do not know how it will go in the future and have half abandoned to the aeronautics or automotive sectors, we have found that the budgets you have submitted include a 9% increase, nothing more and nothing less, of the budget for EITB, breaking the record of being the most expensive television per inhabitant. Or the 554 million we've spent in four years driving the Basque. Investing in the machine tool sector is also investing in Euskadi. It is investing in a sector that generates wealth and employment, but needs help to get out of the crisis. This year will not be enough for us only with that remnant of the previous programme. This budget has highlighted its priorities. And we need public money, put at the service of a nationalist political project, to change priorities and to change objectives, so that we do not just make citizens believe that we are better managers than others, when then we actually either execute or reduce budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u39	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Tapia andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u40	Mr Gil, at the moment it is a priority for this government, but also for this country, digitisation, automation, and of course the qualitative leap in our productive fabric. Hence the program is not currently called Renove Machinery only or machine tool, but is called Renove Industria 4.0, which, in 2019, equipped with 4 million euros, had 234 projects submitted, of which 98 were approved. In the 20, 177, 104 approved with 6 million euros of endowment. It has 21 189 projects submitted that are currently being analysed with a budget of 5 million. That's the way we have to go, and that's what the sector tells us. By the way, in the Spanish State, it is the first time, the first time, that a programme of these characteristics is provided and that the call is taken out, because there has been a budget that has not been implemented, of 50 million euros, and that allows it to complement what is being done from Euskadi. And of course, Mr Gil, if you were so concerned about this issue, where you have been not to influence the state so that that budget that this year has certainly come out for public call for an amendment, of the Basque Nationalist Party by the way, you have not been able to establish it. Where have you been so far? We continue with the modernization of the productive fabric, not only of the machine tool, but above all the rest. And of course, digitization and Industry 4.0 are our priority; not just machinery, but all the software and all the automatic and electronic systems that are needed to make that a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, "about the new lines of evacuation in the higher intensity of the Department of Economics, the growth, the patience, and environmental development of the Economics." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u42	Yes, good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mrs. Tapia. Yesterday we were glad that we agreed to the law of Natur Ondare. I warned you that it's not the same, and that we must be careful to accept a law to preserve nature's legacy and actually to preserve it. And I think today I come with a potent example to talk about the dangers of this. And it's the new high tension lines, isn't it? We've already got a lot of electric high blood pressure lines in the Basque Country. And now they're building or building other things through electrical red planning. From the Gatica to the Burdeos, from the Guieñes to the sea, from Castejón to the sea. And even if these are useful, red electronous... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... The one that goes to the Burdeos, that goes from the Gueñes to the sea from Casteon. And, well, even if they're useful, they're part of a Red Eletric planning. But now we have new novels, and we have a new problem, and it's the private line of high-endation and their projection coming, isn't it? The scheme would be about four words. I mean, the different Aragon power reorganized in massively and made hundreds of miles of evacuation lines. This is beyond Red Electric planning. Many of them come here, and we have already several lines on our floor that will have an affection, right? They come to Vittorie, Jundi, Arzubia, and another to Mirandar, but it passes through the Essupal country, and one goes through the whole Biscaia to Gaza. And the whole lung flows through the plains, the Abar Riox, etc., etc. Not just lines, but sub stations. I hesitated to ask him when he came to you. I don't know how well to ask it as the manager of the neurotic policy or as responsible for environmental policy; and I have decided I would like to ask you on both sides. For, on the one hand, we see this whole planning and this gigantic bubble that is creating itself around the retatory energy, and that these co-existing sub-structures, which are said to be, will be entirely conditioned by our own neurogentic transition. And, on the other hand, it seems to me that the environmental chief would have to worry enough, because this will bring in the depotations, the occupational arrangements will bring in large environmental inclosures, and all this will be done without any strategic evaluation. So I think we ought to be a little concerned about the environment, either for the wounds it supposes, or many wounds it supposes, and, on the other hand, because it is quite conditioned by our displicegue or our re-extended extension, because our sub-states can be occupied with the energy from without, isn't it? The Navarre Government has already said that these plans are unacceptable, the government of Errisha has said that these plans are unacceptable. Even our people in our countries are accepting the motion one after the other, and I'm seeing it in different kinds ofputations, both in Biscay and Araban, and, well, se ha puesto el cilo, isn't it? This is completely unacceptable. I am today, and I know your jurisdiction is not to draw back these lines, but I want to ask you, or I want to ask you a clear political position on this subject. And that's what I'm here for.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u43	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u44	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Otero, I agree with all the context you've mentioned, I don't know if we're going to start precouping or something, but I agree. For I believe that in this new planning, we must not be conditioned at the points of connection with what comes from without, but also that we need more, because if we really need a recurrent wager, we need modernization in these points of connection, and we need the power to get ahead of it. And in that sense, this new planning, 21-26, is already getting ready, though it's too late, we're asking for that shit from the funk. If, on the one hand, we have to bet on the hydrogen, and even on the Muses' side, we must be able to make a strong stake for the hydrogen, we must, in some measure, be able to account for our position. If we have to do the hydrogeon and the gas substitution, that also is necessary. So that's how it is. And we already see, for instance, the Equire Project, or the Vigerus, where the biogas is going, we wouldn't have... o' we'd have trouble making connections because there are other things in it that are completely connected, wouldn't we? In this sense, we have arrived at the moment at carrying out those great lines which you have spoken of on both sides, and what our opinion is. And clearly, from both sides, I'll answer, too, what is our position as far as energy and environmental point of view, what's quite clear. It's the first thing. On the one hand, we don't see that this is the way to do it, because, in a sense, a energy, or a energy that is to be produced beside it, will arise more than a hundred miles away, because crossing our whole country, on the one hand, our power is conditioned by us, and besides, because other alternatives are nearer; and we must be careful to do things. And we think, too, that we have spoken of, in truth, of the points of generation-that is, the points of creation and of evacuation must be as near as possible, and, on the other hand, the creation and consumption must be as near as possible. Our position, therefore, in this respect alone would be contrary to our position. Bigarrenik, Ikuspegitik infurumen. The occupation of land by this type of action, of course we said of lines more than 150 kilometers far away from the points of consumption and of course far away from the points of evacuation, from the points of generation, we consider that they occupy a land that is not justified and that is perfectly avoidable with other alternatives. Therefore, it is a priority that really contrasts what are the alternatives. Is it really necessary to build these new lines? Do we need to build these new lines as they have been proposed or are there other alternatives, as we said? And, moreover, it is limiting us absolutely and we have to strengthen our own lines, which already exist, if it is necessary to increase their power, but we do not understand that it is necessary in this case to build these lines. For the needs of Euskadi we understand that with the lines we have, the reinforcement of the connecting points and the reinforcement of the power, if necessary, of the tension of the lines would be sufficient. Therefore, we understand that from that point of view we also have to have it. State planning of such lines and such projects. We believe that we need to assess all the circumstances that lead to them being taken into account, consider all the affected communities and certainly look for the best solutions. And, of course, from the environmental point of view, I insist, we believe that the processing of the lines that are being done at this time goes against those basic criteria of closeness of production to closeness of... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... I insist, we believe that the processing of the lines that are being done at this time runs counter to those basic criteria of closeness of production to closeness of distribution and that the evacuation points are also as close as possible. Any other possibility requires...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u46	...of other kinds of analysis.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u47	Your time is up. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u48	Yeah. I won't say much new. I'm glad. Well, I think we share the point of view, both as regards my own and as the custody of environment, that the project is not acceptable. I take advantage of these 20 seconds to say that it's very important to say that we've said from the beginning that we need planning, planning, and planning, when we're making a very important transition, it's very important to plan the country, that it's important to carry on this retraceable PTS and make it very clear that it's very important that we're not going to give these projects.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u49	Thank you, Mr. Otero. The tenth point in the subject list: "Ask David Soso Rodríguz together Podemos-Nozzeral members of the Economics Department of Economy, sustainability, and environmental chief COP26 of Glasgow not to continue investing and exploiting in fossil fuels, gas and oil sector." Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Counsellor, the Glasgow COP26 has reached a number of agreements. These include agreements to reduce methane emissions and reductions in public funding for fossil fuels. The Basque Government in its budget project has reinvested 21 million funds or proposed the investment of 21 million public funds to SHESA in the next three years to continue to exploit hydrocarbons. And it continues to participate in gas-exploiting companies, such as Bizkaia Bay, Itxasgas or Enagas, North Transportation. How long will the Basque Government continue to invest public money in these societies that run counter to the objectives of combating the climate catastrophe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u51	Thank you, Mr. Soto. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u52	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Soto, as I said, the conclusions of COP26 are very small in number, but they have interesting conclusions that challenge us all, the institutions and the legislatures, as well as all political and social actors. And within the imperfection of the agreement, we said, of course, as the Government's assessment that it is a historic agreement, that it is an agreement that involves many states and many agents, that it is an agreement that also leads implementation to action and that it is a solidarity agreement. Solidarity with those most vulnerable countries. But that vulnerability is not born and ends with us putting economic resources at their disposal, but we can, of course, look at them in a different way. Of course solidarity will be real and sincere if we are able not to desire in their fields what we do not want in our own. There is no point in keeping our soil and soil intact if we are then, well, using the money we put into that fund so that the poorest countries continue to act because we need what they do. We are therefore going to work from solidarity, from ecology and from what the Glasgow Summit says and also from human rights. But we're going to Euskadi. In Euskadi we have made the commitments of the Glasgow Summit and of course we are going to act so that they can be a reality. But gas remains a transitional energy. Our companies and our economic resources and our society still depend, at least one third, on gas. And we have to work to replace it with hydrogen or biogas. But, in the meantime, the Minister of the Ecological Transition herself, in the midst of this situation of very high energy prices, good, because Algeria has gone to guarantee the supply for the entire population. And the supply for the entire population also goes through that facility that we have in Bilbao, in the port of Bilbao, BBG, so that the metaneros can reach Euskadi and can bring the energy we need. The transition, Mr Otero said, must therefore be planned, planned and well-ordered. From one day to the next, things can't be done. Our commitment is absolute to fulfilling what the Glasgow Summit says. But it also says that it has to be an orderly and just transition.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u54	Thank you, Counselor. Indeed, we have already discussed it on more than one occasion, gas is a necessary asset at this time and also of transition. But it is because his Government, like so many others, did not start the transition in the 1990s. They are stretching the gas business until the Paris Agreement and global warming have said enough. If we had invested in renewables since the 1990s, today, Euskadi would probably be very close to being energy sovereign and not dependent on gas. Renewables do, but in an orderly and planned way, as you said. Because the renewable energy PTS is not expected until 2023. Two more years of freeway to solar megaplants and wind farms in protected areas. By the way, an element that will also be allowed through the Environmental Heritage Act passed yesterday. And as far as hydrogen is concerned, the transition from the gas sector to hydrogen is very good for us. But what we do not see is that investments and the transition of certain companies from hydrocarbon oligopoly now to hydrogen oligopoly are once again at the hands of the government. Where we do believe that public money should go is in advancing energy sovereignty to, in this case, unplug us from the energy oligopoly. We have recorded, as you know, a proposal for a law in this regard to create a public energy company for the commercialisation of energy in a public way, to advance energy sovereignty and to stop investing in societies that exploit or exploit fossil fuels. Recently, moreover, a multinational company has taken steps in this direction announced this same week, Endesa specifically, which will abandon all its gas assets, including combined cycle plants. We would like to know when in Euskadi and whether there is any date in relation to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u55	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mrs. Tapia, it's yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u56	Well, I feel like we're on Marmot Day always arguing about the same thing. But the date is the one that marks the Glasgow Summit clearly: 2050 for the absolute decarbonisation of the entire economy. I can't say anything else since we share it 100%. But that decarbonization goes through renewable energy, energy efficiency and storage. Those are the three variables we have to work with. But, in the meantime, that of energy sovereignty because I would love to be able to share it, but it is that, in addition to sovereignty, it is necessary to be realistic and it is necessary to be realistic. At this moment we are absolutely connected to other places. That's why we have the energy... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... sovereignty must be realistic. And you have to be realistic. At this moment we are absolutely connected to other places. As a result, we have enough energy to survive. And, of course, we have to be aware that it is not that Euskadi has decided to make a gas bet as a transitional energy. It's just that everybody does it. Sorry, we're going to be realistic there too. Then we will work on this decarbonisation and, of course, since the adoption of the Climate Change Act in Europe and the adoption in the State, the dates are quite clear. However, I insist, we will follow in an orderly and planned manner that possible transition and that necessary decarbonisation in industry, in mobility, in all sectors that will enable us to achieve the objectives set. Everything will be necessary, larger and smaller installations. And, from the environmental point of view, with all the maximum guarantees, guarantees, of course. And, if such facilities cannot be established at a given location, they will not be done. But, of course, where you can, we're going to have to work to make it that way. We're gonna do everything we need to do. But, of course, let's, in addition to being possibleists, let's be realistic. And I insist, let's do it responsibly and in solidarity. And from the solidarity of not trying to make the neighbor do what we don't do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "Interrelation, with Erasitz de Egililaz Ramos, with the members of the EH Collectors to the head of the Board of Education, concerning the conditions of investigators and Doctors." Ms. Saez de Egilaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u58	Thank you, Chief. Good morning, Congressmen, good morning chief. We would like to ask you today about the work of the investigators, the President of the Union, for there is a great deal of inquiry about his contributions, but this central square is rarely given to researchers. We can imagine in front of what great book of laboratory it is. But unfortunately, the workers who study our country have not guaranteed worthy conditions of work. In the lab, in front of a computer between books, we want to work around the working conditions of working workers which will be able to defend them in the future. If study, development, and whatever it is, is to act well and with dignity, because it is necessary to guarantee worthy conditions of labour. In this square, if he appeared, I asked him what he would say to a friend of my study a few years ago. He, Elen, who is 25 years old as I am and has four years of age plus two years of maestership, has been studying EHU thanks to a scholarship. I'd like to make it audio because there was a lot of feeling and anger in every word she said. He gets 979 euros. And you can't independenize because it's simply impossible. She's 25 years old, she wants to leave her parents' home, but she can't take a decent life forward in Donostian. It's not just paying for rent. For instance, congregress and such, must also pay for them. And they don't pay him the least diet for work. He's got a 35-hour contract, but he's got over 35 hours. Besides, it is necessary that class should be classed, because of the scholarship which it possesses. And it's good for him to give those classes to the curriculum, but the classes take a lot of time away from him. Some things are clearly consumed which are not established by principle in its contract. And, according to what he says, it takes him hours to dedicate his thesis. He said a very good sentence: "I don't think it's a great effort, a lot of mental effort. Intellectual work is the last thing in this country. And the fatigue we feel every day in our body is not paid." This is a preacher, and whoever says the contrary will laugh at a worker who is investigating him right now. It's irresponsible not to listen to the investigators, not to work for their hard-working rights. The Board of Education needs to know this because the researchers need to be brought to the front line. The Prefect marks the activity and magnitude of these workers. But I'd like to grab a border tonight. And so far have we discussed it in this legislature. Specifically, about the salary. In the first place, we must distinguish between those who are not doctors and who are doctors, these are workers we know as pre-doc and post-doc. Some of them are PhDs during the investigation; and others still study, as Doctors. Both of them working in the study world are workers who live in this world where it ought to be a showy one, and suffering an extraordinary contempt. When it comes to the teachers, for instance. In this parliament we have often discussed the question, even in this legislation. Target and demand are clean. These investigators must advance on the path that compare doctors' salarys with categories. I'm sure you'll have to make the commitments and the measures you need. The researchers who are benefited by EHU, by RedMAND or Spanish Miners, are the workers of the university. And in this way the same rights which professors have of developing their own actions must always be preserved. When we talk about predoctoral women, we talk about women workers who are making a huge contribution to society, thanks to their process and research project. In that regard, the labour rights they currently have are not sufficient. In addition, the Basque Government undertook two years ago to raise the salary of these women workers, those who receive the Basque Government grant. The minimum fees the investigators get don't reach 1,000 euros. The researchers, for example, who are benefited by the EukMIBY, collect 980 euros for the first two years. And so do those who receive the other scholarships. It's very rare. And there is no politician, institution, college, or anything else to discuss it. We've made exactly two attempts at this Board of Education. He engaged to go up the EukMU, as I said, to go up to 5%, and it didn't work. And even in this year's study, 202122, under orders finally given, thanks to the instructions from the Board of Education, we've seen that climb not to 5%... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... Twenty21-22 in school. Thanks to the orders given at last, thanks to the instructions given by the Board of Education, we've seen that 5% of 5 has not been given. We had the Asanbade of the Basque Predectors in the Basque Country, for example, in June this year, this legislature at the Board of Education. And they themselves made it clear that their salary for the predectors does not agree with the work of these investigators. The work they do isn't made up with the pay they get. To raise a salary is a matter of dignity and prestige. We must increase the salary of predicants for the welfare of society. And it has to be a question of emergency for this Board of Education. The news received in the past weeks and days has not been much better. The 80 workers of EHU, who are the benefit of the PhD, Marguerite Salas, have published severe criticisms from the impression of a reduction in their pay. We're talking about Dr. 80 Doctors in EHU and they've suffered the absurd pay down. This is not understandable. EHU has just informed us that 35,000 euros are going to be paid for 23,000 euros a year. In other words, postdoctoral researchers who receive the aid Margarita Salas is reduced by the salary of 12,000 euros, which violates the Law on Science and Technology in its article 22 and also the agreement of the UPV of the teaching and research staff, which marks for these workers a salary of 35,000 euros gross per year. But, in addition, EHU has not drawn the call for the specialization of doctors that it draws annually, in which the agreement of the PDI is fulfilled, as has well emphasized the group of professors postdoctoral researchers. And we don't know what happened here. While EHU has no money, we don't know which is the position of the Board of Education. What about these 80 employees? Is it normal to anticipate our public colleges at the rate of 12,000 euros per year? What's going on? Where are the rights for researchers, doctors, and doctors? Where are they? The working conditions of the working people in the world are extremely remote from their social employment. And that can't justify. There's no word to justify it. In the heart of all investigation processes, we have to apply the quality of research. And for this purpose it is necessary to guarantee worthy conditions of study, by establishing contrivances and measures. You need to raise your salary. And there's no doubt about it here. I believe, as a people, that we must honestly give an answer to all those researchers who make a daily academic and social contribution, because prestige is not necessarily acknowledged (... ) 'tis not confessed. This and this commitment must be shown with actions. And today-we left the researchers behind. We've had more than once a chance to revolutionize the situation in this legislature. And we see the way of the researchers, that the way of study is very terrible, hard and solitary and sad. And few conditions of work don't help it. We have heard from the mouths of parties supporting the government that it must be column in any modern society. The columns, however, must be studied in the everyday. Or the whole structure may fall down. It's the minimum demand for worthy conditions of study. In order to support decent wages and non-preferent lives, these researchers must necessarily raise their pay to continue their investigations. The researchers' rights must be guaranteed. Therefore, what is the intention of this government of education, to secure and above all to improve the fundamental rights of researchers?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Mr. Bilar, it's your turn to answer the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u60	Mr. President of the Parliament, chiefs, members of the legislature, good days. Ma'am Saez de Egililaz, I would like to show you the firm and constant wager that our government makes for the study of talent and excellence. So it is in our government program, and I have been able to express it this week in the presentation of the report of science in Euskalus 2021. This report contains the principal Euscadian results in the research department, in the finances of science, scientific results, and the transfers of technology through the indication that the research, the Basque Science, and the Technology Watchery have been monitored. As we mention in this report, the development of the past few years makes us brave enough to continue the wager that we are making for science. We can say with pleasure, for instance, that in a decade of Euskaki, our researchers have doubled scientific production, thanks to the work they do in every university and research center. We already have more than 21,000 people who devote themselves, in whole or in part, to R & D in Euskadi. This means that two out of every 100 workers in Euskadi are engaged in R & D activities. This is a very revealing fact of our Government's commitment, commitment and involvement with science, but it is not the only one. The community which invests most in the investigations and developments in the investigations and developments of the community, two percent of our crude internal product, is understood to arrive at 1,1,1,1, million euros in 2019, according as Eustat himself receives it. And that effort has its results. The quality and importance of the research made in Eukadin has improved in 2020, and has been made in the 60-rate scientific journals of the science of Eukadical productions. If we go through all that work, the evolution of publications, we find this... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... It's done in prime scientific magazines. If we spend all that work on publications, we find this: in the last year more than 7500 scientific articles have been published, which for the past ten years have doubled the amount of publicised work. It is important to say that the euscal system of science contributes more and more. The centers who are currently engaged in a basic investigation or investigation are already involved in more than 30% of the science of Eukasia production. And all this could not be done if the fundamental contribution of the research staff, their potential, their effort and their dedication. Therefore, the research staff is configured as the key piece of these results, and therefore we continue to form a quarry of researchers. Each year it increases the number of students who have obtained their doctorate, a fact that will undoubtedly help us to remain so relevant in the field of research at the international level. In 2019, 450 people have been doctoral students at the three Basque universities, 17% more than the previous year. Our researchers in Euskadi collaborate in publishing the results of the research with the world's leading science-producing countries, such as the United States, Germany, the United Kingdom, France and Italy. The commercial scientific production internationalized nearly 20 points in the last decade. The eascal editions worked on international cooperation were 35% a year of July, and in 2020 they went up to 55%. In these international co-workers, the Eukadian investigators have an order of superiority, and in many cases they are the principal authors of publications. At this point, and after briefly describing the situation of the inquiry, we cannot understand the frequent debates and the situation of the investigators about them, for it has nothing to do with the commitment to this collective government. In the course of a year three different propositions, which have a similar content with the conditions of the investigators' work, have been accepted exactly like 43/20, 55/2021 and 93/2021. You introduced two of them to the Board of Education, and the other proposal exactly, as 93/2021, was discussed on September 29th, 2021. From the fact that the facts are repeated one after another, I must inform you, that the engagement which this government has taken with the collective investigator is firm and clear. Work conditions have three sides. On the one hand, there are conditions for work and that concerns scientific infrastructure and places. In the second place, wages and preparation. And thirdly, scientific system in its full extent. As for the first of the key elements, to say that small, medium and large scientific equipment programmes have been driven by a growing economic investment during these years, both in large singular infrastructures and the one announced around the cryogenic microscope or other infrastructure endowment plans for BRTA and the BERT network. With regard to the second, I would like to highlight the improvements that have been made in recent calls for research staff to strengthen pre-doctoral, post-doctoral and mobility programmes for medical research staff. In addition, in the next financial year, the budget for the financing of research training programmes is increased by 3.5%. These programmes will increase the number of beneficiaries in the pre-doctoral programme by 5% and 7.5% in the post-doctoral programme by 7.5%. I will be able to give you more details in my next speech. And for the third time, a big investment made in I+G+B and, above all, continuous by 6% of the year that's been setting up a Euko-Male. Thanks to this commitment, the excellence system that urges it makes it easier to be conditions for a professional wisdom which will help them to continue in the Eucharistic investigation. Moreover, by the knowledge of the excellence of the investigators, they may in the future be able to co-operate in their work with other local and international degrees, or with other higher contexts. As you can see, he's had a lot of progress from Euskka in scientific research, which shows that in the report of Euskadin 2021. I really think it's scientific or technological that we have a clear and stable policy to promote the investigation. It is on the basis of this bet that it really believes that an investment in study and development is profitable, and for a long period or a short term. Euskadi 2014-2019 has brought 851 million euros into the H202020 research projects. The modern Haazon 2020 program has become a device of key key key to The Europe, and for the investigations and innovations of the European Union. 5% of the scientific product of eupascals is also referred to patents, after having spent sufficient time from the origin of new knowledge to the application. And though we have advanced much, we still have a long way to pursue the countries most developed in the science of action. And we're conscious of it. That's why it's important to bet on the research and hold on investment in years. And this is what's going on with the science and our researchers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u61	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Ms. Saez de Egilaz, your word is... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... and that it may be so with our investigators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u62	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Ms. Saez de Egilaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u63	Thank you, Chief. I have heard your words and I must say, first, that, as we have brought them here, others have essentially been the same, but have been answered by different times. You engaged, you made a commitment to the researchers. And that wasn't true. One year, in a year's school. Next time, we brought the same story to make sure it would last the next year, and it didn't work. So what the rest of our law shows here is an important matter, and especially what they show is that we have a commitment around the researchers, and that for us, by the contribution they make to this country, it is essential that we should increase the pay of pre-addictors, but even increase the salary of the postputators. And look, Chief of the Union, I won't question you for good intentions, but good intentions don't feed them. And half of what you have said I have already forgotten half of what you have said in the first six minutes and half of what you have said; we have forgotten those good intentions. And the question is clear, are you ready to give me an increase in salary that will finally be quantum? Are you really going to take that step? You have spoken of excellence, and there will be no excellence unless there are worthy wages. What I don't understand is that it's just an engagement with researchers, when that is expressed, how does a researcher who gets 979 euros is engaged to his daily life? I can't understand how we can talk about el personal investigador es piece clave y que, ademas, somos relevantes en el ámbito internacional. "Poes también saremos relevantes en el ámbito internacional en lo precarius, porque statuses persona no businesse a cobrar 1000 euros." So, you can talk a lot about this, and you can talk a lot about science, technology, development, 2030 plans, I don't know, a thousand things that can be discussed, but what's stopping you from raising the pay of these researchers in the Eucharists? What's stopping you if you're trying to give a basic function to the research for this society? Why isn't the researchers guaranteed worthy conditions? It's a contradiction with what you're saying. It is a contradiction, and we see, as I have said before, that the process of investigation is much more difficult. Because they do not trouble themselves much in answering their everyday, they are also much more difficult to answer, for example, the perfection of the persons or young men who reach the world, for their parents must be assured of their being able to go on so much. So only the individuals who have advanced economically or economically the most capable of investigations arrive. Because these scholarships do not permit a worthy life, because the amount of money they receive does not allow a worthy life to subsist. And that's why, if it's a first thing for you to sing to me, and above all like a town, if it's a question of priority to guarantee the worthy conditions of our researchers, you have to raise wages. You said, you promised to go up to 5%. It hasn't been, but it's not enough for a 5% as well. Why, then, can't we here, if we agree with the fundamental idea, build up a firm and give certainty to all those people who are investigating our country? There is no sense in what we have heard here in the present day unless we offer a serious survey, unless we give certain assurance to our researchers, unless we tell them the world of enquiry, that if we do not inquire, all the fundamental rights will be secured, they will be worthy of wages. It is not worth what we have heard to-day, and I assure you, there may be good intentions in your words, but with them it is not enough. You need to raise your salary. And for that, you have to mark a page of the road.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u65	Ms. Saez de Egililla, as I have told you in my earlier part, is the great lines of our scientific policy that create and attract talent and encourage excellence in its application. Ikertzaileen eginkizuna funtezkoa da éta gure konpromisoa, aipatu dudan bezala, argi dago. Eta ez hitzen bidez bakarrik, baizik eta ekintzen bidez beita ére. Beast data beats. In the next financial year 2022 we will allocate €69.5 million for research policies of excellence; the largest budget we have had in our history, representing an increase of 6.03 million over the previous year. As I have already remarked, the conditions of work have three sides. Next year we'll continue to develop and improve scientific space and infrastructure and increase scientific system. The research Foundation will receive a total of 27,3 million euros financing. This is going to be the biggest contribution I've ever had until this day, and it'll make us learn about 2021-24 pieces of strategic plan. Also highlight the increase in the planned budget for scientific research infrastructures, by 16.07 %, reaching EUR 8.5 million. On the other hand, the allocation of scientific equipment will increase by 150 % to EUR 500 000 for the financial year 2022. This should also be seen as improving the working conditions of our researchers. You have spoken of the conditions of work, and I must speak of the constant and constant improvement of wages. "E el ámbroto de investigación predoctoral la convocatoria de 2019-20 recogio un incremento promeio cecano al 10%..." [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... in the field of predoctoral research the 2019-20 call collected an average increase of about 10% in the salary received by the research staff through these predoctoral contracts over four years of their duration. In addition, the possibility of extending the contract up to six years is incorporated in the case of persons with disabilities. The 2021-22 call incorporates a new line of research in education, with the aim of enhancing research in a number of strategic lines aligned with the educational sphere. The budget of the call is increased with almost 300.000 euros more regarding the two previous calls for the training of researchers. New predoctoral aid is increased by 5 %. The specific training plan contained in doctoral programmes and research abroad, which allows them to obtain the mention of an international thesis, should also be taken into account. In the field of post-doctoral research, additional aid of EUR 10,000 is provided to the beneficiary staff from call 21-22 for the first two years to reduce the economic impact of travel and stay abroad. In addition, salaries have increased by 6% for research staff in the third and final year of the programme at call 21-22. The increase over the previous two calls has been almost €300,000. In addition, the number of new call aid is increased by 7.5%. With regard to mobility programmes for doctoral research staff, since the 2019 call, a modality has been incorporated to promote the mobility of junior research staff and the financial allocations to be received by the beneficiaries for the purpose of carrying out the research stay have been increased. On the other hand, we've been promoted to finance 20% of the investment increase during the time of two callings for research groups and the expenses of RC centres. As you can see, the real actions and commitments that reveal the firm wager we make for science and our researchers. To close, then, with regard to Egila, Mrs. Saez de Egilila, thoughts, ideas, and actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u66	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask you, you know, about Martíni, together with Podemos, a member of the Antices, a member of the Board of Education, a member of the High Court of Education, in the Cectorial Conference of Childhood, about the 15th of November." Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u67	Yes, good morning. Good morning, Chief of the Union. Well, you know we're involved in a major education. And many of the agents, they are listening to to their concerns, proposals, and all their reflections about the education system. We have heard the uneasiness of various persecutions given in the schools, and the various alternatives and proposals given to it. The 2016 ISEI-IVEI data reported that one in five pupils between primary and fourth graders had received some form of peer abuse at school. Ikusmira's data also tells us that in 2018 at least 20% of primary school students acknowledged having suffered some kind of abuse. She was a cyberbullyingari bai buruz hainbat ikerketa éta datuak ere plazaratu dira. It is proposed in the Framework Plan for the Development of an Inclusive School of 2019-2022 that the Bizikasi initiative should be implemented in 100% of public schools for the previous course. According to your data, that's not given. And, well, we, on the one hand, value the vital program, but we also see the weaknesses of this program. The whole school does not work on the initiative because it also depends on the means that are available and is also conditioned on these resources and that it is not given in the whole of the Basque education system, as we think should be given. The excuse for asking this question has been nothing other than a great triumph that we have obtained as a society, which has been the adoption of the Organic Law for the Comprehensive Protection of Children and Adolescents against all forms of violence. Hemen gauden, present gauden alderdi guztiok babestu dugu lege hori. Nik you had the law bear one of her poor age bee alderdia bee bai bayestu zou bai Kongresuan eta bai Senatuan. Moreover, we do not want to enter now in case I advance, because surely I will run out of time, I advance, we do not want to enter a battle of competition, but of what we will do in Euskadi to deal with abuse in school. And in this law it is established that a plan of development must be made. This is the Ministry of the Common-wealth, that is to be found in all Common-wealths, and continents; And I'm not going in that way either, because I'm excited about that job, and also because I'm busy with it. But in this law it has been introduced that a coordinator of well-being should be established in all classes. And the right question is: What's the plan about the Dreams, your departments, those coordinators? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u68	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u69	Yes, Mrs. President of the legislature. Mr Martínez, in answer to your question, I must say that our government has made a long journey in order to protect childhood and adolescence, long before the organic law you mention was approved on the 5th of June. And he could prove it to be so. And it was evident that the Minister of the Society of the Spanish Government and of the 28th of October that the Minister of 2030th Aged, came to life and to the bases of Europe, which proceed from the mechanism of resilence, in order to promote the social projects for the following three years, when he signed a treaty with the Chief of Equality, Justice, and Society. It's on that nail... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... when he made an agreement with the chief of the equality, justice, and society of our government in order to promote social enterprises. In this Illus, I must show that the obligation of this government is to continue to promote the rights of children and teenagers, and to promote the struggle against violence, according to our jurisdiction, our government's programme, and the regulations in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u70	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u71	Yes, thank you. Well, lamba errepikatu behar said, zeren nik esan said they had ez neukala inolako intentziorik eta, well, I was probably going to answer with something competitive. The issue is not that, the issue is whether we are going to implement, say it by law or not by law, a figure of welfare coordination in the public and concerted centres of Euskadi or not. If you want to do it on the basis of your government program, great; and if you want to do it on the basis of Euskadi's future education law, which you always say you have to agree on it among all of us, we are willing to do it, I think it's a good place to do it, but I don't see much will on your part to do it, and I'm sorry. Therefore, I would like to reiterate the question.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u72	Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u73	Yeah. Martínez jauna, as I said in my previous speech, our Government already has a wide track record in the fight against violence in children and in the promotion of the rights of children and adolescents. On article 12/2006 of the Organic Law, all schools have to make a plan of living. And among activities, it is to employ skill in solving conflicts in a peaceful way, to promote the sense and formation of education community, to promote good treatment, and to resolve the workers of the college, the students, and the community of education in a peaceful way of conflict. This plan receives codes for professors, teachers, groups of teachers, and students, the behavior associated with the schools for the state of pursuit, or for any other situation that affects the life of the school, regardless of whether these situations occur in the school itself, or are given digitally or otherwise. In this context, while it is true that the Organic Act on the Protection of Children and Adolescents stipulates that all educational establishments where minors are educated, regardless of their ownership, must have a coordinator or coordinator for the welfare and protection of the student who will act under the supervision of the person who holds the direction or ownership of the centre, their functions are already in line with existing figures in our structure. In short, some of the most significant functions are these: the co-ordination of cases which require an intervention of social services, the retention of the measures which are to secure the culture of the greatest welfare and good treatment for children and teenagers, to promote respect for the students under any other circumstances of individuality or weakness. The functions of the welfare coordinator are carried out preferably by the head of equality or co-education of the centre in the educational centres of Euskadi, which is contextualized in the Bizikasi Strategy promoted by the Department of Education. This is explicitly reflected in the start-up instructions transferred to all, all educational institutions in the resolution of the Vice-Advisory of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u74	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. fourteen points in theme list: "Interra, Muriel Larre Lasoa Lasal, Populous Groups of Ciudads, members of the planetion, Housing and Transport Corps, with regard to the strategic planning of the great sub-structions of the EAE. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u75	Good morning, Mr. Councillors, Mr. Parliamentarians. Well, I've got a thought coming up. And it's that thanks to the geographical location of this land on the Atlantic axis, that is, geographically we have the luck of locating ourselves where we are located. And on top of that, we're lucky to have good infrastructure, big infrastructure for what it has to do with connecting goods on that axis. But what's going on? That although we have three airports, we have two ports of general interest, 15 ports that are already in the competence of this government, we have a train of closeness, we have Trenbide Sarea that manages what are the closeness in the Basque Country – now it will manage goods – and we also have the future arrival of high speed to the Basque Country with a mixed traffic, that is, of goods and passengers. But, of course, we've been with those, well, more or less, those infrastructures, arriving, not arriving, managing them. But there really isn't, there hasn't been any strategy to value those infrastructures. And I'll start. By land, sea and air. Let's start on the ground. On the ground, the latest news, and we've been talking lately about what high speed is in the Basque Country, how high speed is going to arrive. The last thing is that we had a chu chu train, a bidegorri, that we have just signed or that we are going to sign the management order of Zaratamo-Cantalojas, but that we have to make some administrative arrangements. Okay, okay. I mean, we don't have anything. Little. After 30 years, we have little. Next thing we know, let's talk about the sea. Port of Bilbao, port of Passages, of general interest. Well, then, what has been done from the Basque Government is to give priority to the port of Bilbao, and the port of Passages is shutting us down. It is part of the strategy followed by the Basque Government over the years. We have the 15 ports that are within our competence and, for example, that of (Ondarroa?), lack of silence, a million for... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... the 15 ports that are within our jurisdiction, and for example, that of (?)Ondarroa lack of silence, a million to fix the silence. Mutriku's has no containment dam. And if he does, we're gonna be late, because we've been out of containment for 20 years. Mal, we're late. What if we talk about (?I'm sorry, I'm back to three, I've forgotten before to say, we have Durango project, of the Durango train, what it says in the press in the latest news and I'm going to read it, is we create dialogue tables, we announce that we are going to meet, we announce that we intend to move forward, we assume the challenge, we will work for it and to... For this is what is read in the press. I mean, as far as infrastructure is concerned, the department that Mr Arriola is carrying has not always carried it, because the truth is that it has not come to a conclusion, to fill in what would be a connection of all the great infrastructures that we have in the Basque Country, which thank you that we have all those infrastructures, but we will have to do something to put them in the Atlantic axis. If we are not able to give value to what we have through the skills that are lacking here, we will be competitive at international level. This works this way, if we do not put in value, if we do not invest in maintenance, in creating leading connections with the great infrastructures of the Basque Country, in the end we are left behind, we are left behind, and now that it is up to you, Mr Arriola, I would like to know what your strategy is to put in value the great infrastructures that we have in the Basque Country so that we are internationally leading in that Atlantic Axis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Mr. Arriola is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u77	Thank you, President. Mrs Larrea, first of all, I would like to clarify one point. The concrete and correct name of the department, our department, is not the Department of Infrastructure, Housing and Transport, as stated in the text of its inquiry, but the Department of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport. I suppose it's an involuntary mistake, but I think it's necessary to record the real name of the department. On the other hand, in addition to the text of the question, I also have the custom of reading the justification accompanying the interrogations, and yours is really curious. It mentions three airports, two ports of general interest and three AVE stations. All these infrastructures of general interest, whose management, as you are well aware, is not the responsibility of this Government or at least today, but of the General Administration of the State, which is not the case. I could have chosen other examples in which we are competent, but it has not been so. It has failed to mention roads, competition from outlaws and urban crossings of municipal competition. By the way, autonomous ports are not the responsibility of my department, and this matter is the responsibility of the Department of Economic Development. It also says in the justification of the inquiry that we will soon have three AVE stations. You've been making sure for a year that we won't see these stations in decades, and today you're surprisingly telling us that we're going to have them right away. You will understand, Mrs Larrea, that it is quite difficult to keep up with you. And by the way, the Basque stations to which the high-speed train is going to arrive are not going to be three, but four: Vitoria-Gasteiz, San Sebastian, Bilbao and Ezkio. But let us focus on the content of the inquiry. First and foremost, in order to know where we move, we must take into account the competitive distribution between the different administrations, from the state to the municipal in each of the areas that integrate mobility. In this regard, the Decree of 19 January 2021 establishing the organizational and functional structure of the Department of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport, in its article 14 on the Vice-Counsel of Infrastructure and Transport, states that our department is entrusted with the design and development of the instruments for the management, coordination and coordination of transport infrastructure, as well as the formulation of transport infrastructure planning policies. Introducing this aspect, there is no doubt that the formulation of a coordinated policy among all public administrations must be done by defining a general normative provision that determines the basic normative scope with regard to the principles and objectives to be addressed in a general and integrated manner. This rule is the Euskadi Sustainable Mobility Act, which your department is developing. The preliminary draft is drafted and is in its final administrative phase, so if everything progresses according to our forecasts it will be approved by the Governing Council over the next year and immediately thereafter start its parliamentary process. The above draft, which you have been able to access at different stages through the Basque Government's website, already sets out the principles and objectives of our transport policy. In particular, it establishes the framework to promote sustainable mobility in Basque, based on active mobility, the stimulation of public transport in front of the private vehicle, the interoperability of public transport titles in an integrated intermodal system, the implementation of the approach to sustainable mobility... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... private, the interoperability of public transport titles in an integrated intermodal system, the implementation of the sustainable mobility approach, from urban planning in municipalities, and the promotion of rail transport. The drive for sustainable mobility is an inescapable goal. More so if we take into account that 18.5 million tonnes of greenhouse gases were emitted in Euskadi in 2019, and that 34.5 % of those emissions corresponded to transport. In the same year, Euskadi registered 458.6 passenger cars per 1,000 inhabitants, with a 1% increase in the vehicle fleet, where 86% are passenger cars, trucks and vans. The Sustainable Mobility Act addresses this issue and also sets out specific obligations for all administrations, including that of having an adequate sustainable mobility plan for their territory and in line with the hierarchically superior ones, in order to bring together all the efforts of our autonomous community in the same direction. In addition, the preliminary draft aims to support the rights to information of citizens in general, and is committed to an integrated, efficient, safe and inclusive transport system that respects the environment and the health of people. The new draft also covers transport taxation, opening up the possibility of using this tool and other economic policy instruments to contribute to sustainable mobility for outlaws and municipalities. This legal framework will be accompanied by the development of an autonomous sustainable mobility plan, which will establish guidelines to ensure that Euskadi's transport systems meet the economic, social and environmental needs of the territory. The development of this plan will have public participation and tools for its monitoring of public access that allow both the Administration and the citizenry to verify the fulfilment of the objectives set by the law through concrete and quantifiable actions. This is, to a large extent, our regulatory approach, which is accompanied by actions in the field of infrastructure. Actions aimed at enhancing the intermodality of the transport of people and goods from an integrated and coordinated public transport network and logistics centres, promoting territorial balance and encouraging the competitiveness of our economic fabric. We have allocated a large amount of annual resources to this, which in the next financial year will amount to EUR 365.7 million. This will enable us to tackle the actions defined in the draft budget for 2022 and to continue to make progress in modernising the Euskadi transport system. An example of this is the development of the planned railway infrastructure, which will also have an important impact on the urban improvement of different localities of Euskadi, as well as the implementation and expansion of the tram network and the intelligent electric bus in Donostia-San Sebastián and Vitoria-Gasteiz. Or the impetus to the new railway network of the Basque Country, called "Y Vasca", both within the framework of our direct competences, and through the interinstitutional cooperation formulas that favor the implementation of the high-speed line. As you see, Mrs Larrea, the Department's strategy on infrastructure and transport focuses essentially on promoting sustainable mobility, combining a clear and defined policy framework and building infrastructure that will, in practice, facilitate the achievement of these objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u78	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u79	Thank you. Well, look, Mr. Arriola, your department's strategy is clear, I've read it too, but what I'm missing is done. We have been on the subject of sustainable mobility for years, we have been on major infrastructure for a long time, the creation of large infrastructure that will generate benefits for Euskadi. But where are they? Of course, it's just that I don't come here to ask you what you have to do, what you're going to do... He knows what's going on, which is that in the end we lose years, we lose time, we lose generations and it seems that we are not coming to conclusions. And the problem is that when I ask you what your strategy – which we all already know – is to tell us what you're doing, so you're doing what you did before, the same thing. But what's going on? That in 30 years we have not reached the goal of that strategy, to complete that strategy. I understand that every time we have to generate new strategies, once those that we have already generated have been filled. But what's the problem? They feel satisfied with what they're doing, they plan, they talk. It's all good words. If it's good to have good words too. But what is the reality of what we have right now? What progress has been made? Progress has been made in the press, meetings have been announced, there is talk of sustainable mobility. Okay. Talk, you just want to talk about the skills you have. He wants to talk about the municipal powers, the powers of the outlaws. He doesn't want to talk about the rest. But you also have to coordinate, you will also have to bring, you will have to be able to negotiate and coordinate. Your partners, the government partners who support the government in which you are, have, boast that they have a good entrance to Madrid. Well, no. Well, no, because I'm referring to the results. I refer to the results. There has been for many years a certain phobia to bring relevance and infrastructure of general interest that we had here and that has given us as such, as..., I don't know, a little bit of something to join them to the rest of the infrastructure that we had here that were our competence. So, what's going on? That we get poorer, that we don't take our heads off. We don't get our heads out because, in addition, we focus on very resounding speeches in which... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ...that they were our competition. So, what's going on? That we get poorer, that we don't take our heads off. We do not take our heads out because, moreover, we focus on very resounding speeches, in which no one understands them more than you do. Of course, if they're technicians, I can understand them. But who are we addressing? If we go to society. Do you think you're... Do you think that when you speak this way the citizens of Euskadi understand you? The citizens of Euskadi what they see are they read the press, they see the news, they go to the port and there is nothing; they go to Ezkio, the fourth high-speed station, and there is nothing. This is what's going on. This is the reality. And I understand that you want and have to... come here and come to explain to us what your apartment does and come to explain to us the good name of your apartment, what is it called (strictly?)). But it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, because what matters is the facts, and of those there are few. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u81	Mrs Larrea, I come here to explain what you ask me, no more or less. I do not know what motion you will have prepared as a result of this inquiry, and that you will certainly have it, well, we will see it soon. I believe that in my first speech I have been very clear about our mobility objectives and the instruments on which we rely to implement them. But I can be, if you want, more precise. We are working to achieve a sustainable, efficient, accessible and affordable public transport system for all citizens in Euskadi, because we believe that all people, especially those with fewer resources, have the right to have quality public transport and to meet their needs. And, in this regard, we are making an important effort to promote both an adequate regulatory framework and the construction of new and better railway infrastructure, trains, trams, metros, etc., both passengers and goods. And we are convinced that this legislature will be fruitful in this area. But allow me to open a parenthesis before derailing the projects in which we are immersed. Because every time he can his party – today he did it in the exhibition of his interpellation, although he has not done it in the rostrum – brings out the topic of air transport in Euskadi. But it is always obvious the same thing, that is, as you know, the three Basque airports are not the competence of this Government; they are the competence of the Government of Spain, which manages them through AENA, because they are infrastructures of general interest. And yet, our department is very present and actively participates in the drive of Basque terminals, especially those of Foronda and Hondarribia, because we are integrated in their promotional societies. And, in fact, in the Budgets of the year 22 there is an item of 350.000 euros destined for the Society of Ortzibia Promotion for the airport of Hondarribia and another of 825,000 euros for the Society of Promotion of the airport of Foronda, complying with the agreements adopted in 2020 within the board of directors of VIA. We also collaborate with the Bilbao Chamber of Commerce and we have planned an economic item of 72,600 euros for the study, design and implementation of a methodological tool that measures the overall impact of air connectivity on the socio-economic activity of Euskadi. In short, we are committed to the operation of airports as well and their improvement, and for that we use the tools at our disposal within the competitive framework that belongs to us. And in the light of this competitive framework, and as I have already pointed out, our activity focuses on the improvement, updating and provision of new railway lines for the transport of passengers and goods in the Basque Country. And, in this sense, we are immersed in large-scale projects. To cite some of them, the underground intern of the mole in Donostia-San Sebastián or the new stretch between Altza and Galtzarabora, the tram extensions of Salburua and Zabalgana in Vitoria Gasteiz and the commissioning of the intelligent electric bus in the Gasteiztarra capital. Also the closing of the tram ring in Bilbao and its extension to Bolueta and Zorrozaurre. Not to forget the impulse to the transport of goods and its connection to ports and logistic centers, the improvements of the current railway network with the elimination of the steps to level and the modernization of the stations and of course the management commission that enables us to carry out part of the works of the high speed train in our territory and that soon, as you know, will extend to the accesses of Bilbao and Vitoria-Gasteiz. All these projects and many others at different stages of implementation and processing form part of a public mobility strategy based on intermodality, sustainability, accessibility and efficiency, which puts the rights of Basque citizens in terms of transport and their needs at the heart of the equation. Do we have much to go on? In fact, we have a long way to go. But the effort we are making is undeniable and I sincerely believe, Mrs Larrea, that we are on the right track. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u82	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 15th point in the theme list: "I'm asking you, Laura Garrido Knörr Euscal, the popular team of the Ciudads, a member of the Medical Department, a program to call the women born in '70s late to detect cancer early." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u83	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. The chief of the department. Chief health department. The early detection program for breast cancer is targeted at women between 50 and 69 years of age in Euskadi and allows for early detection of these types of tumors. And it has drawn our attention, Madam Counsellor, that women born in the year 1970, among which I am included, have not been called or have not been called, and those we have fulfilled at the end of the year at the moment have not been called. So, we want to know what the reasons are... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... We have not been called or have not been called, and those that we fulfill at the end of the year at the moment have not been called. So, we want to know what are the reasons for the delay in calling on women born in 1970 to screen the early detection program for breast cancer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u84	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Ms. apple is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u85	Legebiltzarreko andrea president, eskerrik asko. Mrs Garrido clarify that we have not left out the screening program to the women who were included in it, because that is what seemed to suggest the justification of the question, that is not so, as you know, because we have all experienced it, within three months will be two years from the interruption of the pandemic in our lives and after this time we have not managed to normalize our social life and health care services continue to take care of infected people while they are recovering the normal pace of their activity. We have always said that, unless urgent, the rest of Osakidetza's activity has been delayed, including this and other screenings. Now we are... we have been resuming that normality for months and recovering the lost time, but don't worry, the process of quoting people who have turned 50 is already underway, for example, in Araba, since you were interested in the presentation of the budget by the department, the women who were born between 1970 and 1971 are being progressively cited since November 5.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Appledui, Mrs Garrido is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u87	Well, I'm glad, Counselor, if the object of my question was in the end that you started calling women, but we were late. I can be sympathetic to the situation arising from the need to adjust or reorganize the health activity, but we are talking about a very important program that marks a before and after in the early detection of this type of tumors, by the way, the most frequent and the most malignant among Basque women, and marks a before and after also between surviving and not. Because of the delay, many Basque women have not been able to be detected in time with the consequences. I want to tell you that to the extent that women born in 1970 have not been called to the program, they will be included, but it is as if they were not included. And I want to remind you that many of these women, including myself, had to have been called in the course of 2020, that is, when we turned 50, this year we turned 51. Next year, in 2022, many of these women are going to meet or we are going to turn 52, and this first call is going to be joined by the second call, because as you well know and obviously know as Health Advisor, the call is going to take place every two years, so it is going to accumulate. I mean, I think this deserves an explanation. That the delay is not as punctual as you made us see today in your explanation. I am glad that you have started calling women in November, but you will also recognise that it is starting to call, if so, women who have turned 50 in 2020, who are many of the months January, February and so on, so we are going to lead to a significant delay. I would like to go beyond the good news in quotes, even if it is late, Madam Counsellor, that the appeal to women born in 1970 is resumed and that you have acknowledged here that they have not been called, how the appeal will be speeded up and the delay will be filled to women who are already 51 years old or have completed this year. What means will be articulated once, in quotes, the planned and non-urgent care activity, as you have told us, has been able to normalize or resume. I imagine that you will be considering arbitrating additional resources to recover the lost time, because I tell you, we are facing a very important program, we are talking about detecting these tumors in initial stages that can mark a before and a after in the evolution of the disease itself, even in surviving or not, surviving when I have emphasized that it is one of the most malignant and frequent tumors among Basque women.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u88	Thank you, Mrs Garridio, Mrs. Apple. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u89	Mrs Garrido first of all to indicate that Osakidetza has not started calling or not calling the women of 70 and 71 according to her question, but that already within her screening organization, she has called where she intended to call, which at all times, as I have already explained, has been restoring normality. Nor is it how you explain the call made with months. Standardized appeals in screenings carry another type of organization, prioritizing also according to other elements those groups of women who may have higher risk and incidence due to family history, for example, if they are likely to suffer from breast cancer, unfortunately. And this was done because the priority was given to sending appointments to women pending mid-term checks at six and twelve months, who had already been called earlier following the deadline set for this. And also, after the prioritization of women between 40 and 49 with a background, as mentioned, important family members to be able to prioritize their analysis. In addition, the measures taken to alleviate the delays are also opening up new shifts in the afternoons and Saturdays. Optimization of the citation system has also prioritized women at higher risk, as I have already explained, and has kept women without giving up by age until completing their last study, because there were some who had completed the last... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... the most at-risk women, as I have already explained, and have kept women without giving up by age until completing their last study, because there were some who had completed the last one in that pandemic time. Breast cancer screening is undoubtedly one of our priorities in the prevention of this disease, as we explained in the presentation of budgets; and in which we will invest 4.9 million euros in the renewal of mammographs. Mammographers with new techniques such as tomosynthesis, much more accurate for the diagnosis of breast cancer. We have lost a few months of work, as we have lost a few months in many of our aspects of our life, but I assure you that we are recovering them quickly, and we will also do so with even greater precision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The 16th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Reformation, Rebeka Ubera Aranz, and EH Collectations to the head physician of the Medical Department, about the strategy which has developed in the new phase of the Pandemade to face the state of health." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u91	Good morning, chief physician. Are you sure this is a good strategy to face the new stage of panic?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u93	Mrs. Ubera, Mrs. President of the legislature. First of all, thank you. I must confess, I have read with pleasure the justification of your question. I agree with the analysis that is made here with pleasure, and I agree that, although we are in the new stage, pandemia is not finished, nor that covida has disappeared. That first. In words, you say: "The public system of health must be adapted to this new state. In addition to giving attention to the public's global health, you say that, apart from the prevention of health, and listening to the appearance of appearances with other potential infections, one must continue to watch over the regeneration. Thank you for your attention to global health... "To promote health, to follow prevention, and to accept that we are waiting for other patients. Yes, we do all this, and, as the first President has said, the institutional agreement in the hospital is in force as we go along, and, as you know, we're getting prevaricious measures arranged every day according to circumstances. A lot of thieves.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u95	Mrs. cider, you don't answer me if it's right, but, well, you'll answer me for the second round. It's true that the insertion level is extremely good, it's as if it were to say that there were nine of the population. Our context has nothing to do with Germany, Austria, or Europe. That doesn't even mean we need to relax. You ought to have played with the same amount of responsibility as the village people have in their grafts, if people have been careful to answer that grade of responsibility. And therefore let us proceed to establish measures of prevention based on scientific evidence, and not to impose any further restrictions on it. Let's go read the contents of the context. Let us go to base and apply what we have learned in scientific evidence, and not to predict the measures of strengthening the measures which have no foundation, and of fearing the people. For example, the use of the mask in the street is not supported in scientific evidence, it does not account for health criteria. You know that the covid passport has no guarantee 100 percent and it's no panacea, it's another tool. There's not only one measure that's 100 percent guaranteed. Our complexity demands that we behave more complexly than the headlines. Above all, the enclosed space, requires strength to become more certain in proportion, and custom to change. It was a few months ago that we also needed additional measures besides the vaccination. But no, instead of that, the prevention structures have grown thinner for the last few months, the browsers, technicians or nurses, and the savings will be the default for the last few months. We also asked to meet the Medical Department strategy in front of the new phase, and we asked for a show. Today's the day we don't know exactly what this strategy is, Mrs. Cedui. But we know that our problem with public health system is not only COVID-19. We're looking at lack of prevision, want of arrangement, difficulty of managing, little ability, repeated past defects, etc., etc. Do you know what we need, Miss Chief? We need the Medical Department to make decisions based on scientific evidence, so we need to make sure the Medical Department decides and arranges with the public health educology. A solid structure that will take care of COVID-19, so that Osaform, especially primary attention, should be taken care of. Because everything is not COVID-19, we have so many diseases. We need a thorough reorganization, we need to change our decisions, we need to change our choices. It's time to start treating professional healths with proper conditions for work.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u97	Thank you. Look, I was still glad when you started talking, when you said you shouldn't relax. But, excuse me, how many weeks have I been saying that? I've said the same thing all the time. When others have said that we were punishing the people and all this, forgive them; while I have said and said that prudence is necessary, and that it is necessary to maintain its measures. And who do you think we're making these decisions? That this chief of the department is taking it with himself? No, we take them with our professionals, and they're intermeologists. Maybe you don't listen to what you know, but yes, Mrs. Ubera. Yeah. He takes it with the epidemicologists, whether he likes it or not, because they're our professionals. And with these and those who know about infections and hospital managers and workers, we take them together... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... and those who know about infections and hospital managers and workers we take with them, whether or not they're yours. On the other hand, I really proved scientificly. Your rating is that there is no efficiency of the kiss, your rating is that it doesn't match any other scientists. But, on the other hand, I would be grateful to you for making propositions from this kind of science. Science. I don't know, because what you've brought so far hasn't been based on science, you can forgive me. But I'll answer you now, as well as what you said, because the third dose of a third dose between the exact measures of resistance to this wave is of great importance. And next Monday to insert people over 60, we'll start giving appointments. It's common to call the Osarists' websites or the medical centres. On Monday we will start making appointments to people over 60 years of age to administer the booster dose or third dose. For this we will use the Osakidetza website and the call to health centers; one of the measures, no doubt, most effective in the fight against the covid. And, with regard to children between the ages of five and 12, the date and amount of vaccine that will arrive is not yet known, because the purchase is made for the whole of the European Union, as you know, and we depend on the availability of the laboratories that manufacture it. And, on the other hand, the Inter-Territorial Council bodies have not yet addressed the strategy to carry out this vaccination, no doubt one of the main tools. And from there, remember, there are some villages.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u98	Thank you, chief physician. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interrection, Lore Martinez Axpe, the parliamentary members of the EH Collectations to the Chief of Equality, Justice, and Society, concerning the use of the digital technology made by the children and minors of the Basque Autonomy Erdigo." Mrs. Axpa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. And good morning to all. Good morning, Mrs Artola generous. We've often mentioned digital technology in this legislature in everyday life (... That's really important, isn't it? The benefits and damages they have from digital technology have become primary objects of concern for the influence of society. OMEK, the World Organization of Health, has at the present time accepted the attention of game and video games as a dependency without substance. And as for the internet and social networks, they are not at the moment addictive, but they are referred to as problematical use. And the discussion is on the street. The effects of technology published by Unicef during the week of adolescence, reading relationships, risks, and options, we can see real troubling facts. Not knowing the dangers that are dangerous, and the lack of moderation for the prevention of these dangers, exposes many teenagers. Some data has been mentioned. It's mentioned. It's state data. It's only the 23 PR schools in Basque Erlaborium that participated. It's about 4,18 years old, about 4,500 teenagers. It would be good to have the accuracy of Euscal's Erlaboric data to be a real photograph of the use of Internet and social networks and take measures. I'll mention some facts. One of the three teenagers has problematical internet usage. The sample, the report sample was made with two million teenagers. And of these two millions, 600 teenagers have a problem with the Internet. In this Euscali firm, it would be well to know how many millions of them will be. One fifth might already have dependence on video games. Fifteen percent of the teenagers have symptoms of serious, rather serious depression. It was registered on a social network 98%. And with all the problems he can look for there, grooming, sextorium, sextinga, cyberjing, and so forth. On the mobile phone, six out of ten sleep with the cell phone. And from five to five, one comes by night. Around video games, he's got six video games since the 10-year-old, spending time and time. And 50% plays a game that doesn't belong to his age. And in all these dangers there is a remarkable data: 29,1% of the teenages mentioned and confessed that their parents don't impose any rules on the internet. And we jump from America to America. If the facts I have mentioned are disturbing, and in the 5th of October, the former Frances Hauge's Facebook workers are also extremely troubling and grave in the United States of America's Senate. I don't know if you heard them, but it would be nice to hear them. To take consciousness of the consequences of using digital technology. It's a real polling scene. And there they are mentioned, and the senators of different colours questioned him, and he was one of the questions: Can Facebook find its platform in the mental health of children and teenagers, if it has negative consequences in its well-being? And his answer was that many of the research and reports on Facebook have confirmed that Facebook has serious negative effects of children and teenagers that Facebook knows how to adapt her algorithms to attract more people, even though they go against people's welfare. And Facebook is not the social network used by kids and teenagers. But Instagram did. And the statements he made about Instagram are not even the midnight cough of the goat. 13% of the teenage girls in Instagram, he'd been thinking about suicide. Contacted the old Unicefet report. And around Instagram he said the algorithms were pumped, disinformation, and hatred, existing... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... and around Instagram he said that the algorithms encouraged pollen, disinformation, and hatred, to maintain that 99% of existing violent relations should remain uncontrolled. He even said the nutrient about the embarrassment of the gate. Facebook should have created Instagram Kids, but it wasn't caused by a toxic report. And what's the purpose of the Platforms? I'm gonna make a viral platform. More and more time to keep the algorithm on the social network. And no matter how many teenagers lead the well-being along the road, they don't care. More and more time in the Instagrams, more money in the pockets of the owners of platforms. Digital technology is safe, responsible, must also be critical, or should be. And I ask a few questions. Do kids and teenagers know how to criticize the information they get from their eyes every day? We use recommendations almost every day to inform, to buy, to find new songs, to find couples, to search for jobs, to influence the recommendations they receive on those systems? Are they manipulated under certain interests or is the decision of teenagers at all times free? How far does artificial intelligence adapt itself to our behaviour, character, and thought? A lot of questions. Kids and teenagers can't just leave them in front of all this. If we want to be safe, responsible, critical native, it is essential that the parents should be digital companions in order to adapt themselves to the digital environment. And we've seen the data. Only 29% of the teenagers confessed that their parents set proportions or regulations on the internet. We can't let kids and teenagers wander around the digital environment, wander about in inertia, we can't let them be digital native native narceries. And for this purpose, parents must have consciousness and preparation in the digital environment, which they do not now possess, at least according to the data. Kids and teenagers need digital natives, but we need safe, careful, critical natives, to keep the Basque society safe in the digital environment too. And to guarantee this is to this government. And what's EAE doing? In September, occupied with the use of digital technology, we demanded the study of the use of mobile phones, that schools should have a solid basis around the use of mobile phones. for we see that there is a great deficiency, and also a considerable deficiency, and a considerable consequence. But you threw him back at the Board of Education. I've seen you've got the Program, and I've seen you've also got prizes on social network risks. I've seen some tapes and they're very creative and they're fine. And there's also social networks and Internet documentation. It must be said that he is old-fashioned too. And beyond this, and in front of this disquieting landscape we have, I want to ask you, Miss Artola generous. So, what size's RedMork taking kids and teenagers to be sure, responsible, critical use of digital technology?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Axpe. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u101	The head of the table, members of the legislature, all good days. Eskerrik asko, Mrs Martinez Axpe, for your question, because we have the same concern and we have that concern. We're very worried about the use of our children doing digital technology. I care about her as a mother, and she cares about us as a department of equality, justice, and society. It's been years since we've been fostered by minors to secure the use of technology. You asked me what measures the Basque Government is going to take and what we are doing. The Basque Government. Since 2015, he has published the first pedagogical guide to work on education in new technologies. This guide promoted the responsible preventive and educational use of new technologies, and was addressed to ESO faculty. In 2016, another guide was worked on and published for parents this time. Their goal was to train, train and inform so that we can educate our children. Gida hori esker garapen etiko, morala bermatzek ikasketak egin daitezke tecnologiak modu seguru éta arduratsuan eabili ditzaten helburuarekin. Then, we worked from the Directorate of Families and Children with the Basque School of Sport, with the sports directorates and with the three outlaws, and a third guide was prepared aimed at the sports environments. And every year we've been participating, as you know, in Safer Internet Day. We organize an annual competition in which children's groups hold a critical and constructive reflection on their use and the use of new digital technologies. With the reflection work, videos are formed that enter a contest. And all those materials, as you said, and that information can be accessed on the Zeuk Esan Web site, 116111. And it is that from the Zeuk Esan we will attend, and we will attend, to minors who are already experiencing a situation complicated by the inappropriate use of new technologies. We're clear that the Internet has multiple options, but we know it can also cause risks. It may be a great tool for communication and information, and an improper use may produce a site where the expression of violence can produce it. Unicef's report shows that we live in a more and more connected society, where the internet and social network take a larger protagonism. Technology... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ...that we live in which the internet and the social network take more protagonism. Technology is becoming more and more affordable, and in addition, it continues to evolve dizzyingly. And anyone can access the Internet through our mobile phone. The age at which the first mobile with Internet access is acquired also continues to fall. Presakuntza age information gehiago behar da bai ikastetxeetatik age bai gurasoetatik. And training is needed in educational spaces that can ensure good interaction. We have worked and are working with families, with expert people, with teachers, with entities linked to children, sharing a common reflection. We start from the basis that digital and technological spaces are not a kind of digital and global public square. Because when our sons and daughters play in the street, in the neighborhood or in the square, we always tell them how to protect themselves and how to take care of themselves, don't we? Nora joan daitezkeen eta nora ez erakusten diegu. Erbakitzen dugu zein adintan joan ahal izango direen konpainiarik gabe. And we know how to transmit this care because we also receive it from our parents or from the people who took care of us. With the new technologies, our sons and daughters also need that same accompaniment, and you can opt for a total restriction of use or, on the contrary, for letting use without restriction. An alternative may be based on more authoritarian education, and the other extreme may be based on too permissive education. The decision is in the families, and almost always in the middle point is the virtue. We have to teach them to have their own autonomy, so did you. Intermediate terms are the key to an improved educational experience, for a better experience. Eusko Jaurlaritzaren gien dídez, laguntza seguro étare eman nahi izán da, gasteek esperentizia horiek modu seguroan Aztertu éta haietatik ikasteko aukera izán dezaten. With the Government's guides, what we are doing, or the Government is looking for, there to be a safe and free accompaniment so that young people can explore and learn from those experiences in a safe way. These materials try to leave some clear ideas about the risks that exist behind these digital tools and how to use them safely. Then, it is also up to us to trust the judgment and ability of our children to live positive experiences and share them. You said it. Phishing, cyberbullying, grooming, sexting or sexting are terms that, unfortunately, we hear more and more every day, and are not exclusive to Euskadi, but are global phenomena. It is the dangers, the risks between those who navigate our children and children when they enter the digital spaces, and we have to warn them and prepare them to recognize and cope with these situations. Inform, train, train minors and families and educational agents is key, as you said, to accompany you in walking positive in the use we make of technologies. And at this moment we continue to expand and update pedagogical content. Digital technologies are evolving very rapidly and we need to pay attention to detecting these new risks. We have to permanently adapt our content to deal with the changing dangers of social networks. And with the collaboration of a group of experts, we are currently developing new guides for families. We are also working for age ranges, and we are preparing new guides from birth or early childhood to adolescence. The work being developed is based on the publication in early 2022 of new updated guides for families on new technologies and the use of social networks. Advice to take care of the first relationships between boys and girls and new technologies. Thirdly, an analysis of the different social networks and applications that can be made and used according to the ages of children and adolescents. Know the safety guidelines for the use of these new technologies. Information in the legal section, and also display tools for family use. New avenues that arise from a positive, educational and practical perspective. And our guides what they claim to be are that they serve families to acquire those skills, those digital capabilities that they can implement in the upbringing of their children. And as you see, Mrs Martinez Axpe, we maintain that an involvement, for many years now, in the face of the risks of inappropriate use of digital technologies, because it has been worrying us for a long time. IV. To assist the families with these teams. The 4th axis of the plan is located. The purpose of this plan is to promote the welfare of children and teenagers. In like manner, we receive the right of using the technology of information and information and communication in the future of the rights of children and teenagers. The future law, as I said, will also promote awareness-raising and awareness-raising initiatives, as well as measures to prevent, detect and care for mental health disorders, problematic behaviours and addictions. And as you know, we are also working on the elaboration of a... and in addition to participatively, of the Basque strategy against violence against children and adolescents. And in this strategy, it is also planned to address the problems that may arise from inappropriate use of digital technologies. Therefore, we are moving you, Mrs Martinez Axpe, who has been working for years since the government, and we are still working, on an issue that concerns both you and me.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. Martinez Axpe, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous, for your explanation. Thank you, Mr. President. And don't worry, I'm Axpe too. Mom will be happy to hear Axpe. Well, in point of fact, I'm glad you're doing things. I've already told you that I entered the website and that it was old-fashioned material, 2013, and... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] You tell me I went into the website and that it was old-fashioned stuff that hadn't been today since 2013 and 2016. And that's good to-day, but it's my concern if you don't, like a parent, if you're not conscious of the benefits and losses on the internet or the damages you don't get into a website like that. So first, and then that's where we saw the data, 29% of the time, it doesn't take steps. What they do is give me tabletes, mobile phones, without any rule, they're digital thoughts... No, no, no. Sorry, they're not digital natives. What does the digital native mean? Use Internet and social networks anyway? We need what I've told you, responsible digital native, safe and critical. And for that purpose, my parents should be a digital companion, which I was saying before, it is absolutely cruel. It must be yes or yes. But clar, they must be aware of it. And most parents don't have it. Only 29,1s. Then we've got work to do there. When you said Safer Internet Day, I saw the videos, in fact, some of them with a lot of creativity and so on, and they're fine. And many of the evils that are there in the social nets are displayed and they serve to learn. But, klar, that's what some schools do. It's optional. If the teacher is aware of it, they participate in those prizes. They don't participate otherwise. And children, children, or children, become conscious, learn. And all the other children, all the other children, how do they stop? They don't deepen those social media damages. Then it's necessary that there should be an integral plan or something more integrated that will take all the children and children, so everyone can participate in them. More. What I was saying, kids and teenagers must be digitally qualified to profit from all benefits and detect the dangers that digital technology has brought, identify, and overcome. Maybe it's not interesting what I'm saying, but I don't know. Responsible, responsible, responsible, to act as if they were doing it in physical reality. And let the critics not accept everything as it is, so ask their own minds when they are sailing. Now you haven't said much in front of criticism. If you could say something else, because it's important that teenagers have to get their worth and principles and prior to other people's interests. And you have to show them how to do this. They won't learn by themselves. And you've mentioned another thing, even the atheist who called me, when you said that you'll make technology and internet and all that stuff imperfect. I think digital technology should serve to improve human life, a strong and deep reflection about technology is missing in the company of euscal, and that it's time to imagine the future Basque society and to define the presence and use of technology. After all, technology has to be a resource and not something that shouldn't be. We have to use it well for some purposes. To finish up, there's nothing that kids and teenagers have to train and protect in a digital environment that's a responsibility to us all and we have a great challenge ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez Axpe. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u105	Thank you, ma'am. To me, Mrs Martinez Axpe, it seems very interesting to me that you have brought the subject to this plenary session. I think it is a concern that all the groups in this House have, that the Government also has it, that we have been working on this issue for a long time and that, of course, all those contributions that any group in this House is sending us will be welcome, because I believe that we all have the same end. As I said in the first intervention we talked about informing, training, training minors, families, educational agents, because I think it is essential to be able to make an appropriate use of a tool that comes to help us and that I think it is also a tool that, at this moment, we would be unable to live without it. But it is true that it has those risks that we have to take into account to tackle. Digital technologies will be more or less secure, also depending on the use that people make. And its security, therefore, has to do with the intentions, the needs, the tastes, the reactions and also the ways of understanding the lives of each of the people who use these new technologies, more or less like what happens in life itself. So asking us if new technologies are safe will be like asking us if a city is safe. Real life has many interactions. We are constantly interacting between people and, for good or for bad, sometimes situations arise that we have to adjust and that we have to control or that we have to take steps so that we do not, in the end, harm ourselves. The Internet, in that sense, is a good mirror of what happens in life. And, therefore, if we want to protect our sons and daughters, we must ask ourselves, at least from my point of view, how we prepare our sons and daughters for that new life, for that use of that new tool. And in the UNICEF report that you mentioned, according to the data analyzed, it drew attention to the lack of supervision by parents of the use of their children's screens. And this can be because families are not aware or are not aware of the accompanying work that these children need or because they do not know how to do so, because sometimes it is also true that they do not know. As in any area... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... let us be aware, or not be aware, of the accompanying work that these sons and daughters need, or because they do not know how to do so, because sometimes it is also true that they do not know. As in any area, we can only move safely and confidently if we know the tools we use. And with the Internet, something similar happens to us. The more we advance in your knowledge, the safer we will open the doors so that we find ourselves on the right path. And from this perspective it is from where the Government is working and developing and implementing for this promotion of the safe use of the Internet. The initiatives we have developed, and we are developing, are a clear example of them. He said: the future law, the Children's Act, will address this issue, because it is relevant to us; the strategy of violence against the family, against the family, not towards children; the Fifth Family Support Plan; the Zeuk Esan Service; and also the Aukerak Suspertzen programme itself. They know that, during the pandemic, we launched this program that aimed not only to help students to carry out these tasks in their homes, when they were confined, but it was also a service, and it has been a useful service, for their families to acquire these digital skills to accompany their children in digital technologies. The keys given in the report say that families need the tools and support needed to carry out such educational work. And, as you can see, I believe we are and continue in that task. You are talking about the education system, and you are also addressing this issue in Euskadi. I believe that children and girls and adolescents must be trained so that we can act in a proper way. And also, which I believe we are working on, they urge the institutions to have measures, protection mechanisms... And well, I believe that the law, which in 2023 I hope will be able to reach this House, will be a fundamental strategy. We are fully aligned in that it is the recommendations that Unicef makes, and I really believe that we have been working a long time, and I hope that also from his group those contributions that can bring us, to improve on such an important and relevant issue, will be placed in those amendments that in the future can move us to the Children's Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-26.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at twelve-and-twenty.
