ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u0	Good morning, everyone. Let's start the entire meeting. Before we start, I have to tell you that the eighth point is left for another. First point in theme list: "The question is, that the members of the legislatures of the Society of Equality, Justice, and Polylytic Society are members of Leixus the Arrivalga Arruzia Eubertarian Abricants, with regard to the actions which the UN Women are to be developed under the scope of the "Eternal Generation" organization. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. Chief of Artolally Department, last December 19, New Year's Dreams in the World of the Womans of Beijing. He celebrated the 25th anniversary of the conference. In this ceremony, the inheritance of the struggle for women's rights was placed on the table, where they were to transmit generation to generation. UN Women, on the occasion of this 25th anniversary, has launched the "Equality Generation: for Women's Rights and an Egalitarian Future" initiative, where it is bringing together the next generations of women's rights activists with women advocates and visionaries who were indispensable to the creation of the Beijing Platform for Action, the most important global agenda adopted for women's rights and empowerment. What will your section have to do within the scope of this enterprise?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. You're welcome to answer the phone, ma'am. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u3	The head of the table, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, all good days. Eskerrik asko, Arrizabalaga andrea, Generation Equality ekimena Eusko Legebiltzarrera ekartzeko aukeragatik. Generation Equality is a project designed by UN Women to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the Fourth World Conference of Women in Beijing. Its main objective is that the equality chain, in which Beijing was a major milestone, should not be broken. Their challenge is that the legacy of those women be collected by the new generations as a way of ensuring the advancement of equality in the future. It aims to bring together the next generations of women's rights activists with people who played a key role in the creation of the Beijing Platform. As you know, the Beijing conference was a road map that Emakunde promoted in Basque society and its institutions. Since then, every strategic decision that has been made in the field of equality in our country has been consistent with the progress of equality in the international context. A totally necessary international alignment, since when we talk about inequality, about violence against women, we are talking about a problem at the global level that, although manifested in different degrees and ways, has the same origin and therefore needs similar answers. In Euskadi, with the impetus of Emakunde, we want to take advantage of the framework that Generation Equality offers us to take a step further as a country in our commitment to equality. And in that international framework we want to generate something important: a social and citizen pact for equality and against macho violence in Euskadi. Equality is a teamwork. No one can stay out of this commitment. That is why, from Equality, Justice and Social Policies of the Basque Government, we are calling on all Basque social actors to take a step further in their commitment to equality. We will make available to them the methodological tools that Generation Equality offers us. This methodology has already been tested in Euskadi. Emakunde has adapted it to our reality through a process of work with the associations of its consultative commission and also with representatives of the Basque Youth Council. We will propose to the various actors a route based on the Beijing principles so that they can make an internal diagnosis of progress on equality in their field or institution during the last 25 years, and they will be able to visualize the progress to which they commit themselves in the future. Generation Equality aukera bat izango da euskal gizzarte-eragile guztiek berdintasunaren aldeko konpromisoa erakusteko eta berdintasunaren theirpena bizkortzea ahalbidetuk duten dyamikak sortzeko. We will communicate this initiative in an event that will be held on April 26th, to which from Emakunde has been invited to the administrations, to representatives of civil society, collectives... , in which we will detail this methodology. It will be the seed of a treaty, which we think necessary, because the engagement to the equality of the eucalyptus society will be a new step. We would also like to see the complicity and involvement of the groups in this Parliament. In the field of equality there is still a world to be transformed, but we must rely on what has been achieved and what has been learned along the way. Only through this transmission from generation to generation can we continue to take firm steps towards an egalitarian society. That is why, from the Basque Government, through the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy, and from Emakunde, we will be promoting this initiative, because we want the new generation to be the generation of equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Second point on the subject list: "To ask, the members of the legislatures of the Maddalen Irina Irina, the President, in order to answer to this condition of panic." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u5	Thank you, Mrs. President. Mr. President, good morning. Good morning, everyone. I won't repeat the data of the last few days, Mr. President, because you know them too much, but please don't repeat that the blame is that of the people, that the guilt is that of the people; and I'll ask you for some order and some consistency. It's a very important situation, because covida's independence is high. These are the words of the apple lady, and I think they agree with the situation we live in. Jonan Fernandez in the art firm suggests something else, and you say it's a serious situation, but nothing has to change right now. Le dije anes de Semana Santa, señor Ukullu, que genete necesita comunicanción clara, medicas claras, menpsa clarros, coheentes y comprensibles, y esto no se entiende, and people are angry at not understanding what they see. But because he sees the distance between what is done and what is said, and the restrictions to protect the people, but only the restrictions are not enough. And so people don't let anything happen to the texts of insertion or people won't let it pass by economic consequences that are being this crisis, and they're serious. And if you went through the door this morning, you'd see again the workers of Tubacex, who have been out of work, and that's how thousands of other employees are. If you like, show me again the New II Plan II with great faith, but I will ask you again to this Goddemia, which we are sufficiently responding to, because the data is different from the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u7	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. Does anyone think any ruler in the world can answer this question, Mrs. Irart? Any ruler in the world has difficulty, and will have a right to answer this pandemy, which is unknown to us. We must face new challenges and unexpected problems. Mrs Iriarte, we are working on learning by analysing all international practices, making decisions that vary according to the incidence of the various variants. In the same way as in Germany, France, Italy, Austria, the United Kingdom or China, Taiwan, South Korea or New Zealand, by references used, decisions are taken which amend the previous ones. Is there anyone who thinks he has absolute certainty? There's no absolute certainty. And at each meeting, professionals from various disciplines and policy makers wonder what we can improve, and we find room for improvement every day. In this sense, Madame Irryrez, yes, the answer to the pandermie is as proper as possible, and the best thing to do is to improve every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u9	Thanks again. Urkullu jauna, urtebete passes the pandemic-egoera Honetan wallowed guadenetik, age ez dogu loru ezer iraultzea. And the institutional response has been a succession of tangles and a kind of finger-crossing to make this happen quickly, a year of improvisations and waves that trap us one after another. No structural change or response that has gone beyond restricting or blaming citizens. Look, get out on the street, get on the line at the pharmacy or the butcher's line, or sit on a terrace and listen to people; because people are angry, angry. You don't listen, you don't hear, you underestimate your contributions. Or, in front of the contributions, silence, silencio administration. It's all right, all right. The question is, how we can protect people and what resources and what resources we have, and, dede luego, you don't agree in your government. And what has been said of the imaginary end of the alarm state of Pedro Sánche, shows in a very crude manner the situation in which the inhabitants of the South of the Basque Country are in, in what condition of dependence. It is so profound, so profound, though paradoxical, that we do not find or find very few solutions to this exceptional and manufacturing central measure. I think that llegó a definition este statuso de alarm como un 155 encubito, y yo le doy la ration. "Pero este es el panomara que tenemos." And the Vice President is the first to agree with you, who now says in a paper of writing, from his comfort. Yes, from there on around the independent instruments or the right to decide, nothing. And, politically, the dispute about the end of the alarm is, when we shall be able to receive the measures which alarm occasions make, and all the rest without waiting for Madrid. If you think that this people ought to be independent, if you think it requires independent instruments, how can you explain them to the people if you agree with those who deny it? If we need independent tools, we're ready to do that. I want to know beyond the speeches you're prepared for.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Iriarte, have your colleagues in the Congress of Deputies not voted in favour of extending the state of alarm? You, what town do you think I live in? You, in which town do you think my relatives, my relatives, each of the counselors, counselors, or their relatives and relatives live? And if we were to live in a bubble not to know what the people think or what the people feel, don't you think we don't come here every week to hear all the things we hear? Look, before this pandemy, I will remember the contributions we received this long year: No election, no re-election, all families come home, every economic activity, business and industry shut down, but later hosts, later ones, later ones, then later ones, you stop your previous education, stop your movement and your transport, cancel all business and culture and sports activities. Go home, shut it up, stop it, stop it, stop it, stop it, and that's the proposition. Our strategy was different. try to maintain the balance by enabling health attention and helping those who are most needed. We have accepted the covid-fusion of 1,300 billion euros, 30 million in trade, 33 million in tourism, or 225 million in education to strengthen resources. We've invested 100 million in the Gabe program. Whatever the circumstances may be, we are becoming better and better; More than 4270,000 people have got vaccine, and in education, it's about 98% of the rooms, and this year Euskadi will grow and work will be created. The social response must be maintained and this next Saturday is also a marked day. We have the experience of the previous final, of the Itzulia, of social interaction in San José or in Holy Week and subsequent days. Or don't we see him in social life in every town? The final of the Cup, who will follow it will do it and celebrate at home only with the usual cohabitation unit. The priority is to implement measures in favour of personal and public health. Complying with the measures that are in place is and must be the best guarantee to overcome this situation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: The question is, that Lorenzo, the member of the Basque Socialists, made to the planetal Plantion, Housing, and Commander of the Transport Division, on the bill of the law of suffering motion, and -on precedents. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u13	The head of the table, Mr. President, chief of the departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Last March, in the context of the objectives programmed by your department for this parliamentary term, you, as a member of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport, initialled the prior approval order which initiates work on the preparation of the future law on sustainable mobility, the main purpose of which is to establish a framework for promoting sustainable mobility in the Basque Country, the drive of public transport towards the private vehicle, the interoperability of transport titles and the promotion of rail transport, among others. The preliminary draft of the above-mentioned rule, which is to be referred to this House, originates from a previous bill that fell as a result of the end of the last legislature. For the Basque Socialists, the priority is clear: to implement an integrated and multimodal approach that adequately responds to the needs of citizens in terms of the transport of people and goods; to generate a mobility model that contributes to reducing or minimizing the environmental and social impact of the current transport model; to promote transport alternatives to the current habits of citizens that are less polluting, accessible and that promote territorial cohesion in an integrated manner; to equip administrations with sustainable mobility planning tools that, among other objectives, drastically reduce pollution in cities resulting from transport; to implement measures to reduce emissions and avoid urban congestion, to promote the use of renewable energy in transport but, above all, to ensure, in any case, a transport network that is adequate to the mobility needs of the population as a whole. Efficient, attractive, affordable and integrated transport in all its forms. A transport of the future in present times. Similarly, the aforementioned preliminary draft law – which will shortly be forwarded to this office for processing – contains, in addition to what has been pointed out, a number of new developments and improvements in relation to the previous regulatory proposal. For this reason, Mr Arriola, I ask you: what normative provisions does the new draft law on sustainable mobility, on which your department is already working, contain? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u14	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Andueza, as you have commented, the preliminary draft law on sustainable mobility sets out a framework for promoting sustainable mobility in Euskadi based on active mobility, the drive of public transport towards private vehicles, the interoperability of public transport titles in an integrated intermodal system, the drive of the approach of sustainable mobility from urban planning in municipalities and the promotion of rail transport. Its articulation is based on the bill promoted by the Basque Government that fell at the end of the last legislature, and since then, and during these first months of the new legislature, we have incorporated into the content new developments that include the rights and obligations of citizens, the participation of citizens in the elaboration of mobility strategies or the obligation of municipalities to take into account the impact on sustainable mobility of their urban actions. This means, in practice, integrating pedestrian and cycling mobility and road safety criteria into the design of streets and public spaces. The new text also incorporates the promotion by the competent administrations of dissuasive parking on the urban periphery, connected with public transport. The preliminary draft law also adds an additional first provision which sets out the establishment of the Euskadi Railway Safety Agency, a public body governed by private law, based on European standards and international standards, to ensure safety criteria in the traffic of goods and persons by rail. Its functions shall be to ensure the maintenance of safety in traffic by monitoring the fulfilment of the obligations of the various actors in this field and the definition of safety objectives. The impetus for public transport is one of the pillars for sustainable mobility, and in this regard the preliminary draft maintains the commitment to facilitate a single and integrated tariff system in Euskadi, the commitment to the interoperability of existing securities in all modes of transport in Euskadi. On the other hand, 19 million tonnes of CO were emitted in 2018 2 in Euskadi, a figure of 3,7 % lower than the previous year, but in which 34 % corresponded to transport. The sustainable mobility law aims to move towards a reduction of the carbon footprint and an intermodal transport system that prioritizes people's access to public transport. And we're on it. Two weeks ago, I signed the pre-approval order which initiates the preliminary draft, and from now on, and before passing through the Governing Council and being referred to the Basque Parliament for debate and vote, the draft will be submitted to pre-emptive consultations, hearings and reports, as well as to a process of information and public participation. The forecast is that the final text can be approved by the Governing Council in the first quarter of 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u16	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Forth point on the theme list: "I'm asking you, "Modemus-Modems member of the Antice team made to the president about the climate change and the law of the state above the transition of energy and the setting in the Eucommodos' policy." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u17	Good morning. Thank you. Before we begin, even in a second, I wouldn't want to listen to what's going on outside, which, in a second, I tell the workers of Tubacex. [[Show an image]] It's been a week since Congress agreed that the law against the climatical change was admitted in Congress. And although for many years, scientific communities and societies themselves tell us that since they tell us that changes must be made for the survival of this planet, and that we must take measures, we finally have this law between us. And to-day, for the first time, I come to this atril, in this place, in peace, knowing that the gas will not be exploited by the Basques, nor by all the Basques. However, there are many things that worry me, because there are so many decisions left to be made, and so many elements are not yet closed. With that, this is the question I ask you today: What will the Basque Government decide for the climate change, and the laws of the Espolitical Transition to be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Ma'am, I'm sure you'll have all the decisions that RedMedon would guarantee to follow the law after the law has been approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u21	"When you accept the law," if you accept it, very little time. Nik galdetzen nizun..., well, igandean, goxo-goxo nengoela kafea hartzen, igandeko kafea hartzen, periodikoak irakurtzen, eta irakurtzen ahal izan nuelako –zuk ere irakurri duzu–; hemen jartzen zuen: "The Basque government renounces seeking gas in Álava by finding that it could not extract it". Beraz, uko egiten gave Euskal Gobernuak gaza exploretzeari, ustiatzeari, because he could not extract it. That is, they renounce the exploration and exploitation of gas because they have no other remedy. They renounce the exploration and exploitation of gas by the work that ecological and social movements are doing to stop this type of activity. And they give up thanks to the fact that a law has finally been passed led, by the way, by the coalition to which I belong. It is this law, it is this citizen movement that has managed to stop their feet and lower their smokes. Because, if it were for you, the gas would continue, never better said, to all gas. Because it is true that, of course, they have done everything possible to make this not so. They have done their job well against the purposes of this law to decafeinate it in Congress; they have tabled up to 40 amendments. 40 amendments, one of which was adopted. One, which has to do with giving millions of euros to CO-emitting companies 2 - No, no, no, We will talk about this another time, but, I say, one has been approved. It is a good thing that the rest has not been adopted because, in fact, these amendments were aimed at the continued exploitation and exploitation of gas in the Basque Country, despite the fact that gas was the chronicle of an announced death, and we have already said this in the budget debate. This energy policy they intended to pursue made no sense for ecological reasons and because this law was also being processed that would prevent it. And yet, even so, you, who like to present yourselves as very good managers, decided to waste on Budgets including 20 million euros – and in the midst of, by the way, a terrible health and economic crisis – to know whether there is gas or not in Subijana. This law has had to come so that they will finally swell their knees.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Time is up. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Gorrotxategi, it is good to be guided by the media headlines, but as well as that it would follow fully the note issued by the Basque Government. I think it is a healthy exercise to use the Basque Government's full note. Dena den, lehen esan disudana: Eusko Jaurlaritzak legea betetzea bermatzen duten erabaki guztiak hartuko ditu legea onartu ondoren. When the law is passed, yes. A law that, in principle, is being dealt with with with the favorable vote of the Basque Nationalist group as well. And the amendment that could have been adopted, I suppose the one that is blamed on the Basque Nationalist Party, will also have been approved with the votes of your political formation, Mrs Gorrotxategi. Nevertheless, we shall make up our commitments to the Paris COP-21, the declaration of the emergency climates in July 2019, and the decisions which can guarantee the performance of our government. With this we shall decide to prevent the loss of the rights of patrimonage to the public SESA, in order to prevent the loss of the rights of estates. On 14 March 2019, the European Parliament endorsed the European Union's objective of achieving a zero net emissions economy by 2050. Dismissed the exploitation of gas in Euskadi, it is necessary to accelerate the implementation of renewable energy installations in order to meet the objectives of the energy transition. And we maintain for this parliamentary term our two country objectives: to ensure that by 2024 the share of renewable energy accounts for 20% of final energy consumption and to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases by 30%. Will we be able to help everyone and everyone in the same direction? We also maintain the target of reducing emissions by 55% by 2030. A carbon neutral Euskadi by 2050 is a voluntary commitment in which we are moving forward before and after this law. Euskadi has come a long way before this law, and we will maintain it. Nineteen years ago, in 2002, climate change was incorporated as one of the priorities for action in the environmental strategy for sustainable development. 13 years ago we approved the Basque Plan to Combat Climate Change. Six years ago, in 2015, we approved the Basque Country's 2050 Climate Change Strategy. Two years ago, we adopted the territorial planning guidelines, incorporating the climate perspective and also the Euskadi 2030 Energy Strategy. We've been working for a long time, and we're going to continue along the path of climate ambition. We have committed ourselves to adopting a new law on energy transition and climate change in the Governing Council in this legislature, the preliminary draft of which we have already begun to deal with. And we have also proceeded with the sectoral territorial wind energy plan, in order to meet the objectives of increasing the production of renewable energy. Renewables are our goal, with gas as a transitional element, as we have been saying since we in Euskadi committed ourselves to the construction of the whole network, and as we have been explaining the obligations acquired in the face of the possibility of gas without being exclusively dependent on the outside in all the decades that will be of transition, Mrs Gorrotxategi. The law of the State will set us a new criterion, which will directly affect our planning in the management of gas in Euskadi. Less gas on his own, more energy on his own. This is the new reality after the law to continue to fulfill the objectives of the transcendental transition. And it's a priority of our country and our government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "The question is, as Charles Iturgai, a member of the popular team of the Ciudadans, a member of the United States of the United States to the President of the United States, of the estimation of the president has against the pandemonade of Euskadin COVID-19." My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr President. The panorama faced by the Basques with the pandemic has not just improved. On the contrary, today we are almost all confined. We've been backsliding for weeks because of the resuming of cases. A twist that keeps us among the communities with the worst indicators, despite the restrictions. Again setbacks, and the citizens are disoriented. And what happens to them from government institutions is neither certainty nor willingness to add up. What has happened with the AstraZeneca vaccine is the best example: tens of thousands of Basques waiting for the second dose, in a kind of limbo, and the blocked government, do not know what to do. And they don't do anything to keep these people from feeling like guinea pigs in India today in the face of this situation. We don't know what options you're running apart from keeping those citizens waiting. We have proposed, from the People's and Citizens' Party, that they give the chance to be vaccinated with a second dose of AstraZeneca to those who received the first dose. Silence on your part. And, in the meantime, the usual recipes. They do not support legal reforms after the state of alarm, lehendakari, but they want to extend the state of alarm. And Pedro Sánchez laughs, and how, when communities ask for a safe framework of action. Your partner, Mr. Sánchez, has lost a year without preparing this moment. And you, I'm sorry to tell you, did not want to push in the right direction. And also, as always, the hospitality, paying the duck. They are only allowed terraces, time limits and limits of parking spaces. It doesn't help anymore. This is the picture today, lehendakari. That is why I ask you: how do you appreciate the worrying evolution of the fight against the pandemic here in Euskadi?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u26	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Iturgaiz, the situation is worrying, yes, from the first of the days. Every wave and every peak is troubling. But also the comparative evolution between each of them is of constant improvement, Mr Iturgaiz. 13 months ago we faced a first wave with extremely alarming data. It took a three-month home confinement, not the one you say. The UCI occupation in Euskadi reached, 13 months ago, 232 beds on April 2. A second wave began in mid-July. On November 5, the peak was reached in Euskadi, with 880 cases. On 13 and 14 November, the UCI occupation in Euskadi reached 146 beds (232 and 146). On 2 February, the cumulative incidence rate reached its peak in 667 cases in Euskadi. A few days later, the UCI occupation in Euskadi rises to 173 beds. Now we're on the third rise of this second wave. The cumulative incidence rate has reached 450 cases in Euskadi. The UCI beds occupied in Euskadi are 130. These data confirm an objective fact: in Euskadi, like other communities or countries, we are succeeding in improving the response and results to each new wave, compared to the previous ones. I would like, Mr Iturgaiz, for your questions to be preceded by the observation of the situation and the changing measures being taken in Andalusia, Castile and León, Galicia, Madrid or Murcia. We're in the same situation. It is not time for competition but for collaboration, as I honestly believe that we have proceeded with the lehendakari and some presidents also belonging to the People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u29	Lehendakari, I can see the situation here. And the situation here is that your Government is a disgrace, that they are blocked and divided. You defend, for example, the extension of the alarm state. And her partner, Mrs. Mendia, refusing that endorsement. And the rest are your assessments, triumphalists, or deny reality. You said a few days ago that Euskadi was facing the fourth wave in a worse position than other communities. You said it, you'll remember. And the self-criticism, lehendakari, to say that? Because some responsibility you will have for that management of your government... Look, let's see some points I've told you before about what people say, what people talk about, and what you also listen to, as you said before. We have proposed voluntary vaccinations with the second dose of AstraZeneca, because there are people, you know, who are afraid, afraid of the vaccine. There are people who don't want to feel like guinea pigs. But there are also Basque citizens who want their second dose voluntarily: ertzainas, teachers, health care workers who have been vaccinated from the first and now do not know what will happen to them. It would be good to have a quick response from this Government, because tens of thousands of Basques could leave that limbo. Limbo, by the way, in which the octogenarians are also, you know, born in 1941, that they are not being vaccinated because they have not received any vaccination calls; I don't know if it's due to computer problems or whatever. We have proposed to you that you vacate yourself, to set an example, like so many world leaders. Let him do it publicly. We've been told that when I touch them. But isn't it up to anyone in the government, anyone responsible for Osakidetza? Because it is striking the rush they made to call the TV to record irregular vaccinations of its affiliates; listen, then, put the same win to get the TV to broadcast confidence. And besides, get away from easy recipes like giving another twist to the hospitality, as you do here. Other autonomous communities are better or in numbers similar to ours with the hospitality running, and you know it. Let's really expand terraces, timetables. Let's learn from Madrid. Keep the good news, lehendakari. Copy what others are doing well. Because, if anything has been shown, it's that closing down the hostelry doesn't fight the virus better than keeping it open. And prepare the Bilbao device well, by the end of tomorrow.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u30	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Iturgaiz, you have to keep the temple to try not to enter the rag of so many barbarities that you say. Mr. Azpiazu: Have you been vaccinated? Yeah. Mr. Iturgaiz: Why don't you ask the questions that you ask me here in the communities where you or your party preside? Or do you want me to get all the data from the communities you preside over, Mr. Iturgaiz? Look, it's a serious situation everywhere. This situation requires all our alerts and attention. He asks us to keep and keep the preventive measures in force. Now new variants of virus are the main threat, Mr. Iturgaz. Cheat goes on with a good rhythm, and that's our main hope producer. We're probably the worst we've got right now. Look, Mr Iturgaiz, a positive attitude is desirable and would be beneficial to society. He insists on his line of discredit with vaccines. I don't enter any competition in this field. Yeah, look, you recommended that I get vacated. For what? So you can charge me with irregular vaccination? Yeah, we'll get to the same place and we'll all get there at once. And I'll answer you with objective data. We have administered 587,000 vaccines, with the reserve strategy, a measure that has been seen as correct. A total of 427,000 people have already received a first dose and 160,000 the full schedule. We're on the right track. Vaccination is the best news for our society. And as for the state of alarm, I maintain the same view: we need full legal certainty for our decisions. It is essential to limit ourselves to mobility and social interaction, to reduce the bubble of relationships and to maintain distance. Let us not focus on the legal instrument for decision-making but on the legal certainty of the decisions we make. Mr Iturgaiz, my approaches are clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "I'm asking you, Madia Martíne, a member of the Mistho team made for the president, about the final act of alarm in front of the final state of May 9th, of the Euskozoa strategy to follow." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u33	Good morning, lehendakari, president, members of the government, parliamentarians. Mr Urkullu, these days we are seeing you begging in Madrid a state of alarm that allows you to continue doing here at your will, making meaningless decisions, improvising, begging Mr Sánchez what Mr Erkoreka struck on his day of 155 unannounced, so that he can free you from judicial control and thus decide where, how and when we move the Basque citizens. If, for example, the streets are all just up to ten or they are all day long. Those things you've been handling with tremendous success for months, and to the data I refer. Euskadi is the "Top 3" of contagion per 100,000 inhabitants, leading the platoon at a rate of extension of the fourth wave, with a very small percentage of the vaccinated population. He exchanged chromosomes with the Spanish Government: his vote in favour of successive states of alarm to allow him to call elections. And in November he supported that the Sánchez-Iglesias Tandem wash its hands and delegate to the autonomous communities the worst of the management of the pandemic. It was already yours; you, happy, and the Basque citizens, desperate. And since then it has contributed with its good doing to this leader of the Basque Country in the worst statistics of the health crisis in Spain. It has made the difference its main criterion of action, more restrictive than anyone else, so that we do not seem at all to those autonomous communities that today breathe much more relieved. That's right, the fault of everything is an irresponsible citizen, who skips his restrictions, who does not communicate to them where and how he has been infected, who takes advantage to live in freedom the few freedoms that you have to grant him. And if the fault is not of irresponsible citizenship, it is of a Spanish Government that denies the Basque Government that unique command for this and for everything that it so eagerly pursues. Without redundancy, it resorts to parties that support the Government to submit a proposal for an anti-pandemic law as a matter of urgency, instead of introducing a bill with its corresponding normal and guaranteed treatment. A bill to shield yourself from judicial control that has dared to bring you the opposite, to the enormous satisfaction of the hospitality sector, which in the judges has found the oxygen that you tenaciously deny you because yes. Opacity, improvisation, arbitrariness, political criteria and opportunity in the face of science and experts. Is this what you propose to continue to do from May 10th? And if not, what is your strategy to manage the pandemic after the state of alarm expired on the 9th of next month, that umbrella that has allowed you to violate people's fundamental rights in recent months? Are we guided by what their experts, Dr. Jonan Fernández and Dr. Bingen Zupiria, say, by those dirty opinions worthy of any bar bar?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u34	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Dr. Martínez, you know that the ability to articulate measures in Euskadi is limited by previous orders or answers from the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country or by the perspective of the end of the state of alarm for effective areas such as mobility limitation, minimizing social interaction. The strategy envisaged is to ensure the legal certainty of all the measures we take to preserve public health. We would also like the context to allow us to be operational. Look, Mrs Martínez, a year ago I stood against the state of alarm because we had enough ordinary legislation to give legal coverage to the measures. The adaptation of this legislation was not addressed, and I therefore requested a state of alarm in October. Now, as long as no progress is made in amending the 1986 Law on Special Public Health Measures, I consider it necessary to maintain legal coverage of the state of alarm. Given the uncertainty that we are experiencing, the alternative cannot be nothing, Mrs Martínez, and this is my approach. We will now continue to take the decisions we have to take, as we have to do. Or do we have to wait for orders communicated and before issuing our decrees to refer consultations to the courts and to the sectors that may be affected? We need legal and operational guarantees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u37	Mr Urkullu, the state of alarm, in your hands and in those of your colleague Sánchez, is a state of authoritarian and also covert alarm. True, less and less covered: neither of the two have proved to be up to the point, both have demonstrated absolute immunity from self-criticism. Today we all know that they give equal results, what matters is the exercise of power. The model of control of human agglomerations of the day of the final of the Athletic against the Royal Society, not predicting that the street Licensed Poza was to be the place of massive meetings, as has happened habitually for decades, not to deploy any device to prevent what happened, is that its model of anticipation? Is this your pandemic management model? Is that what proposes us as a Basque alternative from May 9th? Vox says no to his state of alarm, his and Sanchez's, says no to his authoritarianism and his way of managing this crisis. And, of course, a rotundo not to his headphones arming himself with his own law, accelerated to continue limiting the rights of Basque citizenship. There's not a single data that suits you as the right pandemic manager we're suffering from. The crisis in your hands, Mr Urkullu, is bad news for all Basque citizens. By the way, the Bizi Berri III plan will then be the IV.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u38	Thank you, Mrs Martínez, your time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. The other day, a fellow parliamentarian called me commander, you today call me caudillo; we are climbing on the escalphon. But that you speak to me of authoritarianism, Mrs. Martinez... Look, our strategy would complement what we said earlier. Our strategy is constructive and concrete, and consists of developing the following initiatives: agreement and consultation with the Spanish Government through bilateral dialogue, also with the Autonomous Communities and the Interterritorial Health Council; updating the Bizi Berri plan; its fourth edition was scheduled for June and we will move it forward to May, contemplating the hypothetical new scenario, without state of alarm. After the meeting on Tuesday I asked the LABI Technical Commission to work on the articulation of preventive measures for a scenario without the current legal coverage. I also set up an interinstitutional agreement within the LABI advisory council to advance a new decree to anticipate the foreseeable scenario after 9 May, and to collaborate with the groups in the contrast and adoption of the law of measures for the management of the covid pandemic, which is being processed in the Basque Parliament. This is the strategy envisaged by the Government; we will continue to evaluate, analyse and update it every day. I share the hope and desire that no further action will be necessary. The existing restrictive measures package is severe. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the peak of each new ascending phase has been getting lower than the previous ones, Mrs Martínez. The actions taken and the strategy as a whole have direct positive effects. Society must know that its efforts and compliance with all measures and restrictions are producing results; we recognize this, thank it and ask it to continue in this effort. In the meantime, we have to ensure public health, and the most effective measures have been the limitation of mobility and the limitation of encounters outside the usual bubble, especially in closed spaces and without ventilation. Restrictive measures have been shown to be effective in curbing the expansion of the pandemic. I am not going to criticize what has not been done, we are going to persevere in what can be done and in what is shown to be legally safe, which is the state of alarm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "Internation, research, Casanova Alonso, members of the meeting to the president, in front of the commercial sale of the Basque Company" Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u41	Good morning. Good morning, everyone. It is difficult to concentrate on the Basque theme, knowing that hundreds of workers are in the streets to claim their jobs and their rights, and also that they are living tense moments, so that the first words and the first thought are for them and their mutual union, for the workers of the Tubacex. But, yes, let's talk about Euskaltel. Let's talk about the company Euskaltel and the loss and disappearance of the company Euskaltel as a Basque company and as an independent company. I will start with some numbers – if I am allowed the easy joke – of telephones, because they are related to various vicissitudes that this company has suffered in recent times. The first number is going to be a modest figure compared to others that are going to be exposed throughout this talk. The first figure is 250,000 euros. 250.000 euros is the total salary increase claimed by the workers of this company in the negotiation of the last agreement. 250.000 euros, not for the Directorate, not for an entire section: 250.000 euros increase for the whole staff, an average of 90 euros per person. On this climb, the Directorate has told them no. After two years of frozen wages, Euskaltel cannot be allowed to raise 250,000 euros for the staff. If you can afford the company Euskaltel 74 million euros in the last six years, in bonus, for the same Directorate that denies the bread and salt to the staff. EUR 48 million was allocated for the exit to Bolsa and EUR 26 million will now be allocated for the liquidation of Euskaltel as an independent company. With these nearly 75 million could be financed three centuries of the cost of the salary increase that is now denied to the workers. This is your business model, Mrs Tapia, in this is what Euskaltel has become you, Mrs Mendia, now absent, and of course the most responsible, the lehendakari, Mr Urkullu. This is the company they've created. This is your business model today. He dicho que íbamos a dar más números, que este no iba a ser el único, and I will give them: The cegota fund has won more than 100 million in two years than 100 million for nothing. Trilantic and Investintry had earned more than 500 million dollars for making some movement out of the offices in three years, 500 million. The Arkbanks don't know how much he's won during the Euscaltel settlement process, but probably won hundreds above 600 million, probably. All this process, those who move in the offices have won. The workers who work hard at the company lost it, and we all lost it like a town, and we lost an strategic company. And the responsibility for all this loss is... The Basque Government is responsible for the disappearance of Euskaltel as a Basque company. The Basque Government is responsible for the disappearance of Euskaltel as an independent company, because Euskaltel is now simply and simply a subsidiary of a Spanish company. And you'll remember the Big Bang Theory series, in which Sheldon Cooper has a Youtube program called "Fun with Flags". I'm not gonna say this is so much fun, but it's gonna be Flag Drama. I will explain it graphically so that you can see the process that Euskaltel has undergone. Euskaltel was a Basque company. This is the flag of Euskal Herria. [[Shows an image of the symbol]] Euskaltel was a Basque company, and now Euskaltel, even though some think that this is the flag of Gasteiz and put it somewhere, and everything, is a company with roots in Jersey, in the tax paradise of the island of Jersey. [[Shows an image of the Jersey flag]] That is the way you, Mr Urkullu, Mrs Tapia, Mrs Mendia, have led: from being a Basque company, from Euskal Herria, to being a company based in the fiscal paradise of Jersey. Because this is the organization chart and this is, at the moment, the Euskaltel membership scheme. [[Show a schema]] Here's MoreMobile, down here. And, through a series of interposed companies, the owners are three Anglo-American investment funds and three smaller investors, who own, in turn, a company that owns 100 % of MásMovil, which in turn will probably be made with 100 % of Euskaltel. That's reality, that's reality. No root, no synergies, no Basque companies, no fiber net, because the fiber net has been lost with the rest of the company; the fiber net went inside, and it is true that now, probably, even that fiber net is sold to, precisely, finance this speculative operation. This is reality, and this is reality. And I'll make a short walk, because we know things have been told, but I think we have to place the context, the evolution of the past year, so that when we charge it to fun, we're based on the responsibility of what really happened. This company, Euskaltel, is created in 1995, and the end is public, financial is public, and it's a bet to give this town a certain degree of promotion in the telecommunicational area. This is the philosophy of creation. This company becomes Eukadin leader, and it turns to leader not only because it's a good offer, but because people understand a citizen's company as a local corporation. And the phenomenon that has been with other companies is repeated: The leadership is obtained not just for corporate offer, but for the connection of this company to this country. And people enjoy it and prize it, and that's why Euscalel became the leader. But this euscal character has been dissolved, the company itself has been destroyed in a light process that has had four landmarks. And on every landmark, there's the funcinators who've been there to clap and protect and encourage this speculation process with speculators and speculators. In 2012, the optical fiber network is privatized and the stocks of fun are sold. That's the first landmark. The company is ironing in 2015 and it's the second ballot. And there you are. In the first process, it was said that it was essential to put funds in order to pay the debt, and then it was seen that this was a lie. When it comes to the stock, it's said that it's not safe to shoot, because the Arkbanks will fulfill their functions. He saw it was a lie, too. And in 2019, Zegota comes in to British investment funds and gets control in Basques. And even then it's from fun to say that shooting isn't in danger and that there's a decision to avoid the control mechanism or to decide whether they're going to weaken the connection of this town. But we see that in 2021 MásMovil comes, takes it to the check and buys Basque. I have a number of questions, because it is true that the Basque Government has supported this whole process, but it is also true that in 2019 there was a turning point, as a result of the social and political pressure to which we modestly contribute, and this government slightly changed the speech, or to some extent changed the speech, and started talking about the possibility of entering Euskaltel. Although it was publicly said that everything was under control, not only was the possibility of the Basque Government entering Euskaltel started to be discussed, the Basque Government made the decision to enter Euskaltel. He made the decision to enter Euskaltel and passed it on to the company, and that, we know, is the case. Not only were statements adopted here in this Parliament, but the decision was taken. I ask you, Mr Urkullu: who prevented you, who vetoed you to enter Euskaltel? Why didn't that entry process materialize in Euskaltel? Nork edo zer ekidin zuen, Jaurlaritzak 2019an sartzeko wasbakia hartu ondoren, wasbaki hori gauzatzea? And the voice of alarm was already on, because although it was said that, well, Zegona's strategy was not so bad, in fact, well, it was a secret to voices that all sectors concerned about the Basque economy were really shocked. Because what happened, what happened was not only predictable, but what happened was predicted from this very atrium with hairs and signs when we said that Zegona's goal was to put Euskaltel in the window, to eat it and sell it to give the ball; the same ball that he had given in Jazztel to the one to whom he had appointed Zegona's CEO. And it was perfectly predictable, and you guys, it seems like, well, you were alluded to and you tried to get in, but then you didn't materialize it. And it seems that at the time that bet was viable. Now we do not know what happened, and in the year 2021 you appear as defenders of an operation in which Euskaltel is dismantled and sold to MásMovil. And they tell us that now it is impossible to give the 5G if it is not dependent on MoreMobile. Until three months ago, it was possible. What will have happened in the last month and peak, when three months ago we were talking about the old strategy, agreements had been made with Orange to be able to offer 5G with its network, as has been done in the past with mobile phone, and now it turns out not, that this or nothing! And I have a doubt, I have a doubt. I don't know if you when you defend this operation are lying to hide your impotence – that's the best option, hopefully that's true – or if you really believe what you're saying, that Euskaltel was too small a company to compete in a globalized world; because that would be an even more worrying message for a country that bases its productive fabric on small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u42	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, at the time of exhibiting Ikurriñas you could have exhibited the multicolored Ikurriña, which was still, recently, the symbol of one of the previous denominations of your political formation. First of all, Basque hasn't disappeared, Mr. Casanova. Euscaltel will continue to be his own brand, the prosecutor's residence, and the company of Eukadin. Basque activities and investments, services and clients, employments, are preserved at least five years later. From MásMovil's hand we can discuss the introduction of a larger project. We can discuss whether these new shares are the most suitable to compete in the European telecommunication market. We'll be able to discuss the best way to ensure a company's shooting Euskadin. We'll have a very different opinion about an open market-place, and a company that keeps the stocks, and I'm sure that between you and my view there will be a great difference between you and the mode of managing a company. If that's the case, it can't be denied that it's going to work for the new Basque situation. We're going to work with new stockholders to ensure that Euskalels are built to support their jobs. We're offering help to strengthen the growth options. We're going to work for the five years that Meinrad Spenger MásMoval's manager has publicly promised to follow. We have five years of commitment. It's been years since we've been following that period. That's our goal, not a day to lose. Euskaltel doesn't disappear. We will be able to discuss your integration into a wider project at the hands of MásMovil, as would have been with other agents, some of whom you have mentioned (operators, financial institutions), who might have been analyzing Euskaltel's business plan. But it is indisputable that the Basque Government will act. We're going to work with the new shareholders. And we have a commitment of five years of roots, many years to work and get them to continue. Today, Mr Casanova, the root is not imposed, it is not achieved in terms of capital or public controls. The root is guaranteed from a public perspective by creating a scientific, technological and business ecosystem that is attractive for investment. Joint projects with the private sector are being developed. It is achieved by consolidating a local market that is a key link in the results and potential of the companies installed in Euskadi. And we have many examples of multinationals who have been in Euskadi for years and continue to bet on this country. In this spirit of collaboration we will meet with MásMovilEuskaltel, I am convinced. And we're going to meet because we want to meet. Euskadi has a strong stake in the digital transition, the deployment of 5G networks, artificial intelligence and the development of the telecommunications sector applied to industry 4.0, personalized health or the environment. We're moving on. According to Orkestra's 2020 competitiveness report, Euskadi has reached seventh in the European digitisation index, almost ten points above the European average. Euskadi has evolved positively in the five dimensions analyzed: connectivity, human capital, use of internet services in households, integration of digital technology and digital public services. And Euskadi stands ahead of relevant countries such as Germany, France or Austria. We have collected that digital commitment in the new 2030 Science, Technology and Innovation Plan. We have approved the Euskadi 2025 Digital Transformation Strategy and will invest EUR 1.4 billion. We will strengthen the Basque Cybersecurity Center, the Basque Ultrafast Broadband Observatory and the Metaposta Service. Our program captures the commitment of the Basque Artificial Intelligence Center. That is our bet on an attractive ecosystem for business, industry and investment. And we will continue to work to ensure that the funds of the foresight entities and the Basque investors participate in the companies of the country to strengthen their roots. Also with Kutxabank, always taking care of the regulatory framework that has conditioned its investments since 2009. It would not be wrong to recognize their efforts within the framework of all existing financial institutions, including Basques. We are open to the new economy with realism, with investments and shared projects. And we are committed to putting Euskadi at the top of the digital transformation. This is the investment made by the Basque Government. This is the way to encourage the rooting of companies and the attraction of investment. The example we had last year with an increase of 163 % in foreign investment in Euskadi. We are talking about an open and global telecommunications sector. Investments are going to be billionaire, and the competition of big American and Chinese companies is going to grow. In view of this reality, the European Union advocates a unified telecommunications market. This will require technological and financial muscle, as well as reducing the current business atomization; today we are already witnessing merger announcements between Telefónica, O2 and Virgin, for example. This process requires the participation of relevant players in the European market, and we want to play in this league, not in the first division, but in the division of honour. Euskaltel, on its own, had difficulty accessing the necessary investments in the 5G scenario. Euskaltel is very attractive to investors, before and now, given the telecommunications sector where it operates. Euskaltel, along with MásMovil, has a chance to play in this division of honor, and that will be positive for Euskadi. Our determination is to take advantage of this opportunity with a minimum five-year horizon, so that this project will contribute to promoting technological and digital transformation in Euskadi. It was born 25 years ago, driven from the public coast of Euskaltel, but not only the reading of 2012, but 25 years ago, Mr. Casanova. It was in a very different situation of the present day. The Telefonic was almost monopolyized by the market in the State, and a new technology was founded at that time. For the past few years, the telecommunication market has become global and very complex. Strong agents have been created and have shown the ability to make great investments in the whole world to adapt to the new technology that have been created. Now, we're on the threshold of a new technology revolution that will affect the 5G networks. This revolution will produce more speed than 100 times the present. It will alter our minds, our social relations, our health, education, and leisure, here and in the whole world. He's been able to fit on those new Euscalel scenarios. The best proof is that when Euscaltel started in 1995, the Euscaltel had the value of $12,000 million pezzans, that is to say, around 72 million euros. The public offer of stocks is now announced, and the value of Euscalels has been 2,000 million euros-that is, in 25 years he has multiplied his worth 30 times. It's a company that polls in the Euscalel stocks, and it's quite attractive that private investors offer their capital at 100%% of the value of shares with the 26th primary. I don't think you're going to invest in the stocks, not even funding for that. Our best answer is to take advantage of this opportunity to cooperate with a company which is strong enough to encourage a new intercommunicationor to remain in Europe. That's what we're gonna do. in the improvement of the preventive system, in investment, in talent, and in employment, and also through the strategic investments that we'll invest with the funding. This is what we've been doing for the last 40 years and what we're gonna do for the next few years. To encourage the public investment and cooperation with private enterprise, this means the production of Eucharin activities, growth, and employment. That's the pattern we defend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u45	Good morning again. I am going to read a transcript of an allegation presented in this Parliament by the Eusko Alkartasuna group – I am going to read a part – in 2012, concerning the sale that was proposed and that materialized at the time of the network and the actions of the Basque Government. "What the government proposes, in short, is to sell its networks to an external investor who is also interested in the purchase of Euskaltel. In this regard, it is important to note the fact that Kutxabank, the company's main shareholder, also intends to dispose of a large shareholder package, which, together with the Executive's plans, makes clear the risk that an investor outside Basque society will be controlled by Euskaltel and, consequently, the company's decision-making centre will leave Euskal Herria, thereby making the company's strategic decisions responsive to interests outside of that country, which would thus lose a firm committed to its well-being and economic development." Year 2012. We have repeated these kinds of warnings again. By the way, you were telling us that we were always thinking in negative terms when we warned that what actually happened was going to happen. Since 2012, and in each of the mugarris I previously referred to, Euskal Herria Bildu has warned him of the road Euskaltel was taking. And Euskaltel doesn't disappear. The other day, at a press conference, I brought up the end of Umberto Eco's famous book, "All we have left of a rose is its name." Well, all we have left of Euskaltel is his name, and the name of Euskaltel, of course, is not going to disappear for a fundamental economic reason, and is that it is a very valuable mark and, therefore, no one in his or her right mind is going to make that mark disappear. But Euskaltel does disappear as an independent company, because it becomes a company owned by MásMovil, which, in turn, is owned by a number of investment funds. And it disappears as a Basque company because among the priorities of Euskaltel at no time will appear, from now on, to bet on priority for this country, for its suppliers, for early technological developments, or for any other matter than the maximum possible profit that it can lend to its owners, to those of those funds. And that is so, Mr Urkullu. Denying that is denying the evidence. You spoke of rooting, of rooting achieved on the basis not only of legal or proprietary issues. Indeed, there may be ways to work and to root companies with decision-making cores outside and that are comfortable here. I don't deny it. But you said, very recently, that the root of Euskaltel is shielded by the company's statutes. [[Show a paper]] It's very good to get along well, but it's very good to have it signed on a paper as well. And that's what's gone, because those five years are a simple permanence contract. And, in addition, in those five years they are conditioned not to change the ownership of the owners. And the ownership of the owners, who are MoreMobile, can change at any time, because there, the permanence contract that has funds with MoreMobile is one year. And when they can hit the ball and resell MoreMobile again, they're gonna do it. And from then on, the word given has no binding value. You haven't answered me to key questions. He didn't tell me why they decided to enter Euskaltel and then they didn't. Nor has he told me at what point there is an economic and technical analysis that says that the project prior to the purchase of MásMovil was unworkable and, of course, to continue offering technological development and 5G had to enter that sale. When did you decide? Based on what? That, you haven't decided. That, you've been made. And you, not to assume the inability to lead a strategic sector of this country like telecommunications, for I believe you have joined the car and said, as with the fox and the grapes: "Ah! Well, since we can't have Euskaltel as a Basque company, let's say the other one is good." Because it's not up to me, really, to be in favour, honestly, of this process. And, if you need to ally yourself with a big one, why don't you make other kind of alliances, like you just made one with Orange to use your 5G technology. Or, if you need to get into a big one, why doesn't Euskaltel take some of that big one's share ownership and at least have 10 or 15% of a big one? Because this is not the result of any strategic reflection based on the needs of this country, but it is a mere speculative operation to which you, in a way that I believe quite irresponsible, are giving cover. Things have changed a lot between the 1990s and 2020s. In the telecommunications sector, of course, but also in the Basque Nationalist Party, which at the time, faced with a strategic challenge, wanted to give a country response, and now, at the moment, it has no capacity to generate its own response and the message it sends to the country is that we are too small to compete in the international context. That, you wouldn't tell Orona, MC, Irizar, CAF and many other companies of a relatively small size in the global context that are doing excellently well. And there are many companies that, based on having a large market share in our territory (e.g. Kutxabank case) can compete with giants and do things very well. That's not justification. That is the same justification given by the Spanish right to deny the viability of our people as a sovereign state: "You are too small to survive in the globalized world." The PNV may think so, but, of course, Euskal Herria Bildu does not.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u46	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, I don't know who you meant when you said you were too small, if the representation of the Basque Nationalist Party, because if so, the representation of EH Bildu, then, I don't know... Dena den, it seems that you do not manifest a position contrary to the fact that Euskaltel may be part of a larger entity. You refer to a 10, 15% of a larger company. Do you know what you're saying? Do you know what he's saying? How much does a stock of a listed company cost in Stock Exchange? Look, at my first intervention, I've answered your question frankly. And it's not a question of seeing the public offer made by MásMovil to Euscaltelli, it's a good thing to see what's happening with the eyes of reality. I assume our differing views. What seems to me to be serious is that you use half-truths to confuse society, so you will allow me, Mr Casanova, to clarify some of your concerns. One: Euskaltel was born in 1995, driven by the Basque Government, with a 40% stake in its capital. Therefore, even in its early days it was not a public society of the Basque Government. The aim was to give private partners access to the capital, Mr Casanova. This was done with the Mondragon Group, with Iberdrola, Endesa or Telecom Italia. They were private partners and made their decisions, Mr. Casanova. Two: in 2012, the Basque Government and other private shareholders sold their stake – in 2012, Mr. Casanova, and I say no more – to give entry to investment partners in 48.1% of Euskaltel's capital. Euskaltel was valued at more than EUR 400 million, and the sale of the public stake meant a surplus value for the public coffers. And let's think about the situation we were in in 2012. Three: for almost ten years, the Basque Government has not been a reference partner nor has it any share in the company's capital. For almost ten years. Four: You're talking about the exploitation of the physical seaports paid by the public money, and that net was sold to Euscaleli at 2012. He sold it to Euscaleli after giving permission to the Basque Parliament. And thanks to that sale, it was just about $8 million. The amount of this was twenty years ago that Euscaleli was paid for the rent on the network. Five: Euscalel, six years ago, in 2015, began to cotize in Burst in Burst. From that moment on, it depends on the rating of the markets and the local state or international shares. From that year forward. Six: You mentioned millions of directors' bonds, and that's a common formula in enterprises. We'll like you and me more or less, but it's a responsibility taken by the Administration Council and its officials. The only thing that's been said about, is the idea of having those resources back in the company. Seven: let us not forget that the offer of MásMóvirl is at the moment the offer on the table, so that we are at the beginning of a process, so let us not anticipate anything. Eighth: you talk about risk to employment. In fact, employment is guaranteed. The new shareholders have given their word that there will be no employment regulation files in the next five years. I have no reason to doubt the word of the CEO or the company's ability to maintain and increase current jobs. I end with a positive message, because we are facing an opportunity: the Basque Government is going to maintain a close working relationship with the new company. We will commit ourselves to the future of the new digital economy in Euskadi. It is our will, and we do not give up any form of collaboration. MásMovil and Euscaltel are two complemental companies and they favor the future of telecommunics in Europe. These two companies can encourage and encourage a digital Basque transformation. Also, the extension of new 5G networks simplified and strengthened. If Basque continues to serve well, Euskadin will continue to be clients. After all, clients give value and root to a company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "The question is, that the parliamentary members of the American American team, Carmel Barrius Barrojal, made to the president about the economic consequences of the public offer by MásMóvivil to buy Euscalel." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u49	Good morning. Thank you, President. Lehendakari, councillor, councillors, councillors, ladies and gentlemen. Well, my question has changed the plane of dramatism and debacle from the previous initiative to that of the search for utility and to clear doubts, if that can be. Some issues have already been dealt with in the previous initiative, but we have to say that some issues in this operation have, I say again, demonstrated, by the history of Euskaltel, a certain weakness of the Basque Government in important economic matters, lately. We were talking about what was the jewel of the crown – it's not that I described it, I've seen it everywhere – of Basque telecommunications, of our business fabric. Moreover, as has been shown in some way, the Basque Government's intentions were many recently in relation to Euskaltel. In any case, we have to say that we have witnessed normal market performance or an operation that is often carried out between economic, commercial and business players such as this. But the story of Euskaltel is different from that of other companies. Driven by the public initiative, a company in the shadow of the administrations, controlled by a political party in its governing structures, the PNV, pampered by the different administrations throughout its history in terms of economic support and infrastructure, under the umbrella of another government-related structure (Kutxabank), there is a lot of public money behind that entrepreneurial initiative... Well, all this has changed its course. As it occurs in these operations, the big fish eats the boy, and history, then, no longer matters. That is why I believe that the MásMovil OPA to be with Euskaltel has been the observation of the process of concentration in which the sector moves, but it has also revealed the risks of weakening our economy, on different issues. Some have been highlighted by economic actors in this country. That is why I want to reassure us, if possible, of the economic repercussions in the country envisaged by your Government in relation to the MostMobile OPA to Euskaltel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u50	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Barrio, if the memory does not fail me, you, like all the Members who voted for it, voted in favour of the sale of Euskaltel here in the Basque Parliament. In any case, the economic impact of Euskaltel's acquisition by MásMovil is positive in a five-year vision. And from that moment on, in the new scenario of telecommunications we will find ourselves faced with a challenge and an opportunity. MásMovil is one of the four major operators of the state. And, from this perspective, the operation allows you to gain muscle in technological capabilities and in digitalization opportunities for Euskadi. The telecommunications sector in Europe, as you have said, is moving towards a process of concentration that enables larger companies to compete equally with large US or Chinese companies. The European Commissioner for the Internal Market, Mr Thierry Breton, has shown his commitment to creating a single European telecommunications market. This process will consolidate the sector in Europe of the new 5G networks, as well as make the multi-million dollar investments necessary for the deployment of these new networks profitable. As a reference, one fact: in China (1.4 billion inhabitants), three mobile operators share most of the market. In the United States, for 330 million there are three companies. In Europe (450 million people) we have 80, 80 large operators. It is clear that the European market must move forward and strengthen itself if it is to be competitive and not miss the train of the new digital revolution. And when we talk about the European market, we talk about the situation that directly affects us, and in this scenario, the sum of Euskaltel and MásMovil is an opportunity for Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u53	Thank you, President. Thank you, lehendakari, for your answer. Well, I share some of the issues you have said, but I do see with concern what the economic impact of this operation is, because I echo some critical statements on this issue. For example, someone as qualified as the president of the Bilbao Chamber of Commerce has been especially hard – and he was a counselor, a connoisseur of Euskaltel on the inside, whom I know, a counselor or vice president, had, and today holds, the position he holds – and blamed the Basque Government for its non-involvement. That is striking in relation to people so close politically and economically, and also for coincident economic and strategic purposes. He spoke of economic damage at tax level, at economic level, at employment level. And that's troubling, that a qualified entity like this does. In other words, the Executive was studying his entry into the capital recently. Then it didn't materialize. That is, now, in view of what is happening, what is happening in Euskaltel, societies are now being created to manage funds. We've seen him these days in the press. Funds are expanded to manage shares of companies, they are expanded to 300 million, Finkatuz... It gives the impression that the Government is concerned about what happened with the absorption of Euskaltel and wants to react, at least apparently. That is why we are thinking of these economic implications, of that concern, of the situation in the new technologies, telecommunications sector, here. We're talking about an interesting opportunity for the 5Gs. It didn't exist before, now it did. That, how are we going to take advantage of it? Those are the issues on which the Government must, of course, give assurances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u54	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mr. Barrio, I can't guarantee you anything. I believe that, in terms of the Basque Government's involvement in the objective of rooting out strategic projects capable of internationalisation, we have also been talking for many years about the Basque Government's commitment. In any case, MásMovil is an industrial company that has ensured that Euskaltel will continue to be a differentiated company, with its own brand, with its registered office and with its tax residence in Euskadi. We will give this new stage a chance in the history of Euskaltel and we will work together so that this operation will benefit Basque customers and companies. We are going to give a boost to the strategy of digitisation and deployment of 5G networks in Euskadi. In the words of the company MásMovil itself, with this operation seeks to make an exponential leap in the services to private customers and companies especially in the northern area, where Euskaltel has 800,000 customers. And, therefore, from my point of view, the union of MásMovil and Euskaltel adds up. From the Basque Government we have set up the limbs to have a scientific, technological and business system that allows us to face the digital transformation of our economy. We must not be afraid of the future. We have always been able to respond to the processes of globalization and now we will also do so. I am convinced of that, Mr Barrio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, the Populous Group of the Ciudadans, the first member of the House of Representative Presidents and Security, on account of the success of the King's Cup." Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Erkoreka. On the 3rd of April we lived in the streets of Bilbao – in particular, the Calle Licenciado Poza – scenes of crowds of people in groups that exceeded the four people, of the absence of distances of security between them. And as the hours went by, the situation worsened to see burnt containers, launches of objects, riots and damage in many shops and in the hospitality industry. The hoteliers themselves had to go out and expose themselves to save their belongings and protect their businesses. The situation, Mr Erkoreka, must be realistic, it has gone out of their hands. They had to make the decision to stop the intervention, withdraw the Ertzaintza to avoid major evils. Some ERTZAINAS who went out to do their work – and from here we want to recognize their work – but to those who were sent to a lost battle in advance. Lost in advance because they never had control of the street. Now that you are working on these internal issues, Mr Erkoreka, you must know perfectly well that in these kinds of situations it is essential to maintain control of the street at all times. A phrase from the central government that you support, in Madrid, is popular, saying, "Well, it's that you couldn't know." And they must have been infected. But in this case, Mr. Erkoreka, don't hang up. We had several warnings. First warning: On Thursday, April 1, in Lezama, thousands of Athletic fans came to fire their team's bus. The day of the final could be known, Mr. Erkoreka. The next day, Friday, April 2, in Zubieta, thousands of fans of the Royal Society came to fire their team. The day of the final could be known, Mr. Erkoreka. On the same day of the match, from morning onwards, major agglomerations began in central Bilbao. The day of the final, Mr. Erkoreka, you could know. Therefore, those of us who walked on the street knew that there was atmosphere, we saw – and it is true, and this is reprehensible – totally irresponsible personal behaviors, but it was work, Mr Erkoreka, his and his department, to prevent and control it. Of course you could know! We all knew it, and it was up to you to put the means in place so that this would not happen. Tomorrow our Athletic plays another finale. The question is: what is your department planning to do so that this situation does not happen again? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u58	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Gordillo, I will overlook this account which preceded the formulation of the question, loaded with biased, partial and easily rebuttable approaches. I wouldn't have time to go into all the details now, but, look, going into the background of the matter, it certainly doesn't hide that the Department of Security has the upper management and headship of the Ertzaintza, as clearly stipulated by the law, the law approved by this House. This means that it cannot, nor should it, nor does it have any intention of supplanting Ertzaintza in what is the design and handling of police devices and operations. Something that is entrusted and always carried out scrupulously by the professional commanders, where appropriate, in coordination with the police forces of the local police officers who may be coinciding in the matter. In this case, we are not faced with an exception. So, you're asking me what we're going to do about tomorrow's game. We will do what the department always does on these occasions: first, to support the Ertzaintza; secondly, to meet absolutely all its needs, and thirdly, to remind it once again – something that is not indispensable, that is not necessary, but that is always latent in all the actions and operations of the Ertzaintza – to remind it of the parameters that must be respected under the law and should guide its action in all kinds of situations, within which the principle of proportionality and also the principle of maximum coordination with the rest of the police forces – which here is absolutely essential – as a mechanism or as a guarantee of effectiveness in police action and in the fulfilment of its objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u60	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u61	Thank you, Mr Erkoreka, for your answer. But, man, download the responsibility directly into the Ertzaintza... You, as a member of the government, have responsibilities, right? The operative device will depend on the Ertzaintza commands in which you, of course, delegate or trust, but, man, it is your responsibility – and, above all, it is your department's responsibility – to put all the means and all the forces necessary for Ertzaintza not to be in a state of unprotectiveness, which is the feeling that gave what was happening. I'm surprised now, because you've come out in the press saying you're going to develop another device, you're going to triple the force, etc. Man, me, what I want – I really want to tell you, Mr Erkoreka – is for things to be done right, what I want is for security to be on the streets of Bilbao. Let us trust this correction – because, even if you are not saying so, it is basically a correction; you do not want to say it here in this House, but you have told the press – and let us trust that among all of us will not repeat the incidents of the previous time. I only ask one thing – and I take the floor for that which he has said about coordination – to coordinate effectively with the local police, but also to coordinate with the National Police and the Civil Guard, who also have troops in Euskadi, if necessary, and to prevent the repetition of these incidents and the people of Bilbao and the followers of Athletic from having the party in peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u62	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Gordillo, well, I have already told you – and I insist – that this distinction between the Department of Security and Ertzaintza is in the law, which you should not ignore, and each one has his commission and his duties. Secondly, I have made a statement here, in this House, on some other occasion, making a reflection that you certainly fully share, and that is that I am not in favour of discussing publicly about police devices or operations for two reasons: for a reason of effectiveness, because a revealed device is an unused device, and, secondly, for reasons of security, because an operation that is already known, of course, can also seriously compromise the safety of the agents involved in it. It would therefore be an irresponsibility on my part, 24 hours from a sporting event such as you point out, to collect here or publicly express the content of the operation that is worked together with the local police concerned, by the Ertzaintza. And, moreover, it would be a presumption, because – I insist – it would be a presumption on my part, as it is a matter of coordinated operations with other police officers who do not depend on the Basque Government or the Department of Security, to assign all these functions to me, that claim. Otherwise, you attribute statements to me in the press of a correction. Not at all. I have been asked about this, and I have said that the circumstances on this occasion are radically different from those that occurred two weeks ago and that, therefore, the answer will have to be necessarily different. I have not spoken of rectification, I have said that it has to be different because the circumstances are different, and this is ostensible. Before there were two Basque teams, now there is a Basque team; before there were municipalities of free movement, now there are many confined, particularly Bilbao, and therefore the difficulties of access to Bilbao are different. The conditions are objectively different; therefore, the resolution and exit must necessarily be different on the part of the police. Coordination is established, and I appeal again, reiterating something that the head of Ertzaintza said yesterday through the media: please, I appeal to respect for health regulations. With that we have the first device secured already.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u64	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Number of points in theme list: "Interpelation by David Soso Rodríguz together Podemos-Nozzeral Industrial Laws by Economics in Economy, patience, and Environmental Department, by means of the mechanism of preventing the forfeition of the former companies." Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u65	Good morning, counselors and counselors, Mrs Tapia. Here we are once again, and as Mr Lehendakari was told before, before a chronicle announced: the definitive sale of Euskaltel to international financial capital. I do not say speculative because financial capital is intrinsically speculative, despite who weighs it. Well, I am not going to go too far in relation to the details of the operation, which Mr Casanova has already mentioned in his inquiry, but I am obliged to recapitulate and highlight some aspects of it. For starters, you refer to this operation as an exemplary operation. It is exemplary, yes, of all that should not be done. Example of exhausted policies, of empty appeals to innovation, to technology, all rhetoric. It is, in short, exemplary of a drift, that of you, harmful to the Basque economy and to the whole of citizenship. Euskadi no longer has strategic public enterprises. Euskadi is today less sovereign than it was, and the processes of sale of companies or shareholdings and the privatization or outsourcing of public services are the reason for this loss of sovereignty. The appeals to self-government are meaningless if the self-government recognized by the Statute of Gernika is then badly sold or subordinated because there is no alternative to the game of trilers that is international financial capital. Indeed, in the last few weeks, under our consideration, they have been sown in certain statements, Madam Counsellor. When you said there's a lot of money flying over Euskadi, what exactly did you mean? Do you believe that this capital is at all interested in the well-being of Basque citizenship or the strategic position of our country in the world, our ability to produce, innovate or progress? The answer, for our group, is a clear no. You have already been reminded several times this week, and today in this plenary, of the tremendous operation that you sponsored and which was the protagonist of the financial group ICV. Well, ICV was made with 41% of the Basque company until then for just 11 million euros. In a financial acrobatics, only three years later, ICV sold all its shares at the time of the departure to the Stock Exchange of a Euskaltel already valued at 1.2 billion euros. A clear example of the purpose of these financial groups, which is nothing more than to maximize their profitability, and nothing more. I suppose you will answer me, as the Lehendakari has already done in response to the previous inquiry, that not only has the Basque Government made an effort to participate through the Basque Institute of Finance in several strategic companies, but this week just extended the capital Finkatuz by 160 million, which has been instrumentalized through a new society. Well, let me go ahead and answer him by literally quoting a medium that I don't think is suspected of being related to the parties that make up my coalition, a majority medium in this country: "The Autonomic Executive yesterday adopted a decision merely bureaucratic and without any real significance with the creation of a public society that will be responsible for managing the participation fund that until now depended on the Basque Institute of Finance." And then he says: "Everything points out that the announcement of the creation of Finkatuz SA is a tactical movement before the appearances, on Friday, in full control." We practically make these same words our own. As you can see, the destructive opposition of the left is not the only one that is very upset with the latest developments and, in general, with how you are dealing with the industrial and economic policy of this country. There are several references also in the press, the result of interviews, in which there is a clear criticism of their policy. One of them, that of Alfonso Basagoiti, former Euskaltel's advisor, who says to one of the questions they ask him in the media: "Does it take a large size to survive in the world of telecommunications?". He says: "As in all things, there is more than one model. On the one hand there is the model of very large companies, and, even if it looks like the world is going around, things aren't exactly like that. Throughout this conglomerate there will always be local and competitive companies. At first Euskaltel gambled for being a highly technological, but local and very competitive company. And that's an important issue. Euskaltel has ceased to be that mid-local company; we took the steps that had to be taken to grow, but it had to have led; it did not lead, it has not led and now neither. Now you'll be in a new group, which will be what it will be. When they say there are five years guarantee..." – Mr. lehendakari also referred to it – "... those are the five years of investment that the funds are given. They know that the optimal happens after five years, and therefore they play to that." This is not what we say, said by an ex-counsellor of Euskaltel. Also, as mentioned above, the President of the Bilbao Chamber of Commerce says that the OPA to Euskaltel is not positive for Euskadi. In fact, he says: "It is not positive for Euskadi, I am very sorry, a Basque company is lost and a big international company is coming." It is very serious, in our opinion – and we have mentioned it more than once – not to be clear what your economic development strategy is. They want to emulate that of the Anglo-Saxon countries, but to compete in the first division you cannot go with a third regional team. This Anglo-Saxon paradigm that you want to reach, and which is so exciting to you, requires a number of pre-existing elements that are not sufficiently developed in our country. And it is that, in addition to having no banks with an industrial vocation – and here we could talk about everything that has happened with Kutxabank, but it would not give us time to enter – we lack the most essential thing, to have a powerful scientific basis that conducts border research. Mr Lehendakari also referred to this as one of the objectives of the Basque Government. I do not know what steps you are taking in this direction, bearing in mind that here we have a public university that you do not want to equip properly and a private university more interested in traditional disciplines, such as ADE, Engineering or Law, but with little research tradition. Euskadi is the territory of the state, yes, which devotes the highest percentage of its GDP to research and development, right, but we are far behind in relation to the countries that today occupy technological leadership, such as Korea (4.6%), Taiwan (3.5), Germany (3.2) or China (2.2). What policies have the Basque Government implemented in this area in recent years? For, in our view, two have operated in parallel: on the one hand, the classical industrial participation mechanisms were dismantled, which allowed us to have something to say about certain strategic decisions, to have influence and even veto power in certain important companies; and, on the other hand, they have created a sort of fiscal paradise with an absurd amount and diversity of small venture capital funds and other instruments to push abstractions, such as the entrepreneurial system. Kutxabank has disposed of 3 billion strategic and fundamental industrial stakes for this country; a 75% reduction in six years, Mrs Tapia. A reduction of an inheritance, by the way, of the savings banks and semi-public financial institutions and privatized in such a sluggish way as is now the case with Euskaltel. They left, for example, CAF, then entered the Basque Institute of Finance with a ridiculous 1.24%; a practical example of what their policy is. In the current situation it is not worth pulling out of the manual of the perfect neoliberal ruler. It is up to you to move, lead and intervene in the private sector. There are other models in which the state intervenes without blush in the economy. And I will also mention one of the European Union. We note that Germany does not hesitate to intervene actively in its industry. You will not ignore that one of Volkswagen's largest shareholders is a federated state, and that Europe's largest public development bank manages assets worth 546 billion, despite the constraints of Basel III, which ultimately limit this type of operation. Today, countries with successful economic development models are not limited to putting conditions...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u66	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u67	Eskerrik asko. I'll continue in the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u68	Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u69	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Chiefs and congressmen, good morning to all of you. Mr. Soto, you've mentioned a lot of things. And, well, I'll try to answer your precise question, because there wasn't any such thing as the Basque theme here, the president mentioned. But, yes, I'd like to tell you, first, one thing, and it's that you've been talking about the company's strategic business. And the president was telling you exactly in this case, because you were talking about Euscale, it's never been a public company. There's never been a public company, because from the very first there was a minor capital. On the other hand, I would like to point out that it is good to be informed through the media, to gather information; it is always nice to know what is at the end of the street, what we are all talking about. But it is no less true that it is also important to have other sources of information that are sometimes more qualified than the opinions that can be expressed, which we all see in a medium of communication. Well, but let's get to the point, which is the root of businesses in a territory. The roots of companies in any territory – in this case we are talking about Euskadi – or the attraction of direct investment or entrepreneurship, which I thought I understood to be an abstraction. Indeed, Mr Soto, I invite you to visit any of our BICs, any of the companies that have been born out of this country's enterprise and that have grown, because, indeed, they are more than an abstraction, they are a reality that can be seen. But, in any case, all of these elements depend on a multitude of aspects that business leaders, all of them, certainly, value when deciding whether a company is located in one or another location and whether certain locations are the most suitable for carrying out one or other activity. Today – as the lehendakari said, and I make his words mine and repeat them – the root is not imposed. It is not achieved in terms of capital or public controls. Work is done, guaranteed from a public perspective, creating an ecosystem of competitiveness and comfort for business development. That's the way to guarantee the root. And, in this sense, the Basque Government, within its competence, has worked for many years, many legislatures, works at this time and will work – I have no doubt – to create an ecosystem that is attractive, that allows us not only to maintain in Basquedi those future business projects, strategic projects, but also, strengthening that enterprise that you have wanted to undervalue, attract foreign direct investment to Basquedi and develop our industrial fabric, complementing it with capabilities that it does not have today, and, of course, with the aim of deepening, among other things, in the employment and well-being of our country. All this, we have to do it among all, in an environment of great changes, some of them structural, such as those derived from the three major transitions that have been accelerated as a result of the pandemic. And this multidisciplinary ecosystem is nourished by a multitude of aspects, as you certainly know. Aspects that are valued by companies when they are to be located in a particular place, such as tax issues, energy, financial, science and technology issues – as you yourself referred to – work, training, social and institutional issues in terms of proximity and public-private collaboration. And all this marks the positioning of a territory to attract an investment or keep it active and make it grow. And that's what you do and what you've done since Euskadi, what we do. Direct participation in a company, by the government or by one of its many instruments, may be one of the root roads, it is true, but it is not the only one, not even the most relevant. And it must also be accompanied by that ecosystem, because not only with the ability to act from the public is the root obtained. You referred to two German companies in which the relevant Länder participate; it is true, but also – like the Basque Government, participating, and we have sent it to the House, in more than 78 local companies – also, that Länder have an ecosystem like the one Euskadi is building and wants to build in the future. In this context, we have important companies in Euskadi – the Lehendakari also said – of private full ownership, with origin in a direct international investment, which are maintained, strengthened, which generate employment and which, of course, strengthen our business fabric and make our SMEs grow and incorporate them into their supply chain. I will not give names, they are in the mind of any of us and of us; and they are not just recent investments, they are long-standing investments that have been maintained here for decades, in Euskadi. And from the Basque Government we are working to strengthen all these instruments, to generate that ecosystem; in addition to participation through our public funds – to which I will not spend more time because we have talked a lot about them – I would like to refer to some other actions and instruments that are relevant. Cluster politics, for example. Euskadi is one of the pioneer regions – as you certainly know – in terms of cluster politics, which has since been imposed and established in Europe and where Euskadi continues to have a relevant position because of its way of acting, which has been modernising, and we are a key actor through, in addition, an institute such as Orkestra, the Basque Institute of Competitiveness, which is relevant to this position and helps us to act on that key. Our industrial fabric has to face all those challenges that we were talking about, and of course we have to take advantage of that need for dimension on many occasions, which we have also discussed in this House. And the dimension is sometimes won through mergers, absorptions – they don't always come from outside to absorb and merge, we too go out to acquire companies – but on other occasions it is done through participation and work in supply chains, where cluster politics has a lot to do in this global and competitive world. And it is true that in all the niches and in all the areas of action the way of working is not the same; obvious, evident, and therefore from that cluster policy we try to do it ad hoc for each of the sectors. They do it, they do it because they are involved, with the help and collaboration of the Government. What else? Other instruments at the disposal of the industry, in which we have also made them known throughout this year and which, of course, require a multitude of actions that lead us to work in aspects of risk capital, yes, but also in actions of soil management, of management of instruments for SMEs, of management of instruments for internationalisation – indeed, I also recall some debate that we have had in this House and some debate that has been held publicly, where a corporation as relevant as the Mondragon corporation in its own bosom had the debate as to whether it was important the international presence, the internationalization of its companies, the setting up of factories in an international way and its impact on the local economy; that debate has also had, very important, and has proved to be, the corporation itself demonstrated that it was relevant to be in the international position–; therefore, on many occasions we do not realize what it means to root until we make a very relevant analysis in that regard. The Basque Science, Technology and Innovation Network is a network that we have provided for many years, and that today, of course, working on those axes that we have established as priorities within the Science, Technology and Innovation Plan provides our business system with all those capabilities that it needs to cope with the transitions of the future. A Basque Network of Science, Technology and Innovation which, in part, is also associated with BRTA, with the Basque Research and Technology Alliance, precisely for this reason, in order, without losing independence from each of the centers, to generate sufficient critical capacities to meet the challenges that are facing us. A network of innovation centres and sufficient infrastructure and infrastructure supply centres such as the AIC, the Advanced Aeronautics Manufacturing Centre, the Cybersecurity Centre, the Advanced Wind Energy Manufacturing Centre, Bimep, the future Energy Intelligence Center, HarshLab, infrastructure also needed to make this innovation a reality. And, of course, a job between tractor companies and suppliers, which are one of the increasingly important elements, as we are seeing in the pandemic. In short, instruments to which talent and training must accompany in order to guarantee that root of which we were talking. And as you see, of course, they are a plethora of instruments that are not born today, but that improve, adapt and work over the years and that are essential to be able to work in the future as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u71	Thank you, Counselor, for the explanations you have given us. Anyone would say that, according to the explanations he has given and to all the projects that are under way, the industrial fabric in this country and the productive fabric of this country should not have suffered the avatars that have suffered from the recent closures of certain strategic companies – such as the one that is currently manifesting itself – with the EREs that have occurred, as well as with the loss of employment over the last decades in the industrial field. We have lost 54% of industrial employment since 1975. I do not know what process of digitisation and innovation has been done to deal with this permanent loss of productive fabric and employment associated with it; in any case, I must say that yes, the cluster model, of course, has been and was a good one. That, of course, must be acknowledged, but what is certainly not a good thing for us is what you call generating the necessary ecosystem for certain international investment funds to land, as if this were a runway, in Euskadi to maximize their profits by entering the capital of certain companies. And I say to you that it does not seem to us the model, basically because, fundamentally, you bind it, yes, to the fiscal – and we have already had the debate on this issue on more than one occasion – to have a fiscal competitiveness – because, moreover, this is called in the euphemism that is used – so that the historical territories of Euskadi have, in fiscal terms, greater competitiveness with respect to the rest of the territory of the State, being Bizkaia the second in the rankings of fiscal competitiveness, behind Madrid. I want to say that it seems to me that this claim of this model is not the right one. The clusters, yes, no doubt. And the promotion and public participation in the country's strategic enterprises. When you were talking about not referring to us in the media, man, at last, a former Euskaltel advisor and the President of the Bizkaia Chamber of Commerce do not think that they are minor elements when it comes to putting them on the table, when they criticize the operation that has been carried out with Euskaltel. In fact, Euskaltel was never a public enterprise, but in addition to 40% of the Basque Government's participation, a very important amount, there is also a share of the savings banks. And, man, yes, after the sale of the savings banks, their participation and that of the Basque Government, we have lost the ability to intervene in the activity and in the direction that Euskaltel should have taken. But with Euskaltel, as with so many other companies, there has been a progressive process of decapitalisation and the leading role of the Basque Government in certain strategic companies, and to avoid that in order to put on the table the projects that are being carried out now for that digitisation and that process of innovation in the country, it is to avoid a part that is a priority for us and that should have been in achieving the economic development project of the country. And he was also talking about, in that ecosystem that needs to be generated, research and development. I mentioned this in my first speech; yes, it is, indeed, one of the elements that we do believe is fundamental, beyond the prosecutor (of the fiscal policy and structure that are articulated in the country). And you have also verbalized it to us in some committee, which, of course, has no intention of leading anything from the public with regard to research and development; if so, that there should be a private public collaboration in which the private is the one who leads the development axes. That, you have spoken to me like that, clearly, in some committee. We don't think it should be like this. We believe that, well, we will have to work with the private sector, but that under no circumstances should the private sector lead the research and development objectives that the Basque Government considers should be strengthened. In any case, we believe that the model should be revised, and we also believe that the situation towards which we are heading, with those ecosystems that seek to generate tax incentives, does not benefit citizens and what it does is to gradually destroy industrial and employment fabric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u72	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u73	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Soto, when I described the ecosystem in Euskadi, I lacked a relevant lever to which I do want to refer, because, moreover, the adviser is here. I believe that the talent part, the qualification of our people, deserves special attention. And I think a very relevant effort is being made for the little ones and the little ones from our homes, trying to prepare them for that future that is already here. At the university level we have four universities that are, of course, growing at the moment, but growing not in the number of students and in the number of presences, but in the perspective of their position in terms of education and their position in terms of R & D. And I believe that it is clear and that we have to recognise it. And an area of vocational training such as Basque, which is, of course, an example at European level, I think we also have to recognise it as part of that ecosystem. You told me about taxation. Taxation is only one of the components of the ecosystem, to which I have made no more than reference, since we also work with the administrations, the outlaws... But, as far as the Basque Government is concerned, of course, I think I have made a reference to what the Basque ecosystem means, which is certainly not 100% guarantee that there will be no difficulties. Of course, because, since we are not an island and are, of course, absolutely framed within a global context, everything that happens in the world furthest and nearest affects us. And, therefore, what we have to do is try to make that ecosystem help and respond to the needs of our company. And, of course, it's not avoiding our responsibility, it's trying to work together to grow, to respond to what we need. And he was talking about losing industrial employment. We have lost industrial employment in what was known or known as more traditional manufacturing industrial employment. However, we have grown up in another type of employment very closely associated with industry and which was perhaps much more statistically located in the field of services. But all that is, of course, the software services that are going to be needed and all the communication, information and communication technologies, by the way, that we were talking about and that are going to be not only necessary but essential for the development of the future – and not only from the point of view of digitisation but also for the energy field and the field of the climate crisis – must be located, at the moment, as industrial employment. And, of course, when we talk about the ecosystem to attract investment, I think we are not referring, of course, as a government to attracting funds of certain characteristics. We are talking about the attraction of very recent investments, for example, in the field of health, as was the case with Viralgen in Gipuzkoa, which has grown and which, of course, has been the result of that attraction and which they have rightly valued – we believe, of course, from the point of view of the Basque Government – what the ecosystem means to them. Or what was Progenika at the time, which is also born with the participation of public capital and which, at the moment, from the hand of Grifols is growing and is a very relevant actor in this pandemic that we are suffering, and of course it will be in the future. But, of course, when I talk to you about not just attending to the press, of course, I have told you that we have to attend and we are interested in the opinions we give, but I also tell you that it is important to attend to other kinds of information. And I'd give you an example, and that's the Basque case you've been studying at Harvard for quite a few years. And it is not studied because Harvard decides that Euskadi is the place of the world that is the best, come on, the interplanetary model, but because it has a number of different characteristics because of our way of acting and because we are a small country. Well, you study at Porter's hand, which I think, well, you know us pretty well and you study year after year at Harvard school. That's what I'm talking about. And, finally, you were talking about private leadership in R & D. Obviously, the government is not going to decide what to investigate CAF. However, the Science, Technology and Innovation Plan approved by the Council sets out the priority lines of action in R & D up to 2030. I believe that this is the objective and what the Government has to do in each of the priority areas and help to finance it. To contribute, I say, because maximum funding has to be of private leadership. The private has to get involved to really get the results it needs to be competitive in the world. We do not define, we should not lead what companies should investigate, but rather establish what are the priority lines, and I believe that the PCTI takes it perfectly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u74	Thank you, Mrs. tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "The question is, that the legislatures of the Ostera Galvirdos, made to the head physician of Economics, patience, and environmental development, about the future of the Gas of the Arabs." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u75	Good morning, good afternoon. Mrs. Tapia, today's question I registered on Friday, to see what you should do with the borings after you accepted the State Change Act. On Saturday, by means of the department's announcement, as the continued drilling doesn't make any sense, you announced that you refused. I'm glad you're able to cheat on her, a lot, and I congratulate you. I've been saying these drillings don't make any sense, they've never had one. And the last time we talked about this, I told you everything is against you: For protection, for citykeeping, for laws... That it didn't make any sense to follow. But you didn't give a damn, you've been fighting for it till the last minute. You told me that day that we wouldn't agree with this subject, and look where we finally agreed: There's no point in following it. I welcome you, Mrs. Tapia, but I also have questions. Why did the decision come so late? The question is also why you're hiding behind the patriarchal responsibility. And the question is, of course, which is the future of Hydrocarbulus de Basque.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u76	Thank you, Mr. Otero. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u77	Thank you. Mr. Otero, it's true that since Friday was registered, you might have made a little change today. And we agreed because the law we protected in Madrid doesn't speak only of gas, he talks about other things, and we agree, and I hope we agree here too. Nevertheless, in this law the gas has, in some measure, got its limits. It's not absolutely forbidden, it's true, but, as you mentioned, exploitation in this case, if you don't have any right now, it doesn't make any sense, because they can't be asked, they're forbidden, that's the way it is. But even so, it's true that the use of gas until 2042, because we know that gas is energy transitional, and I think we should accept that. We're not exploiting it here? It's true, and it doesn't make any sense right now, even if we have permission. And it's true that there's a responsibility here that we have to consider it. That's all, but we said, We'll keep the law, so there's no point in following it in that sense around the gas. But it is true that the laws have other matters, which are very well examined, and I think we ought to talk about it, about the future of renewed energy, and how we will do all this. For the more retractable of energy it was formerly mentioned by the Ecomitant President, the much easier we shall make this transition, and the less we must bring it in instead of the gas we don't exploit there. And that's important to us, too, because when I talked to you over and over again, that's what I was talking to you about: It is not so much to exploit here as to make use of what comes as little as possible from the outside.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u79	Yes, we'll talk more, we need to talk about energy. But I think it's a good day to give thanks to you, and I want to thank you for the election of the people and the ten thousand people who came against you, including a lot of Jesuits, I can't tell you what to do, and thank you for staying with people who signed the legislative of the community from 1030,000 people. For, thanks to these, all plans were delayed, we have no exploitations to-day, and the law which has been admitted to have stopped everything. Now, it is good news that you finally give up, but I think you should give some explanation about the money that has been buried in this meaningless project, because it has been millions of euros wasted, and I think your management is also touched by this fiasco. And finally, I want to raise another issue. Last week, on the line of Euskaltel, in an interview you made some statements – to me I was cold – or so you picked up at least what you said: "Our role, that of the government, is to start new sectors. We don't live in a communist country and the government doesn't have to be the owner." Euskadi Hydrocarbons, Mrs Tapia, is 100% public. What is it, that for fossil fuels you are a communist? Or what's the story? Or are you ultra-liberal with what's profitable and communist with what's not? But, of course, it is easy to defame what is common, Mrs Tapia, socializing 37 years of Euskadi Hydrocarbon losses, and the losses continue to increase. I, last time I told him I had a good chance to announce the end of the drilling effort before the doors were closed. He didn't do it, and reality has overtaken him. Today I think you have a good opportunity to announce that you are going to start the Euskadi Hydrocarbons closure procedure. And every day we go ahead with the closure of Euskadi Hydrocarbons is money that we save ourselves to be able to invest in the right direction. I think you have to hurry. And again, I want to end the second intervention as I have begun, and I want to thank all those who have foreseen and fought this absurdity from the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u80	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u81	Mr. Otero, to start following with what you were talking about. We were talking about SHESA and public enterprise or not. It is true that SHESA is a 100% public enterprise, but we are not going to hide the reality: where it participates, it does not participate 100%; in all those actions it carries out, it always acts with the hand of one or more private ones, with whom we have a series of responsibilities that are important – they can become responsibilities of property – and we always act in a minority. The same is true of those operations, not only in the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, but also of the other undertakings in which the Basque Energy Agency participates, which is 100% public, but not 100% public. Therefore, they are not the same thing both, and I would like to make it clear. When we talk about the issue of gas – I insist – the law itself talks about the year 2042 as well as the year in which the use of gas will end, the exploration and exploitation already existing, and whose actions at this time are, of course, not put at risk in the whole state and, well, throughout Europe, and I understand that something similar is going to happen in the world, because it is going to remain a transitional energy. And I would say to him and repeat to him, it is important that we agree on how we will stop not only exploring and exploiting in Euskadi, which is very good, but what is being explored and exploited elsewhere pollutes the atmosphere of the world exactly as if it were done in Euskadi. We are going to work – and our will is that – so that, if we really believe that renewable energy is going to be the transition energy to where we want to go and energy efficiency is also a way to consume less energy, we are going to work together to make it a reality. Gas here, no, but elsewhere too, the minimum.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the members of the U.S.C.A.S.A.S.A.S.S.A.S.A.S.A.S.S.A.S.S.A.S.A.S.A.S.A.S.A.S.A.S.A.S.A.S.A.S.A.S.S.A.A.S.A.S.S.A.S.A.A.S.A. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u83	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Today, the staff of Tubacex have completed 65 days to defend their jobs and their rights. The resistance and solidarity of 65 days, dedicated and raised in the struggle for all the workers of the Basque Country, a refractory, a symbol. Yesterday, the 95 fired by the boarders began, and from Amurrium to Gastize, a march started to denounce it, and here on the threshold of the parliament, the march is over. But I am not going to start talking about politics, but about the recognition of these people's efforts, their commitment, their strike, mobilizations, early mornings, sacrifices of time and money, doubts and convictions. Although, well thought out, I think there is nothing more political than that attitude, because looking at the problems and facing them from the collective struggle is one of the most political responses we can find in a society in which some want to impose the philosophy of "Save who can". A company like Tubacex, which works in a cyclical sector, there are years in which it has a lot of profits and years in which it has a lot of losses, and they are used to that, but you cannot respond to a situation generated by the crisis of the covid with layoffs and job destruction. And a government that claims to be concerned about decent employment and serious industrial policy cannot respond to a situation like this since inhibition and unconditional alignment with the company's theses and police action. So, Mrs. Tapia, what are you going to do to defend the job in Tubacex?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u85	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs. Blanco, before she began to answer the question, she must have commented on the question, and, as you have done now, that you are doing a great deal about the strike, about the job, and so on. Well, I'll try to talk about what we're doing from our section, but you know there are some things that are in a different section, more connected with jobs, strike, and conflict, but, as we are a government, I'll try to give you the best answer. We've been working with Tubacex for a long time, not just now, but from the beginning, that is, since we're in the government, and, I think, on one side with the company, but also with the workers' representatives, we've had meetings more than once. Of course, we develop industrial policies from our section, though we often work together with the Department of Work and Enplegu. And in this case, well, it has been stated that there was a conflict at this moment, and we offered our intermediary always, if from the Department of Job and Empulgu, two sides were required. And we must also know that both parties must demand it. And before I go into much more specific issues, I do want to point out one aspect to you, Mrs Blanco. There is one issue we were talking about with Mr Otero: the oil & gas situation is not short-term, it is not only the result of the pandemic; it is the result of many other actions that are not going to be recovered, and I think we need to be aware of the need for diversification and to look for a leap into the future, which is what we are working on from our department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u87	We cannot ignore the Government's response to this labour conflict, which is also critical of the Ertzaintza's attitude. An attitude that, beyond the defence of its obligations, has been sprinkled on many occasions with clear excesses; for example, by talking about the practice that has already been a common fact, how they have often made it difficult for trade union representatives themselves to enter the negotiating tables. Aiaraldea is dead to us, Mrs. Tapia. We're dead. Tubacex is one of the tractor companies in the region. To that must be added the closing of Valvospain very recently, with another 80 people fired. To this must be added more than one hundred auxiliary, autonomous, transport companies, which will also be affected, plus small business and hospitality, which will also be affected, but which already come wounded and wounded from behind. Genuine personal and family dramas are being experienced. Having taken possession of the affair of the Achaian, EH Collectan proposed to create a power in Parliament, to restore the country. And though this effort already produces fruits, we must declare that political answer must be strengthened. Tubacex has no doubt difficulties, but it is true that he can face this situation without being able to go out. This reduction of the planet does not plan from productive logic, but from the will to save money at the hands of the workers. Yesterday began to materialize the 95 redundancies, tragedies with names and surnames. But I do not want to demagogy, because we know that in the hands of the government it is not saving either every company or every job. But you, Mrs Tapia, seem to be making it clear: the company is always right. We, on the other hand, believe that more can be done, above all, if they want to achieve their objective of lowering the unemployment rate to less than 10%, because in Aiaraldea they will have difficulty; we are above 15. And in this case, well, in addition to analysing the situation, as you have also said at different tables and as Mr Urkullu said in a full control, they could have implemented corrective measures, because the analyses, moreover, I think it is advisable to do so for that. We think they could have done more. The difficult thing, if any, would be to do less, because industrial policy is not to be a notary of problems. Those who are giving it all defending their jobs are the workers of Tubacex, who are telling the employer that it is not so easy to fire. For them and for them all our recognition and support, because in Tubacex there is no one left.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u89	Mrs. Blanco, we agree, these are dramatic situations. And under no circumstances have we justified the situation. We have talked about the need for an agreement and we have made an appeal to both sides. Now, in addition to attending to the short term, which is what we are living in right now, we need to be aware that the future in Ayala of this kind of company that you were talking about, in addition to working on that paper, working with the mayors, working with all those involved, in what I believe is you and us, and the whole House, we need to think about the long term, in the medium and long term, that is, towards what kind of business can be diversified, towards what kind of action. And for that we have launched the Energy Intelligence Center, mainly focused on companies that today are dedicated to oil & gas and that have to diversify and work, perhaps, for example, in the hydrogen sector, where they are already making important efforts. Work with dual vocational training to ensure that these people have the training they need, in line with what they are currently working on and the positions they are going to have in the future. To work in accordance with what has been agreed at the Social Dialogue Bureau to ensure that Lanbide also re-establishes those people who are already unemployed or in a situation of change in activity, as has been raised at the present time. And let us be able through this Basque Employment Strategy, which was presented last Tuesday, which was approved by the Governing Council, to have a quality job, but above all, a future job. And in this case I believe that we are playing not only Aiaraldea, but a whole sector of companies associated with an area that is in full transition, in full transformation and for which, of course, we have to make the right decisions, from both the business and the government and, of course, from the workers' sphere. We all have to do it together. But, I insist, it is no longer a short-term pandemic problem, it is a problem that the pandemic has led to speed up its complicated situation. We were already coming from a critical situation and the pandemic has accelerated it. We have to transform this kind of action, and we have to put ourselves on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question, "about the necessity of establishing Eulegical Autonomy in all economics and public Administration in the leadership of the Esquimenia Eres." Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u91	Thank you. Madam Counsellor, I suppose we will agree that artificial intelligence is being configured as one of the most powerful global competitiveness axes. It is currently the technology with the greatest potential for change and social disruption. It represents a radical change in the rules of the game and is becoming increasingly a strategic factor in international relations and geopolitics. The race is no longer for being at the top of this issue, but simply for not staying out of the game, it is already very advanced, there are many agents who are competing in it with a lot of advantage and is very aggressive. The United States and China, as we all know, lead this race in which countries such as Canada, the United Kingdom, Israel, Korea, India and Japan also occupy prominent positions. China, for example, has announced that by 2030 it wants to be the leading country in artificial intelligence, both in research theory and in technology and applications. And for this he has announced the investment of nothing more and nothing less than 125 billion euros. No wonder he's one of the countries that's getting the most talent related to artificial intelligence at the international level; above all, talent with experience. The United Kingdom, Canada and France, closer to us in Europe, have strategic ambitions and are making important investments to also become global poles of artificial intelligence. Other countries and regions are specialising in certain aspects, following a niche strategy. India, for example, wants to become a garage of artificial intelligence specialized in testing specific applications. Australia's strategy focuses on the sectoral adoption of artificial intelligence, while Canada does so in scientific research and talent development. That is why I am asking you directly today, Counsellor, what strategy or concrete actions you are currently carrying out your advice to put Euskadi on the global map of artificial intelligence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u92	Thank you, Mr. Gil. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u93	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Gil, indeed, I agree with you that artificial intelligence is one of the most relevant levers for transforming our economy, and from that point of view you certainly know that on March 30th we approved in the Governing Council the Digital Transformation Strategy 2025, which has been referred to this House, where one of the main levers of action is precisely artificial intelligence, which will guide a series of actions that take place in each and every department, those aimed at public policies, where there is already – and I think I have commented on it in this House – a very relevant application in terms of translation of Castilian-Euskera, Basque-Castilian based on artificial intelligence and which, of course, is one of the best translators at this time – therefore the Administration is also using it – but we also need to be able to use it in all sectors of social life and business life. To this we will dedicate in the whole of the digitization 1.4 billion euros, but artificial intelligence, moreover, will be developed – in the part that belongs to me as department – in the industrial sector through what we call the Basque Artificial Intelligence Center, which is a center, we will say, in network, a center without own headquarters, but where all the technologies of the business part and of the part of our main technological centers, through a promoter group, are put in place and work a strategy very..., I do not know if I will say niche, but very applied to the needs of our business environment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u95	I didn't want to talk about the digital transformation strategy, just so we wouldn't get out of it. But, come on, it is that, in that strategy – which has given me time to read and which will, I suppose, have its corresponding parliamentary implications – the issue of artificial intelligence occupies a paraphyte. And I did look with interest to see if we found any more chicks there, because I was looking for him, but come on, I haven't found him. Anyway, I do want to tell you that we are not saying that nothing is being done, of course they are doing things – it would only be missing, as the subject is! – but on this subject I think we should not be neither conformists nor have self-satisfaction, because we are playing a lot, and the race with other countries and regions is really very difficult. You should not, I understand, rely on the efforts being made by other actors, such as universities, technology centres or private companies on your own. I ask you directly why you are doing your advice specifically. And I guess we'll agree, I guess you'll share with me that we need to create the conditions to turn Euskadi into an international reference in artificial intelligence. In other words, it is not about doing something, it is about turning Euskadi into an international reference in artificial intelligence, so that it is a real alternative to the economic sources that Euskadi has so far and that are in the process of declining, some of them. That is why I ask you not whether we are doing anything, but whether the Basque Government has a powerful and effective plan to place us on the world map of artificial intelligence in the short and medium term. I mean, don't you think the counselor that your department should take this issue much more seriously, make much more powerful investments and take the opportunity to turn artificial intelligence into a global reference? Euskadi is supposed to be working in some areas of action, but we do not think it is enough. Much more could be done; for example, a dedicated business park could be created on this subject with adequate infrastructure. Tax incentives for investment in artificial intelligence could be put in place. In short, it does not give me time to unravel the list of 20 measures I have here and could be done in this regard.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u96	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Your time is up. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u97	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Gil, I am ready to attend to you at any time and to talk about all these aspects. Of course, what we are planning to do through this action that I was commenting on is to create an important promoter group of those agents who are already internationally recognized to help us put in place a strategy that between their lines of action – and we will have the opportunity to talk about it, if it suits you – has to, first, identify what capacities we have at the moment and how we can grow them – and we have some capacities, in some areas, quite relevant –; promote, develop, retain and attract talent, which is going to be indispensable, and at the moment we do not have enough; connect and project companies with international networks to be able to grow our capacities; encourage new companies in the field of artificial intelligence, that is, enterprise also has to act in this direction. We have some very, very relevant companies in entrepreneurship, for example, that use artificial intelligence and that are internationally known, such as Sherpa, for example, or a company like Bunt Planet, which currently uses artificial intelligence to manage water and make us have far fewer losses. We have artificial intelligence companies on medical issues that are also relevant, then let's take advantage of those capabilities and make them always grow in those areas – which I told Mr. Soto – that we have established that they are priorities in Euskadi, which is where we have capacity. We deploy pilot projects throughout the territory of Euskadi and generate future work, lines of work that allow us to address new areas, in addition to those established in the PCTI. Those are the lines of action we're working on with that promoter group I was talking about. It is true, with technological centres, reference research centres in this area and with companies that are already working and have a tour. For what? Well, to grow on the basis of that knowledge and to be well connected internationally too, because I think it is one of the most important elements, as you said, with areas like Quebec, in Canada, with areas in Germany, with areas in South Korea, where, by the way, some of our companies are also there, working; that is to say, also constitute an international network that we are beginning to be part of and that we have that vocation that you said of leadership. I don't think we're in that position yet, but we have to walk towards it. So, well, I thank you for your willingness and I would like to be able to speak more deeply. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 15th point in the theme list: "I'm asking you, David Soso Rodríguz, together Podemos-Nozzeral members of the Antice Department of Economism and the Chief of Environmental Department, about being leader in the transformation of the Eustupulous oiling sector." Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u99	Madam Counsellor, as you said recently, the need to transform the oil refining sector is becoming more and more a reality. The change in mode of road transport means that in a short time electric and hydrogen engines will replace vehicles with combustion engines, as well as the necessary transformation in other sectors. Therefore, in view of the situation, what is the department doing to lead the transformation process in this sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u100	Thank you, Mr. Soto. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u101	Mr Soto, I believe that the oil refining sector, like everything associated with oil & gas, as we said, is in full transformation. But not because the government is leading it or not leading it, but because they are in the market and know what their needs are. However, from the Government we participate in this reflection that is mainly done from each of the companies, but also in the cluster, and where we act decisively. Then we'll have a chance to talk about it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u103	The oil refining sector has moved millions and millions of euros for years. Today too; there is a whole infrastructure developed with public and private money around obtaining fossil fuels. But this is not, as you well know, the only use that can be given to oil as a raw material. There is a petrochemical industry here that has not been exploited in its full capacity to obtain polymers of all kinds. In the petrochemical industry, an endless number of non-combustion products can also be obtained for energy generation. We are not going to deal with this now because there would not be time to deal with it either, but I would like to put on the table what was also evident today with the concentration of Tubacex, and it is that this process of transformation of the sector also requires an adjustment in relation to employment. And here we believe that, in fact, the Basque Government accompanies, participates – as you rightly say – but does not lead the solution. The current transformation of the sector is also going to be linked, as you said before, to a necessary transformation and relocation of a large part of the people working in this field. And this is where we and we see a lack of leadership on the part of the Basque Government. The forecast of change in the refining sector is already coming long, and the Basque Government has not led the process of change in terms of transformation into employment. We cannot encounter situations like those we have experienced in relation to Aernnova, ITP, Tubacex, Alestis, Gestamp... Reality and forecasting should have been given in advance. And we are already in a situation that is dramatic enough in many cases so that today we are in a process of starting the sector's conversion and adapting employment. We therefore believe that this sector cannot be linked to an uncontrolled explosion, but that the Basque Government must make and lead a planned transformation and, above all, with regard to the qualification and adaptation of employment so that people do not remain on the streets without options for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u104	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u105	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Soto, I will give you some concrete examples of what we have been doing as a Basque Government with the sector. First, in 2010 we already constituted a society that was not 100% public, through the EVE, called Ibil, with – precisely – Repsol-Petronor, to electrify mobility, then we were already talking in 2010 about one of the areas of diversification towards an electric vehicle and towards the charging units of that electric vehicle, which are critical for its future. Secondly, all the collaboration with the rest of the administrations, in this case the Bizkaia Provincial Council, to attend to that diversification to which we referred earlier, through the launch of the Energy Intelligence Center; that is, how we are going to move all that fabric, all those companies, to – for example – stop being manufacturers of all kinds of elements necessary in the process of gasification or oil refining to move towards a green hydrogen: how we are going to do it, through what measures, with what types of accompaniment and in what sense. That's on the move, too. And, of course, ecosystems with itineraries and programs that facilitate this change through training, both university – and I said earlier – and Vocational Training. But also through this commitment at the Bureau of Social Dialogue with Lanbide, to reconfigure these people: so that they can be versatile in a multitude of jobs within the company or that they can modify and change jobs through such reconversion. Of course, they are plans that have been in place for a long time, they are not new, but this type of modification in a productive fabric, as has been as relevant as that of oil, refining or gas, takes time and requires joint action; but it is not new and is being worked on. And, of course, one of the elements we have put in place at the moment is, precisely, a special programme for the diversification of these companies, not only of the large ones but also of those smaller suppliers, which are essential for such a transformation to take place. A programme this year of EUR 11 million for precisely diversifying and transforming itself. I think this is the way we have to go, helping this whole sector. And there's one thing that's going to allow me to disagree a little bit, and it's that I was telling myself that, of course, you can use that whole refining sector to set up different types of polymers through the electrochemical industry. The bet that we have made, of course, from the Government through the strategy of circular economy and bioeconomy, is to place a special emphasis precisely on bioeconomy, that is, all kinds of materials and all kinds of actions through, for example, all that is forest, forest bioeconomy, but not the only one, to truly transform that sector, to gradually avoid all those hydrocarbons that generate greenhouse gases and not to use them for one thing or another, and to make the transformation towards new materials based on that bioeconomy. That's the way we work and what we're at right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 16th point in the theme list: "Ask me, Josu Estarrona Elizdo EH Collectors of the Union, made for Economics, and Chief of Ogas, who in time of pandemia increase the profits for the payment of a tax." Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u107	Thank you. Good noon, everyone. Due to the great social and economic wants of Pandemia, many public and private resources must be mobilized in a context which has been reduced by tax revenues. Expenses do not match money funds. We've got more space to pay, yes, and we've got to get paid according to our needs, but we need to talk about financing and financial regrets when the income is diminished. Speaking, designing, and making decisions, as the pandemia has increased differences and cracks. And in this direction, on the 17th of December 2020, this group of parliaments brought a proposal about the covid rate, and it was not accepted, either because the groups supported the government had opposed it. But last week the International FMI, declared that the large wealth and corporations, especially when the profit increases during the pandemia, should pay an annual bond rate to the relief of the crisis. This is where the Basque People proposed the proposition of the covid rate in the Parliament. The Socialist and revolutionary, who is not a Lobster, and is far from our economic political positions, has this point assigned by the FMI. That's why we ask you, chief physician, if you agree now, at pandemy time, those who increase the profits in the gardening of a gratuity.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u108	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u109	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Estarrona jauna, I am sure that you have had the opportunity to listen repeatedly over the last year to my position about changing the tax system right now. And it's my position, even the parties that protect the fun and the forum, that 2021 isn't the year to raise taxes or raise new tax funds. You know it's time to face the consequences of COVID-19 using public debts. We thus place it in the design of the ancients of Euscadi, and thus we continue to trace it until the economy resumes its course and gives us the growthal stages which will place the pandemia in front of us. Since the adoption of the budget in February, we have also issued, as you know, EUR 1.2 billion, with a sustainable bond issue of EUR 1 billion, which has been widely accepted in the markets. This means that the Basque Government has the confidence of investors, and that is due to the soundness of our public accounts. Mr. Estarrona, if anything needs our businesses and our citizenship right now – and I think all of us – it's certainty. Taxation cannot be changed at a helm or at a very concrete juncture that will sooner or later turn to the better. You know that the Basque Government's economic forecasts envisage an increase of 6.7% by 2021 and 5.7% by 2022. If I transfer it – and this is something also known – another question is to think about what the taxes of the future are going to be. In this regard, both the Government and the outside parliaments are engaged in a process of reflection and analysis of the results of the fiscal reform of the years 14 and 18, and also of the challenges of the future that all the institutions of this country face. The conclusions of this analysis will lead to any fiscal changes that may be made, but it does not touch at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u110	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u111	Yeah. The implementation of a covid rate does not require too much tax change. It is a matter of will, Mr Azpiazu. And in order for other tax reforms to be put into effect by 2022, we believe that we must start designing and talking about them. It is therefore up to us to talk about tax reforms and tax changes. And the increase of the increase of the increase of public expense (in %) When he brought about 15-16, as you said yesterday in a conversation, when we had a discount at 9.8%, this has caused the increase of deficit. And therefore we say that there is need of extraordinary financial mechanism in the face of extraordinary situations. After all, the discussion or question that lies behind the proposition of the covid rate is, "How is the trial paid?" "and "How will the bill be paid? "I don't know. And we clearly see that this crisis demands a collective effort and a collective effort, but we also see that the majority of them will have to pay more, que paguemás quien más Tiene. While the Gross Domestic Product has suffered a significant global fall and in the case of the Basque Autonomous Community by approximately 9,5 %, the Forbes top ten has increased its fortune by 68,1 %. It's now worth 0.96 billion euros. "Let evil live, let capital live!", as a fellow banker said this very week. And this trend is structural. And, with the covid rate, what we are proposing is, precisely, that those who have increased their fortunes as a result of the pandemic situation take out the wallet and apoquine, in order, for example, to strengthen increasingly marred public services and thus be able to balance the balance a little bit. Eta nik you had the moment of the zerga-reform bati ekiteko, 2022 year – precisely – indarrean egon ahal izaziko. Azpiazu jauna, zuk zeuk esanda, 2022 year gehiago zorpetu beharko race. Hori, zuk esan duzu. Zergatik gehiago zorpetzearen beharraz hitz egin erabaki daiteke orrain, momentu honetan? Now you're playing? Eta zergak ukitzeaz, isn't he playing now? Why don't you play? And don't come to me with the excuse, which has already taken it out of the evaluation of its last fiscal reform at the hands of the People's Party. You've been evaluated for two years. Over two years. They are everywhere discussing different methods of planning, of arguing: The highways in the United States, the OCDEs, the BCE, most European countries, the Spanish Governments... And here, arms folded? Turn it over to Europe, start studying the covid rate and applying it this year. He will not suppose a great increase in collecting money, but his disposition would express a choice and send a message, a logical, reasonable, and just message: more effort, those who have more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u112	Mr. Estarrona, your time is up. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u113	Yes, thank you. The yellow star, the International Monetary Fund, to which you have referred, of course, also refers to other issues to which you have not referred. And I'm just going to quote you five. First, to support economic recovery and employment, and greater commitment to R & D. Look, we have the Berpiztu programme, as you know, and this very week a government employment plan has been presented. In addition, in the Highly Vulnerable Areas Support Plan we have increased public investment to 955 million, and R & D & I by 9.7 %. Second, greater public spending effort, a budget that has increased by €770 million. Direct aid to companies and sectors affected, more than 300 million direct aid through departments, i.e. no cuts. Support for households and families. You are already familiar with family support programmes in the area of protection, housing and conciliation. Credits on favourable terms for enterprises and self-employed persons, as established by the Government's line of financing through Elkargi. And I could go on, but I'm gonna finish what I started, Mr. Estarrona. Now you don't have to raise taxes. It is true, that is, it is a fiscal principle that pays the most, that is obvious, it is a progressive system, but we will apply that in the tax system that we will implement when appropriate. It is important to generate certainty and to bet on a public spending strategy that allows the deployment of policies with greater leverage, greater multiplier effect on the economy as a whole in the short and medium term. I want to make one point: I want to say that the budget execution for 2020 was 96.7%, the highest execution of all the autonomous communities of the State. In the case of health, for example, 99%, and in education 100%. The government spends, and it spends what it has. It is important to stimulate the economy at this time and to recover the lost jobs, and the Government is in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u114	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "The Internation, made by the members of the Ubeka Aranz and EH Collectors to the head of the Medical Department, in order to regulate the eucanasia of the Three/2021 Organic Laws." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u115	Good morning, everyone. Mrs. apple. Well, in the end, we have the Eutanasia Law to rejoice and to congratulate. It is not what we would have liked in this end of life to receive the determination of men in general; but at least it acknowledges the right of asking and receiving help to die, by regulating the procedures to follow, and the necessary guarantees, when the conditions of the law are fulfilled. We're not going to question or discuss the law now, because it took a lot of time to get here. It has cost too much, too much, too much suffering. That's why I want to remind myself of the collectives who have worked in the course of the Eutanasia law for years, especially the right to kill the Basque Society with DMD-Duninity, and many families who have contributed to it, finally accept that right and become the law. It is observed in this subject, that when the people are engaged, when they fight, the means of answering the concerns and affairs of society are opened when they are necessary, and when they are engaged in institutions. We now have a new right, received in an organic law, but this right must be carried out. The law must be established in order to ensure this right to the people, or if the law does not develop, we shall remain as before. And in this sense we have our doubts, what will the government's will be to the development of this law. As a matter of fact, we've always seen EAEE's chief partner in the government with great doubts about this matter, even though he's shown a firm attitude in Madrid. I remember how much it cost in the legislature of 2016 to advance the Death Duina Act in this Chamber. I remember, too, how we finally managed to get ahead, and the development is becoming quite similar. We're also seeing what's going on with the projecting of the preliminary acts of will. If we go to the law, Eustanasia the Law published in March 25th, where we see that it is received in the fourth regulation of this law, that it must be published, and put in force for three months. But there is one exception in the article 17, which enters force the following day; that is, the formation of the Presumption of Berme and Eve, enters force from the next day, and consequently must be established in force. And you should already have begun to define the plan of development of the Eutanasia Law in the Medical Department, preparing the tools. For starters, preparing the Berme and Evaluation Committee, right? For the most part, what will be the key, what will be the key for the people to quickly accomplish with all their guarantees. And we are concerned about its constitutions, because the procedure has been fairly complicated, on the pretexts of guarantees, and because the committee we have mentioned cannot become a tapoon or a committee of the law which is accepted? What we need is really a light, dynamic committee that will really have means to facilitate and confirm the habits of public deliberation. But the question is: Has the Medical Department begun with the formation of Berme and the Oblucation Board? What criteria will he do? What means will he put into the hands of this commission? Will he give that board an open character? I mean, when the law begins to develop, will this committee have a chance to adapt and correct the possible dysfunctions to the maintenance of the right things and the things that are wrong? Baina, stripe, Berme eta Ebaluazio Batzorde ha atal bat besterik ez da. Osasun Sailaren zeregina haratago does. Organic law 13.2 artikulua bear argia da. Honako hau jasotzen du, hitzez hitz: "Public health services, within their respective spheres of competence, will apply the precise measures to guarantee the right to the provision of aid to die in the circumstances and with the requirements set out in this law". So you have to specify EAE. You have to get it in your ready bag, you have to get it in the service bag. And we need to know how particular we will be in service of the EAE, in order to ensure that right to the people. And this is not a joke: we must have another preparation in our service-book because we have a new right. Around this, the right to kill DMD-Duinity has made a very deep and extensive document, very elaborate, which has been placed in the hands of all the groups, and they are ready to assist in this cultivation. And I think that's gratitude and consideration. In our humble opinion, there are certain fields, criteria, means, which should be considered. But that's why the Department of Health has to make an investment, put in the means, and be ready to open it. Mr. Below is not here now, but we'll have to ask Mr. Sub-Azu to open his box. And to begin with, necessarily, the means we have already got must be strengthened. And you'll say: "But what are the intermediates? "I don't know. Now these intermediates are the first precautions, the sphere and record of preconceived wills. We already have them, but in the development of this law there will be also hooks, so that we can begin to strengthen them also. But in the first place, I think this to ourselves... "Well, for us and for all the world, it will be essential, and I hope also to the Department of Health that the new right must be spread among the people, and that the new right must be given to them. This is the key. Then each of us will see whether he wants to use or not when his time comes, but people must know that he has a new right. It is necessary to give people information, to show what it is to be, what the process will be, what its interlocutors will be, what its means, where it will be able to go, and so on. And here, the Health Department should make a great publicity and marketing like the one that's doing with the covid implant campaign. What's good is to make a campaign like he's made with the Pretial Wills Document, because it's hardly done. But here the Health Department should invest and have an important job at home. Now, Mrs. Coodui will tell us if she's ready for it or not. Then, on the other hand, other fields should be cultivated. The health professionals must be informed and formatted. They must also be formed through the professions of the medical professions and the contents of the studies. In integrated sanitarian organizations, we have to create teams. We need to know how we're going to make a medical officer, a medical adviser in what criteria we're going to appoint him. In order not to exhaust the deadlines and not to reach the maximum period, we design the process so as quickly and as fast as we can. We need to know also what kind of profile the health professionals will be involved in this process. Different jobs, right? How do we complete the compact EAE network? A lot of business, with the Medical Department, to place this new right in three months to the hands of the people. But today it's not just what we'd do as we collected EH, but what we want to know today, Mrs. Cedui, what steps the Medical Department is already doing, or what steps the Medical Department will take from now on to fulfill the Eutanasia law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u117	Mr. President of the Parliament, Congressmen, good days all of you. In order to give a direct and rapid answer, the EukMalk will do what the law itself predicts and promises-that is to say, what the administrative authorities have to do to give them their sanitative services. In this case, the Institution of the Office of Berme and Eveluation, the formation of a training committee, the establishment of the same preparation, the published and published of the law, the public being able to know what rights they have, the creation of a clerk of professionals, and the formation of the documentation necessary for all transferations, from demand to the final register. We shall do so for three reasons: and the third because we believe in this right, and vote for the law which regulates that right. As the representative of the Jeltzaan Party of the Eucta, the eumancipation is a right, and not a duty. An example of the legislature's empathy with people who have a Calvary. These people are no longer capable of legal suffering. This law is for those who have not enough comfort to relieve their condition. As the chief physician of health, I must observe and execute this law, which has already had its social and political discussions; but I shall declare, I think, that it is a very reforming law in its procedures, which defends the rights and wills of all men, both of those who seek to obtain a benefit from death, and of the health-professional which these practices are unconsciously opposed to action. The Euthanasia Act was a legal instrument demanded by the vast majority of society. A law that, according to the competence of Euskadi in the field of health, obliges us to take a series of actions that guarantee its compliance. The first is the creation of the Committee on Guarantee and Evaluation, which involves the designation of its components, mainly among the members of the committees on care ethics and the committees on ethics of social intervention of the outlaws; the publication of the organizational decree setting up the committee and of the order of the health adviser who will appoint its members nominally; the meeting of constitution and proposal for rules of procedure of internal order; the authorization of the rules of procedure of internal order. The rest of the actions necessary to ensure compliance with the law with all guarantees, both for applicants and for the professionals who must provide the service, are as follows: in the field of information and awareness, yes, publication of the law and the report on euthanasia of the Euskadi Committees of Ethics on the website of Osakidetza and the Department of Health – the publication, moreover, must be pedagogical for the citizenry and also contain the answers to the most frequent questions –; publication on the Osakidetza intranet of the law and the relevant explanations from the technical, ethical and legal points of view; presentation of the law and the development actions to the health organizations of Osakidetza with the support of the care ethics committees; dissemination of these contents among professional medical and nursing colleges, as well as between private health centers, concerted or not, and socio-health centers. There are also plans to create a register of conscientious objector health professionals to assist in dying. As I have explained, this is a law that guarantees both the rights of persons who want to be assisted in this process and the rights of professional persons who do not want to participate in it. This record requires the design of the statement document of conscientious objection, the design of the record itself, which must contemplate its location, custody, access, maintenance, etc. From the point of view of administrative processing, the official documents of the procedures referred to in the law must be designed and published: application for the provision of medical aid for death; refusal of the provision of medical aid for death; informed consent; report of the medical consulting staff; briefing document of the Chair of the Guarantee and Evaluation Commission by the responsible medical staff; favourable or unfavourable resolution of the Guarantee and Evaluation Commission on the authorization of the provision of aid for death; first and second communication documents to the Guarantee and Evaluation Commission following the provision of aid for death. There are others derived from the application of the law, such as changes in the electronic medical record to ensure the confidentiality of records and facilitate the work of the responsible medical staff and consultant, as well as of the commission itself, which requires the creation in Osabide, electronic medical record, a new computerized guide with new forms, routes, documentary repositories, etc. And finally, the creation of the official euthanasia registry. This registration should not take place within the time of entry into force of the law, as it does not require the law to create it. It is the intention of the Department of Health to address its creation throughout this year. All this is designed and the route is established with a specific working group that has been addressing this task since the adoption of the law, from the very moment of the adoption of the law; group in which we work staff of the Department of Health and Osakidetza, and, in fact, the order for the establishment of the commission that is established, the Guarantee and Evaluation Commission, is already signed. We are in the process of implementing this law and that those who wish to make use of this right can do so properly accompanied by the staff of our health service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u119	I am glad that this law is of importance to this Government, and we hope that it will be so opposed to the law, and so prove it to us, for it is very important for us, because we have waited for many years and have worked for it to come here, because worthy lives deserve worthy deaths, and that every man may have a right to determine his death and be assured of it. I have a doubt left. I've seen that you've begun an initiative, and we're glad, but for a moment I've been disappointed, because you've told me first that you've planned it. You've already enumerated a number of performances like the prolific, the training, the registration, the document making, the expansion, but then you said they're already designed, aren't they? Then there's a little doubt about whether it's a preview or whether you're already on the road. I can see that you have already signed it, but I'd be grateful to you for the second round to explain what you've just said. I want to tell you, too, that reading the law does not determine the law. The law says that this preparation must be issued by the Administration with its jurisdiction. It explains the immediacy, and other accounts, but then the specification doesn't get them. And those specifications, the corresponding administration, in this case, has to put down the health department and the New Year's Department. And with what criterion and how these intermediates are to be developed, it remains in the air. For example, you mentioned the expansion. And the expansion is very important for us. And what you mention is that it will hang on the web, that it will be intranslated, that it will spread to the committee, but we ask for more. That communal campaign you're doing with the Czechs, that you're in the press all the time. Because who gets into the website? That is to say, on TV, that there is a new right to the public, the procedure to fulfill that right, the procedure to which the interlocutors will be, the means must be opened. People need to know him. And what it couldn't be was... For otherwise what has happened to us with the Document and register of Pretivity. And even with this record, we can't have what happened with the Bill of Preticiary Wills. And that's where we need to put the resources. In truth, the means and means of developing ought to be established, all those resources which have hitherto not been established to ensure a worthy death, although the right is here secured. And the same with training. Look at our first attention. Look at our first attention. Then the means must be given to them for a true form. It is not useful to send a small video via the web, or to send a document; but you should be quick, effective, and good. And then, you mention, and I've already told you about the Diaster, the medical examiner and the medical advisor, haven't I? How they are determined, how they are named, that they are the most trusted person in the profession of their medical care, that they are really expert in this matter, and that they are not-I know-a pathological specialist. There are so many exactness in this plan of which you have been speaking, that they must be developed, and must be received. And then we have the management of clinical history, right? To put the circuits there so that they can guarantee their confidentiality. So what we really expect is to develop this law, and in three months we had three months' time to put in force to get in, in order that this committee should not be the committee of eucalypæsia, but the committee which will guarantee that it is really there. Those who will not have it, may be excluded, but it is the duty of the government, of the Medical Department, and of the Administration to secure this right to all the citizens who want it so. And we think that there's a great challenge for you. And a nice challenge to open other ways in our society...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u121	Yes, it's a new law, we're in a new reality, a new protocol and administrative procedure. And yet a short period of unusual filling since it was published for three months-that is to say, the 25th of June 2021. It is our duty, and we will do it, but we think it is too short a time to do all the activities necessary. Anyway, we're working on it. In this period there are two exceptions: 17. The Article stands for a Prediction, and a Presumption of the Conjugation; and is to be published, and to be established the next day. So that means that each member of the autonomy group has to perform the necessary activities in order that this committee may be operational on the 25th of June. The function of this committee is essential, because it is necessary to appreciate the demands of getting a death that is supported. And we foresee that this committee may be extensive and inconstant. The first step, then, as I said before, is given. Another exception is to coordinate a constant and specific preparation on the help of death. This preparation will be held in a year's time by the permanent preparation of the Sanitarian professions, beginning with the establishment of the law. But as we understand that we cannot wait so long as we understand it, we have foreseen that this formation, the progress of this preparation between all our workers and professionals, began with a few of the first, and added it to our whole organization. As has already been said, this formation, this preparation on the principle of evolution, at least if we are writing and we are ready, so that it may be preserved. In fact, this course will be offered in June to a first professional group, then to the more professionals and seniors and to the more professionals in the field of destitution and in private areas. Euskaki, as I said, has determined the way. The working groups are beginning to start, and accuracy will be the result of this work. We know there are a lot of things to determine, but that's why we've built the crews. Euskaki will do his duty and do it in time and order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The 18th point in the subject list: "Interface, the popular group of Laura Garrido Knörres, the members of the Ciudadans, members of the Medical Department, introduced into the detection of the virus, and the danger factors of danger." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u123	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Good morning, congressmen. Good morning, chief of departments. Well, I run an interpelation for the government, about the pandemia. As we all know, the stage is very serious, according to data. And here also I think it's necessary to make a reflection about the measures that RedMingon has set up, and to direct the new measurements. Without a doubt, the current scenario is complicated in relation to the pandemic. And from the health point of view we are clearly immersed in the fourth wave, with an absolutely triggered transmission of the virus, with an accumulated incidence rate of 450 contagions per 100,000 inhabitants, Bilbao and Vitoria as provincial capitals with the worst incidence rate in Spain, the ICUs are already very saturated (130 patients, as the lehendakari reminded us today), with new variants, apart from the British, which has a great impact in the cases that are detected, the South African and already new contagions caused by the Nigerian variant. There is no doubt that vaccination plans have also been disrupted with what has happened with the AstraZeneca and Janssen vaccines, apart from the changes in criteria regarding the age of vaccination of the AstraZeneca vaccine. There has also been great uncertainty, of course, among those who have injected a first dose and who are obviously waiting to know what solution will ultimately be arbitrated for this group of people who have already been vaccinated with the first dose of AstraZeneca. In addition, great uncertainty has been generated in connection with the end of the state of alarm on 9 May. And from the People's Party we have been calling for amendments to the current legislation for the past year, since we are immersed in this situation, so that we do not have to systematically resort to a state of alarm, which also needs the approval of the Congress of Deputies, not the first time, but the successive ones. And, of course, the autonomous communities cannot be systematically at the expense of the corresponding state of alarm being decreed or approved, but it is necessary for them to have a normative umbrella that gives them legal certainty in order to take those measures that are necessary to deal with the pandemic. We must remember that, throughout this year, the response of the Executive of the Socialist Party and of Podemos, supported by the Basque Nationalist Party – I say supported because it is a government that is supported and supported by the Basque Nationalist Party; the Government of Madrid, the Government of Spain, is supported and supported by the Basque Nationalist Party – has been the inoperation and absolute inaction on this issue, in the face of the insistence of the People's Party. We also proposed the amendment of ordinary legislation, in particular the Organic Law on Special Measures in the Field of Public Health. And today I am pleased to hear Lehendakari speak this morning about amendments to this specific law, to the Law on Special Measures for Public Health, because throughout this year, and despite the great influence of what they boast, both the Basque Nationalist Party and Mr Urkullu, in the Government of Spain, I have not heard anything about the amendments that had to be made in the legislation. At least, if it hadn't occurred to him – which seems to have not occurred to the lehendakari – he could have joined the proposals of the People's Party, which have been repeated and insistent in this matter. Of course, we have a lehendakari who went from calling the state of alarm a covert 155 to being his greatest defender now. I believe that, in the end, the reading or the conclusion to which this whole situation leads us is that the pandemic has also served to put each and every one of us in front of the mirror of what is the raw reality and where, without a doubt, the priorities of the citizens are. In Euskadi. What is happening in Euskadi so that, despite being one of the autonomous communities with the most severe restrictions, we have one of the highest rates of infection? The situation, Lehendakari also told us this morning that it is bad, but, well, no doubt, we believe it is worse in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. I have already said before, at the beginning of my intervention, that there are provincial capitals such as Vitoria and Bilbao that are at the head of the contagions in the ranking of all the provincial capitals of Spain. I believe that it is not acceptable to be said, as the Lehendakari also said this morning here, or I think it is not understandable to be told that the most appropriate answer is being given. I believe that the most appropriate answer is not being given, because, obviously, if we were to give an appropriate answer, the figures would not be the figures we have right now. Therefore, I think there is a need for reflection in Euskadi, because it is clear that something is not being done right or something is being done wrong. And we are going to put on the table a number of issues that we believe are relevant, on which we need to emphasize at the moment. We believe, as I said the other day, Madam Counsellor, in the committee, that there has been no real epidemiological analysis of the causes of infection and outbreaks. We don't know where the contagion is taking place in Euskadi. Decisions are being taken, but we do not know what percentage of infections occur in the family, in the family environment, in the hospitality sector, in the public transport sector, in the business sector... I believe that this is essential in order to be able to draw attention to the measures that must be put in place, those measures that are necessary to tackle the pandemic. It is clear that, in addition – it also takes place within a changing scenario like this one in which we live – the capacity for anticipation and prevention is absolutely essential. And it is very well to demand and claim also – and I join that government's request – the demand to comply with the measures to the citizens, but the government must also anticipate what is coming. And, in that sense, we do not understand how the mass concentrations prior to the end of the King's Cup in Bilbao and San Sebastian could be allowed when it was known that they were going to involve a high degree of transmission of the virus. That's what we knew! Therefore, the Government had to have planned and prevented mass concentrations, which also produced public disturbances, posed a clear health risk, and is now being seen in the growing contagion. The question we are asking many citizens is why it has been so restrictive with specific areas such as hospitality – which, moreover, I do not say that they do not have to be taken, but what is clear is that the Basque Government has not properly justified them, because we do not know where the contagions occur in Euskadi, we do not have that map of contagion and transmission of the virus – and how then it has been so permissive, now, with the concentrations that have occurred with the finals of the King's Cup. I believe, Madam Counsellor, that there is also a lack of pedagogy, what measures are there to explain them well, what are the most important ones, whether they are understood, what is being done to ensure their true compliance, because there are many citizens who are somewhat astonished when we see concentrations in certain areas, in public transport, in shops, in certain areas of the street... It is not a question of a police officer in every corner, but it is a question of at least a certain order can be safeguarded, the enforcement of measures, and that is the obligation of the different governments and the different administrations, each with competence in this matter. The tracking network has deficits, it is not working properly to stop the transmission chains of the virus. We don't know the origin of the contagions, that chain of possible contagions. I was already telling you the other day, you were saying no, but the media have followed with the same thing, that the traceability index in Euskadi is one of the lowest. There is no vaccination plan with groups to prioritize and groups inserted in each group. What about the high-risk patients, counselor, who are not currently on the Osakidetza radar? Chronic diseases aren't on Osakidetza's radar, because they're telling us every day. Those patients are not being vaccinated, and those patients had to be given priority when they were vaccinated. That is why we have formulated this inquiry, if you are prepared to correct specific aspects in relation to the deficits detected in the vaccination process. We believe, more than ever, Madam Counsellor, that we must clarify the remaining doubts, generate confidence, give clear and understandable messages, and, above all, coherence, coherence in measures and, above all, correct these shortcomings, which many of them have put on the table.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u124	Thank you, Garrido, ma'am. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u125	Look, Mrs Garrido, there is one thing you have said in which we do agree, that the Autonomous Communities must have legal tools to ensure that we take the necessary preventive measures immediately and with guarantees. I am glad to hear you say that the autonomous communities must have sufficient tools. From there, it is true that he has lost me, then, at a time of his intervention, because he has started to talk about the lehendakari, but I will return to the interpellation. It raises three issues: aspects that will stop the high spread of the covid, traceability of tracing and vaccination of vulnerable groups. I, above all, believe that this third aspect was sufficiently clear to you in my intervention last Wednesday in the Health Committee, but no; then, as I said to you, I am not going to tire of repeating what preventive measures we have established, of repeating the importance of their implementation and of repeating how important it is for each and every one of us and ourselves to raise the responsibility we have for the spread of this pandemic, I am going to reply to you again. With regard to the spread of the virus, you know very well what measures are being taken in Euskadi to contain the pandemic. They are, many of them, the same as the rest of the autonomous communities and countries of the environment have taken, adapting them, in each case, to the situation of the territory, in this case, to the situation of Euskadi and to the spread of the covid. I'm going to remember the most important ones again. Euskadi perimeter closure, municipal and territorial perimeter closures when the cumulative incidence rate of cases in 14 days exceeds 400. And in these same municipalities, partial closure of the interior of hotels, with limited activity, also sports. And, of course, also personal measures: correct and continuous use of the mask and maintain physical distance, avoid as much social contact as possible with non-living persons, especially in closed spaces; avoid as much social interaction as possible between non-living persons; suspend or postpone all social activities and avoid meetings in closed spaces, including homes; maximize ventilation of closed spaces and, of course, frequent hand washing. It is the fulfilment of these measures that will correct the evolution of the pandemic. You yourself also admitted it to the Health Commission. They're strict measures. With regard to the second, traceability, tracking work. Since its implementation, the screening teams have had two objectives: the first, priority, to detect as soon as possible, through direct contacts of people who have developed the disease or have been positive to a diagnostic test, to other infected people, to isolate them as soon as possible and to continue avoiding the spread. This includes the direct and positive contacts of those who, for one reason or another, have to go to health centres and are tested. These are the people we include in the concept of traceability that is brought to the ministry. And that means over 50% of all positive cases of Euskadi, over 50% before they are aware that they are suffering from the infection. There is a second goal in the tracking network: to know in which physical environments positive people have moved in the last few days, to know if there are coincidences with other positive ones. That gives us information about the environments in which the contagion occurs, and we provide information on it. This is the aspect that is not included in the data provided to the ministry, by Euskadi, when talking about traceability. And the tracking teams are also up to date on their tasks. All positive cases of each day are tracked today in Euskadi, with more than 700 professionals dedicated to this. And we also apply the backtrack, and they know it. I regret, indeed, that in these respects you are more echoed by media information than by parliamentary information. With regard to the third theme, he said in his presentation, and he had also repeated it in his intervention, that priority had not been established for those patients who were polymedical, oncological, in medical follow-up or already treated, metabolic, vascular, that primary care doctors had not been consulted on the pathologies of their patients and the risk of them, and that they were therefore not being prioritized in the vaccination process. There is no data on which you can support yourself to say that. There's no reality about it. I have already commented to you, more than once, to consult the strategy document where it establishes which are the very high risk patients and which are the high risk patients. This is clearly stated in the COVID-19 vaccination strategy, which is drawn up not by a counsellor or a political group, but by a technical COVID-19 vaccination working group of the programme presentation and vaccination registration. With five updates on this; the last one, March 30. It is available on the website of Osakidetza and also, if you wish, on the website of the Ministry of Health. And that's where they describe the conditions that predispose people to a higher risk of serious illness and death in the face of SARS-CoV-2 infection. And it is said that they should be taken into account in prioritization for vaccination. In the review of scientific evidence, do you know what is the criterion of the highest risk of death to COVID-19? Age, age. This is the main high risk factor for serious illness and death. Then, that is, under certain conditions, by some to which you have referred. Taking all this into consideration, and in collaboration with the scientific societies grouped in the Federation of Spanish Scientific-Medical Associations and the coordinations from the National Plan on AIDS, the different conditions that can be considered to be of very high risk have been evaluated. The conditions that have been considered in this prioritization are: hematopoietic progenitor transplantation, solid organ transplantation and waiting list for solid organ transplantation, renal replacement treatment, haemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis, oncohematology disease, cancer of solid organs in cytotoxic chemotherapy treatment, metastatic or radiotherapy with tumours of thoracic location at risk of pneumonitis, primary immunodeficiencies, HIV infection with less than 200 cells per cubic millimeter of blood, despite being in treatment with antiretrovirals effectively and undetectable viral load, Down syndrome at 40 years of age and older. These people, it is established that they will be vaccinated between the 70-79 age group, if they have not been vaccinated by age before. In addition, messenger RNA (mRN) vaccines (mRN) will be used in order to complete the immunization process in the shortest possible time. And that's what we're doing in Euskadi. And not only that, but on Friday we told him and we also told society through a note in the media, that in addition to starting with the vaccination of people under 80, we explained that Osakidetza was going to start that weekend – and so he did – the vaccination of a new group, this one that I have described at high risk, this one of all those people we already know who are in these circumstances. And I also told him that people at high risk, and not very high risk, were starting to get vaccinated this week. Yes, Mrs Garrido, they have started vaccination as far as vaccine availability is concerned, age and by risk groups. And for that, let me also tell you that Osakidetza has centralized information about each of these people, so that you can identify them perfectly to proceed to call them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u126	Thank you, chief physician. Your time is up. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u127	Counselor, I'm going to take the floor, because if you have the list and the relationship of high-risk people, people with chronic diseases, we're talking about high-risk people... Don't cheat on me, because I know what the strategy says about very high-risk people. No, we're talking about high-risk people, multipathological patients, COPD, diabetes, cardiovascular, cancer, metabolic, immunosuppressed, we're talking about those patients. What worries me already is that you tell me that you are on Osakidetza's radar, that you have the list, and you have started calling this week, being high-risk patients. It is going to tell me that the vaccination strategy comes from the National Commission of Public Health; yes, but you have competence to plan a vaccination process, as you do with that of the flu and as here you have wanted to prioritize certain vaccines to certain groups, which I will not be the one to quote here. That seems very good to me, but what needs to be made clear is that you have not prioritized high-risk patients with chronic diseases in Euskadi; you have not prioritized them, and in fact you – let's see – are telling me that you started this week, when the vaccination started in December, and that they are on Osakidetza's radar. Therefore, I find it very worrying to tell me that until this week these patients, high-risk patients, not very high-risk patients, are in a situation of special vulnerability due to their special personal situation and their disease, and are in a chronic situation. Of course, you tell me, "I don't know the testimony." I can send him – I can tell him to call him when the plenary is over, if he wants – a list, because that's all they ask us on the street. It's just that for those of us on the subject, one of the great concerns is this group that is between 65 and 75 years old, that you have to meet people who ask you: "Hey, I'm with this disease, I'm chronic sick; it's that they don't call me, I call my doctor and tell me that it's that Osakidetza..., I call Osakidetza, and they don't have the data; I call my doctor, and if you can't give them...; the information isn't there." Man, counselor, this is happening. Of course, if you tell me that Osakidetza has this information and you haven't called them until this week or that you've started calling them this week... Of course, this tells me here today, because on Wednesday he didn't say it in committee, on Wednesday he didn't say anything about it in committee; therefore, I think it is urgent to give an answer, even if it is late, to this group, the high-risk people in Euskadi, who so far have not heard from Osakidetza about their vaccination because they were not wanted to prioritize, and they could have been prioritized. And I can bring you here a list of a lot of people in this situation. I have your testimony, I bring it to you, if you want, I have your testimony. Check it out, too. I respect that you have a lot of information as a counselor, with your department, but also respect the testimony that other people bring us on this subject. People are bewildered and people don't know what to do, and people don't leave their homes. And do you know what it's like for people not to leave their homes for long periods of time? This also has an impact on other issues and also on health; therefore, it is necessary to provide this collective with security, in which their vulnerable situation in relation to becoming infected or not becoming infected, if it is vaccinated, obviously, it can be alleviated. It's just that these people are in a very defenseless situation, counselor. Then you tell me that it matches the tools to the autonomous communities. We have been talking about the need for the autonomous communities to have sufficient tools for a year. I am glad that you are joining the car now, because I have not heard any representative of the Basque Nationalist Party or the Lehendakari this whole year join in the People's Party's request that it be necessary to amend specific laws in order for the Autonomous Communities to have an umbrella in order to be able to take the relevant measures outside of a state of alarm. The measures, therefore, it is clear that they are not working, they are not working and we are where we are, in the ranking of the contagions of all Spain with capitals of province above, they are not working. And we only ask you to reflect, to make an analysis, to see where the problems are and to put the corresponding solutions. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u128	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u129	Mrs Garrido, I am not cheating, and I ask you not to cheat, and above all not to cheat on citizenship. Don't confuse the citizenry. You don't listen. What kind of vaccine does the group of patients you're saying now need, whose interests or situation you now claim to be defending? Messenger RNA. And those other groups that you say or have dropped that we have previously vaccinated prioritising these people, have not been with that kind of vaccine, Mrs. Garrido. So, first thing, huh? And you know that very well, because I have explained it to you on numerous occasions in the Health Committee. Type of vaccine, type of people to whom that vaccine should be applied, for the sake of their health. Second, you haven't heard me. What is the highest risk of death or serious situation by COVID-19? Age. Age. What should be applied to that group? Messenger RNA. And depending on the availability of these vaccines, vaccination has been carried out for those groups that were the most vulnerable. And of course, in addition to those, when it has dropped to the age of 80 downwards, where a large number of them are given, it has prioritized those at very high risk, who are very well identified by Osakidetza. And I'm going to repeat what are the high-risk, very high-risk assumptions. I'll repeat them again, if you like, and they're perfectly identified, I'll tell you. And not only that, but also, indeed, within the overall strategy, but that is respected by all the autonomous communities, including those in which he governs his party, to which I have not heard at any time make any contribution regarding its modification, there indeed, in addition to those of very high risk, we are incorporating into another group, which are the multipathological patients or complex chronic patients, which are also identified by Osakidetza. And so is stratified the risk in Osakidetza, and so is the distribution of vaccines for the whole society. And don't forget, don't forget that more vaccines available, the higher percentage of the population we get to immunize quickly, and that Osakidetza has the ability to administer vaccines to the extent that they are coming, not only for that group of people that you point out, but for society as a whole. Therefore, I really ask you to contribute, when you tell us that you understand that there is confusion, that we change criteria... Don't contribute, don't contribute to confusing the population, but we seriously contribute to us being able to continue as we have so far, so that, at the moment we have vaccines, we can administer them quickly, effectively and prioritising, as we have so far, the most vulnerable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "Interpelation, of keeping Carmélo Barrojia, the popular group of the Ciudadans to the head of the political department of Cultura and Language as a residence in the Eurocopa of the 2021." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u131	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning again. Well, I'll be brief because you're the one who has to answer to the interpellation and some remaining doubts. The development and celebration of a final phase of the European Cup in Bilbao is important news. It was important news, it was an organizational challenge, an opportunity to promote Bilbao, of the Basque Country, and today it seems that we are faced with bad news, somehow, with withdrawals, with a lack of ability to act – it seems – and you will tell us, but the media announce bad news, right? Bilbao is one of the 12 European venues to compete in this final phase of the European Cup. It was an agreement reached between political, municipal and UEFA institutions a few years ago. Logically, last year could not be celebrated. The celebration of the Euro Cup, the 2020 Euro Cup, was postponed to this one. And in several major cities in Europe they have already confirmed and guaranteed their headquarters status, and, well, it seems that Bilbao may not be. The Basque Country has been asked by UEFA to expand the information available to ensure the presence of the public, and it seems that there have been no changes in relation to the previous requirements, which appear to be inconceivable by UEFA, which essentially hinder the celebration and the status of headquarters in Bilbao. Requirements that have been formulated in other cities in a consumable way. That is, that there are a few cities, the last of them, the same Rome, which was also asked for an extension of the information, gave it and seems to be confirmed as one of those 12 venues of the celebration of the final phase of the European Cup. Today he goes out, in the media, that Seville will replace Bilbao. Well, we don't know that question yet. Everything seems to indicate that the Spanish Football Federation is also looking for a new venue for the celebration of the European Cup matches that were originally to be played in Bilbao. That's in the media. The conditions of the Basque Government, it is said, make the attendance of spectators to San Mamés impossible, according to federative information regarding what has been manifested. And the UEFA, on the 19th, will pronounce itself; the same way it is before or the same it is now, or the same it has already done, and I have not heard it, but it has given the deadline until the 19th to improve and expand the reports that have been sent in relation to some sites, including Bilbao. So, in that sense, there's the question. We, in view of the situation, at the meeting of the UEFA, the highest manager of European football, of that day and the situation that exists now, are seeing statements by many people (of his lordship, also of the mayor of Bilbao, of the president of the Spanish Football Federation), and, well, we want to know what purposes are those who have, the definitive ones, those of the Basque government department in relation to the celebration in Bilbao of the final phase of the Euro Cup. A Euro Cup is a magnificent opportunity, that final phase of a Euro Cup for a city, and I understand you can't miss it. There will be guarantees that can be applied in relation to the security we all want, won't there? We have seen other examples, but, well, it is also an opportunity to empower Bilbao, the Basque Country, in June. And, well, we want to know in that regard what his and his Government's purpose is in relation to this situation that the media are describing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u132	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u133	President of the Parliament, members of the legislature, chief physician, barri. The final purpose of the Basque Government has been and is that Bilbao be one of the 12 European seats to host the European Cup between June and July. And it is also our purpose for this sporting event to take place according to the situation of the pandemic and the health standards that are in force at that time. Our purpose is that the Eurocopa be celebrated in the safest way possible, both for Basque citizens and for all local and foreign staff involved in the organisation of the Eurocopa and the holding of their meetings. Since September 18, 2014, UEFA has chosen from among the 19 nominations that were presented to the stadium of San Mamés and the city of Bilbao as one of the 12 venues where the 2020 Euro Cup, the Bilbao City Council, the Bizkaia Provincial Council and the Basque Government, together with the Athletic Club of Bilbao, have worked side by side with UEFA and the Spanish Football Federation to ensure the celebration of the Euro Cup in Bilbao. It has been seven years of negotiation and work in which the Basque institutions have reached agreements with UEFA in all the requirements that have been raised. This collaborative attitude has been maintained at all times and has been repeatedly and publicly ratified by the UEFA Executive Committee and its chairman, Aleksander Ceferin. Mr. Barrio, we're people of our word. Our decision has always been consistent with the commitments made and reflected in the contracts signed by the Basque institutions. From the moment when the Basque institutional leaders decided that Bilbao would choose to host the European Cup, we have dedicated ourselves to working to fulfil our commitment. It has not been an easy path, and the last major difficulty has been imposed on us by the pandemic, which forced UEFA to postpone the celebration of the 2020 European Cup. Before the announcement of its suspension, the Basque institutions were consulted by UEFA representatives on the new date we preferred for its celebration, with two alternatives: December 2020 or June 2021. Given the uncertainty that existed at that time, and as a better option to secure Bilbao's headquarters, we showed our preference for the summer of 2021. On 16 June last year, five days before the state of alarm in the Spanish state ended, UEFA officially confirmed that Bilbao would be one of the 12 seats of the Euro Cup. UEFA spokespersons commented that Bilbao had never been in doubt and that it had always had the institutional support necessary for San Mamés to be one of the official headquarters. It is obvious that no one in the world thought that the situation in April 2021 would be the one that remains today. After months in which public events have been banned in the middle of the world, there were other prospects for 2021, but the truth is that winter and spring have been plagued by the pandemic, and the health situation has brought with it an endless list of suspensions of all kinds of events (feral, commercial, sporting, musical, cultural or festive), events that acquire all their meaning when they are celebrated with the presence of the public. Faced with the risk that agglomerations pose for the transmission of the virus, and with the aim of avoiding health risks, many events that had to be held in the coming months have again been postponed, will be held without public or will be developed only online. The clearest example of this uncertainty is the Tokyo Olympic Games. Since last weekend, less than 100 days before the start of the Olympics that were to have been held a year ago, there are countless analyses, comments and statements on the final conditions for its celebration. There is once again a doubt as to whether they will come to be celebrated or disputed only with or without the local public for the increase and recurrence of cases and the increase in the contagion of the covid in Japan. And we are not facing a sporting or political problem, Mr Barrio, we are facing a huge public health problem that affects everyone. I think it serves as a reference – and I bring it here for that – that, for example, Basque shirts Virginia Díaz and Aizpea González competed last weekend in the European Championship of Remo, in Varese, Italy, without audience. The Judoca Jose Mari Mendiola will compete this weekend in the European Judo Championship, classification for the Olympics, without audience. Maialen Chourraut, Ander Elosegi, Pau Etxaniz, Miren Lazkano, Klara Olazabal, Joan Crespo and Olatz Arregi will be competing in early May for the European Championship of Slalon of Pyraguism in Ivrea, Italy, without audience. In the World Surf Championship, a classification for the Olympics, in which our athletes Aritz Aranburu, Ariane Ochoa, Garazi Sánchez, Leticia Canales, Andy Criere and Nadia Erostarbe will participate, which will be held in El Salvador in early June, there will be no public. And in the European Championship of Piragüismo Esprint, also a classification for the Olympics, which will be held in Duisburg, Germany, in early June, when the Euro Cup begins, our representatives Begoña Lazkano and Íñigo Peña will have to compete also without public. I have cited only a few international examples in which Basque Team athletes with Olympic aspirations will participate in the coming weeks, all without public. Given the health situation in the countries I have mentioned, the organizers have decided to keep the competitions planned in the planned places, and to do so without public, in order not to add any more risks to a sickened health situation; who knows how we will be in June or July. Until the moment when UEFA has decided that the Eurocoup should be held in public and has required the 12 elected seats to guarantee this presence, apart from the health situation that is currently being lived or lived in Europe, there has been no doubt so far about the headquarters of Bilbao. Now UEFA demands that we ensure the presence of the public, and the Public Health Directorate of the Basque Government has responded that the presence of the public in sporting events is now suspended, and that in June or July, if possible, will be subject to the situation of the pandemic in Basque and Spain, to the evolution of vaccination and to the situation in which our hospitals and ICUs are at that time. This is what we have done in Euskadi since last March when the lehendakari took the first steps to deal with the covid, and this is what we must continue to do until we finally overcome this health crisis. Today, 16 April, all foreign visitors travelling from one country to another must comply with a series of conditions, quarantines or diagnostic tests. Today, April 16, the use of masks is mandatory and general, except at the time of physical exercise. Today, agglomerations must be avoided; consumption of food and drink is regulated, both outdoors and indoors, and no exceptions are made. From the Basque public institutions we made an effort to allow the presence of the public in sporting events, with very severe limitations, at the beginning of the 20-21 season. It was possible at the beginning of the season, but the health situation we have experienced since last October has led our technical officials to propose their ban, which has been decreed by the lehendakari. It was a measure that affected our professional football and basketball clubs, ball companies and all clubs of all specialties. I have on the table requests from the presidents of the federations of Euskadi, Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa to allow public access to the Basque stadiums. I also have the request of the Basque Automobile Federation, Barakaldo (Football), Bidasoa, Bera Bera and Zuazo (Balloon), Baskonia, Gernika, Araski and IDK of Gipuzkoa (Balancesto) or the ball and lift companies. Mr Barrio, the technical opinion of the health officials of the Basque Government is that in this situation there should not be public in the stands at sporting events. I hope that we will soon be able to find a situation more favourable than the current one, which will allow the public, even if with restrictions, to return to sporting events. And I hope that the presence of the public in the European Cup is also possible, but it will depend on the health situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u134	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u135	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Zupiria, counselor. Let's see. It seems that Rome, London, Amsterdam, Budapest, Bucharest, Baku, Glasgow, Copenhagen, St Petersburg have analysed the situation and have taken a number of measures, right?, to ensure precisely that risks are minimized, right? And that is why I ask you whether you have not valued, in relation to what other European cities are going to be home and which are already confirmed in the willingness to host the public, a series of measures that can be guaranteed. We all know that, well, the vaccination process is also going on. We are talking about 11 June, we are talking about that we can organize and implement actions, in addition to the restrictions that are going to be very clear in relation to the match – logically, they are there – because, like all these other cities, we can organize in a perfect way something like access to football fields (to San Mamés, in this case), stays, distances..., there is no doubt about the use of protections, and, moreover, the possibility even of establishing access systems with guarantees in relation to the analysis that is made of people. That is, I believe that it is a possibility that exists and that could be carried out precisely to facilitate the fact that not only this but also other events and other activities can be developed. That is the fundamental element, that is, that there could be such dedication, such action by the Government, the Bilbao City Council and those who organize, to facilitate. We recently saw in Barcelona an event of 5,000 people, a concert in Palau Sant Jordi, 5,000 people, a concert of Love of Lesbian, and of that yes there would be many things to say and to question. There was no social distance there, no personal distance, but in a football field like San Mamés it could be guaranteed, if everything is well organized, that question. And, I say again, the point is that Seville does seem to be going to guarantee it. And that is a fundamental element, because it makes us see that it was closed, organized, that with UEFA are those conditions, logically. If you do not accept them or the thing changes in relation to what was agreed, well, there are also conditions to study them. But the point is, it's a missed opportunity. It would be a missed opportunity, and, by using a vulgar phrase, some collectives, including business, people with the expectation of this situation (hosteleros, etc.) and with a little more economic setback will be hung up. And even, equally, a kind of reputation of the Basque Country that sometimes it seems that we are not able to sort out some difficulties that other cities – I say again, because we are not the only ones – have tried and it does seem that they will, in relation to those guarantees. Again, they are front-line cities of the world where, of course, they will not let things be done anyway. That is, I think it denotes a bit of a lack of interest to put in place mechanisms, in relation to this issue and to apply to do things right, and so that those areas – in this case, sports, and in others, cultural – that require public development can be developed. I would ask the institutions, the Basque Government, for a final effort to tie up the Euro Cup in Bilbao and for it to be celebrated. And that measures be taken to guarantee health, distance, access... It can be done. We're talking about things you can do, you have to try, too. We say again that it is getting more and more vaccinated, and we also have to take those measures, in relation also to what is the defence of economic needs, of economic aspects, which, well, are going to be injured in this dissatisfaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u136	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u137	Chief of Parliament. Mr Barrio, there has been a runrun for many months saying that we have no real interest in the Euro Cup being held in Bilbao. There is only one reason why it has not been contested so far in Bilbao: it is called COVID-19, Mr.Barrio, COVID-19. UEFA has welcomed the detail and quality of the information we have provided in our response, setting out the health conditions under which the Eurocoup should be held with public. It is likely not enough for UEFA, which seems more committed to saving its economic reasons and its commitments for sponsorships, costs, etc., for what, yes or no, it needs public. I'm going to ask you a question; I know you don't like me asking you questions, because you say that it's you who asks the questions and that I'm here to answer, but I'm going to ask you a question: what would you have done? We had two options: one was to say yes to anything and then God comes and fixes it; and another was to be serious and say under what conditions we would admit public presence and in which not. And we have said it clearly, and they have thanked our information. It's a new condition in an unexpected situation. If the UEFA decides to change its mind, then they will already inform us. Meanwhile, and until then, Bilbao remains one of the official venues of the 2020 Euro Cup, which will be held by the covid in June and July 2021. As you said, we are in the Dublin and Munich group, cities which, like Bilbao, have conditioned the public presence to a certain health situation. In the case of Dublin they have even ruled out that possibility, leaving aside any possibility of public presence. According to information published by UEFA, Saint Petersburg in Russia and Baku in Azerbaijan have confirmed a 50% capacity. Budapest wants to allow 100%. Amsterdam, Bucharest, Copenhagen, Glasgow, Rome and London have committed to 25%. The Basque Government is in the group of those who work to make Bilbao one of the 12 European venues that will host the Euro Cup between June and July, and among those who think that this sporting event should take place in accordance with the general and concrete health standards that are in force at that time, and in the safest way possible, both for the citizens of Bilbao and Euskadi and for the people who will eventually be able to visit us for that reason. And in view of the possible transfer to another Spanish city of the parties to be played in Bilbao by commitment and contract between the Basque institutions and UEFA, I would like to remind you that, as a result of an agreement adopted in a coordinated manner last October in the Spanish Interterritorial Health Commission, I quote: "the presence of the public in sporting events held in the framework of international professional football and basketball competitions is not permitted, at least as long as such assistance is not allowed for professional competitions at national level", a situation that today, 16 April, does not occur. I don't know if anyone will know what the situation will be on June 14. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u138	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The twentieth point in the theme list: "To ask the question, Gustavo Angulo García Together, Podemos, a member of the Antucian Party, made of Cultura and the chief of the political department of Language, the right to create culture." Mr. Angulo, your word is yours. [[Blank writing]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u139	...parliamentarians. Thanks to the commitment of the organizations throughout these months of pandemic, the cultural sector has made it clear that attending concerts and cultural events is safe; so much so that the Basque Government itself has organized concerts or will organize concerts with up to 600 attendees. But there are still some aspects that have not been addressed: there are the labour problems, which we have already talked about, but there is also the right to creation and cultural expression. That is why, Mr Councillor, in the face of an uncertain future in which we are in these months of pandemics, how does the Basque Government intend to give effect to the right to cultural creation? Mila esker. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u140	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u141	Yes, ma'am. Mr. Angulo. Since March 13, 2020, the sector... Sorry, that was your question. I'm going with the answer. As we have noted in the government programme for this legislature, support for cultural creation and production in Euskadi is the first of our department's commitments. And it is for two reasons: on the one hand, because the cultural and social wealth of a country lies, to a large extent, in its capacity to create and produce culture, and, secondly, because we are talking about an activity that also has effects and consequences in the field of economy and employment. The calls of the Basque Government's Department of Culture are the main source of funding for cultural creation in Euskadi. We're closing the 2020 balance sheet. We have kept all the calls for grants, adapting them to the new situation, to the new circumstances that the sector is going through. We have allocated €8.6 million through our calls for creation and production in literature, music, performing arts, plastic arts, audiovisual and other cross-cutting, which has made it possible to support a total of 466 independent cultural projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u142	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u143	Thank you, Counselor Zupiria. It is very good that you bring back here the help of your department and about which we have already asked at the time, but today we ask you about the right to creation. And the difference is that while some privileged spaces have been welcomed by the Administration, as in the case of the Guggenheim, to which one million euros have been advanced to deal with the deficit caused by the crisis, other more unfortunate ones have been removed, not only from the economic aid so essential at the moment, but have also been prevented from continuing to practice, play or rehearse. And I'm referring to bands, choirs and other cultural groups, especially so-called amateurs, non-professionals, where their components have to combine their artistic vocation with other work. This is the case in 80% of music groups. We need to think about the damage that culture is suffering right now. The cultural syndemic is taking on countless spaces of creation. Not only galleries, museums and halls are closing all over the country; along with them is also disappearing the possibility that many talents will have the opportunity to show their work. As in other activities, in music it is necessary – I would say essential – the rehearsal, both individual and group. And the economic situation in which the sector has remained and the inability to act must now also be added to the inability to test. Discrimination between professionals and amateurs has not just been understood; while some people are doing everything possible and impossible to pull the cart and culture does not lose more than it has lost, they are not being allowed to exercise their right to creation from the administration. In sport, where this discrimination was not understood, the situation changed; the benefit was understood and protocols were applied, and sport can now be done in groups of four. This is not the case in the cultural sector: some have the right to continue rehearsing and others are busy waiting for the situation to change, losing their desire to continue. And it is that, Mr. Zupiria, culture cannot be considered merely entertainment; it must be valued for itself, beyond the economic revenues that it can generate. Mila esker. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u144	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u145	Chief of Parliament. Mr. Angulo. Indeed, there is a difference – important, moreover – between professional and non-professional culture, and one of the great differences is that in one case its agents depend on this activity in order to be able to have income and live. The year 2021 is also an uncertain year for professionals of cultural activity, which is for those for whom the department normally works. And I am not going to talk about other issues that have more to do with health, I do not consider myself the most competent person to do so. I'm not going to explain to you why people who aren't professionals shouldn't join in a group to sing, am I? This year, for the reasons set out above, general calls have become particularly important for the professional sector, but I believe that the special line of support for self-employed people, businesses and professional bodies of culture who suffered income losses in 2020 as a result of the covid has been acquired. In this call for direct aid, which will expire tomorrow, 363 applications have been registered to date. On account of the Covid pandemy, 2021, we have received request for 363 at the time of our calling for cultural companies, autonomists, professionals. Sectors: in the works of art, 103, 120 musics, 14 visual arts, 11 archaeology, and an inheritance, 86 in the audience, three verses, 15 cultural intermediary, and 11 literature and book. The culture bill of 363 professional companies and professionals that present the help company has dropped 65% in 2020, compared to the year before. Where the bill was $129 million in 2019, it was 45 million in 2020, 84 million less. In the next few weeks we will examine all the demands, and try to decide as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-16.u146	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-eight.
