ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u0	Good morning, everyone. Good morning. Everyone in their seats, please. Good morning, everyone. To Mr. Fernando Buesa and Enrique Casas, we will begin with a minute's silence. [[One minute's silence]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u1	Before we start the subject list, I remember that the thirty-three lords and ladies have taken the vote. First point in theme list: "The interrogation of his office." 3.2 of the article of the 3/1985 Law of February, which creates and regulates the organization: "The former shall take possession of his office in the whole Union of the legislature, and swear to do his duty, or give his word." Next, on the nomination, and on account of this charge, the second secretary at the table will read the agreement which the whole company has agreed to name Mr. Lezerta, published in the Basque Country Authority.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u2	"The plenary session of Parliament, held on 18 February 2021, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 2 of Law 3/1985 of 27 February, establishing and regulating the institution of Ararteko, has appointed Mr Manuel Lezertúa Rodríguez as Ararteko. And for the purposes of the publication of the appointment in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country, this certification is issued, with the approval of the President of the Basque Parliament, in Vitoria-Gasteiz, on February 18, 2021." [[After that, the interrogator will speak or swear.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u3	Second point on the subject list: "Punciation of the Law made by the Parlamental Group, in order to guarantee the right to the Mygetic Confederate. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! You're in the documentation that's delivered to you. We shall, therefore, proceed to discussion without reading it. We have side shifts and counter shifts here. On the side shift, EH Collect, yes. Anybody else wanna be on the side shift? Anyone else on the side shift? No. On the counter shift? Okay. So the voter. Okay. Madame Kortja's, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u4	Chief of Parliament. Congressmen, good day to all. It was the International Day of Social Justice last Saturday. As the Basque Country confirmed it that day, it is established in the case of real choice for worthy and lasting lives, this legal proposition for our defense to-day. In what our lives have become chaos because of the influence of the COVID, there is something which tempts us to idealize the state before the evil. But in the cohesion of our society there was an increase of rifts before them. And one of these cracks is the rise of people who have difficulty in keeping their houses warm in the winter. Today we have a sweet south wind outside, but it's very cold outside for a lot of people, ladies and gentlemen. It's starting a year from the cold, thousands of people who don't have to turn on the street or give you a warm shower. Thousands of people live in houses that don't have a proper isolation. There are many of them who have no platitudes, and there are some who have it but can't be lit, because the bill of the gas or the lighter weighs more than cold. The rise of the indicators related to the housing in Araba, Biscaia, and Gipu has been speccular since 2008. He's obviously raised the number of units of housing which don't have enough economic resources to deal with expenses or other basic supplies. I remember in the Lake, in the technical exposition of the last poverty and the social poll, how Louis Sanzo, the head-master of the Police Department of Society, had just told us that this is our black point in comparison of the study of poverty. Thus he spoke of the comparison with Europe, and of our data in relation to the state, because they are much worse. There are families who have not enough resources to pay the bills for the Arcadia, the Bice, and the Gipuzian.666, for the illumination, for the gas, or for the baron or the propan bonbon. 8 % of all families who cannot afford to meet their basic energy needs, or who are forced to spend an excessive part of their income on this type of expenditure. It is families who admit to suffering what has been called energy poverty. The question is increased in houses composed of narrow resources and persons living alone, houses composed of widows, persons separated, or exposed in the state of neglect or danger. One of the three homes that have difficulty facing winter is unpersonal. Then comes the families with their children in charge, or families with only one father. And as all examinations show, even if there are many profiles, poverty, connected with the willlessness of energy, has a woman's face; especially in the great women, and in the monomident families, these impossibilitys are given. But the problem is beyond. According to FOSSA's latest report, Araba, Biscaia, and Gipuzian population had to be reduced to these fundamental charges. And according to the latest poverty and social necessities, 5% of the last two years has gone up to 3% of people who have difficulty keeping a proper temperature when winter comes, until they reach nearly 200,000 people. The last facts, 2018, from the worst data that has been received from the series, from 2014, are very close to us. These are the previous facts of the Pandemia, and it is thought that the situation will become worse now. That means we're going to dive into a crisis without getting over it. So we have a big problem. Poverty has been named by thousands of people in their skins, but, after all, it is only another face of uncertainty and vitality rising above our heads. And, of course, it is impossible to omit the worthy conditions of the life of the people, and the preparations of the services necessary to execute their rights, that they may place the logic of private gain in the logic of private gain, and increase the most extreme weakness of the citizens, and compromise the possibility of a worthy life. Besides, our want of power and control, and dependence on the Spanish state, is increased by our want of provisions, services, and preparations. Cold is a poverty accent. As far as it is due to the innate good, the rift is increasing in us, and the ability to face the essentials has become a source of difference in the community. And, obviously, our backup system is not capable of answering the situation. From the point of view of our political choice for worthy and lasting lives, it is plain that the cold should not be a right; It's true that every year when there's cold or one of those violent colds that we've lived a few months ago, it's a lot of gills that fill up poor poverty, isn't it? But this cold outside passes, the headlines disappear, with which all good intentions disappear, and these families continue to grow cold. And they need answers, as we're repeating so often. The groups that support the government will tell us that these answers are given. It is true that, from the euphemism of the necessitical poverty, there are some policies, tactics, and measures to answer these situations. I mean, it's a $40,000 game that's directed to the Red Cross these last years in this concept, isn't it? The organization has said it's a very short game, but, well, I think that's not supposed to be said by an organization, that's very obvious. And, on the other hand, there are also ESAs. The Basque Government has an allocation of 42 and a half million for social emergency aid, which, among other things, includes, among many others, energy costs due to electricity supply, gas or other domestic fuel. They are aid that can reach up to EUR 900 per year. Make the calculation if we divide it between 12. This year the share of ESAs has increased by 15 million, although the situation does not improve, the situation of those who have to apply for such social emergency aid, because the amounts have not changed and because the municipalities have already incurred this expenditure, in that investment, because they have been complementing year after year the shares for ESAs, which almost always remain short. The answers which have hitherto been articulated have hitherto been involuntary, wantless, and have left out many men who have lived in this state. The facts show that in a clear way. The data shows that we are not solving the problem. The responses that have been articulated, from the parameters that are usually handled by public policies, to respond to situations of poverty have been limited to aid limited to availability, which have access criteria that are established in relation to the parameters of situations of real poverty. To understand us, you have to be very poor to be able to access these aids. And that leaves a lot, a lot of people out, who are experiencing these kinds of situations that we've described, but that don't fit into those very narrow parameters of poverty. The data shows that. I don't know, I usually like to set an example, to see if we can understand what we're talking about, right? Look, we've recognized the right to education, haven't we? Every year, there are thousands of people who apply for a scholarship to study, to stay, to transport. Obviously, scholarships are aimed at ensuring equal opportunities in this right to education. Maximum income criteria are set for access to them, but there is no need to be poor on solemnity for access to a scholarship; there is no need to be poor on solemnity. Scholarships are used to enable families who have difficulties in meeting the costs of education, because they can have support to enable such equal opportunities, right? They are more universal, more tailored to each of the situations or needs, much more standardized. And that is not the case with aid to alleviate energy poverty. We believe that it is the time for public policies to realize hope, that it is the time for the radical choice for worthy and permanent life, and that it is the time of public policy to divide prosperity among them all. In this sense, for the United States of the Basque People, the satisfaction of the basic wants of the citizens is the supreme privilege of providing the means of supplying them in the midst. As for the protection and protection of the people, we have already acknowledged, our people have always been in the confession of rights to ensure the welfare of the citizens. Thanks to the mussels and labour of the breeders, and to their mutual partnership, the right of the welfare services, the right of the housing, of the security of the minimum income, has become reality in this country. He'd probably say he wasn't real at the time. And there were also those who said there was a question of jurisdiction. But obstacles are now a right in this country. We propose to play the same way as our predecessors, with this legal proposition, and with it to give a quantum leap in the welfare of men. But it is a pity that once more the road is confirmed by some of you who have long ceased to spread its precedence and its rights. This legal proposition is also a question of self-preservation and preservation of our members, which we believe to be an exercise necessary to a worthy people. But I'm afraid that's the way some people have left you. This legal proposition seeks an increase of ical transition, equal to the climateal emergency that we live in. The service necessary to ensure the worthy lives of the community seeks to place them in the logic of common well-being, and to place them in the logic of constancy. But that's not in your interest either. You see, in this less unstable situation, when people need answers from public policies, the choice of the leaders, the resources, the use of all the people to protect them, combines courage, support, community, and modification. Unfortunately, that's not your way. So, what do we seek with this legal proposal? So that every citizen who lives in the Araba, Usca, or Gipu, may have a quality life to have worthy conditions of life, and that the fundamental resources are in possession and security. In short, what this bill seeks is that not to go cold is a right, that access to basic energy supplies is guaranteed, that a public system is created to materialize it and that all this is compatible with an energy transition according to the climate emergency situation we live in. To assume the mythical good as the subjective right of the individual, to build a public system for the realization of these rights, and to be able to do it in a frame which is permanent, in a mythical frame. I'm not going to enter here into the details of articulate speech, but I think it's important to make some remarks. The first underlying question, in our opinion, is a new concept of well-being, a state of extreme poverty which has hitherto been used. If this law were allowed, the right to be of use would become a subjective right, and therefore the administration would be a matter of security. The Administration ought to guarantee education or health as it is necessary for it to maintain the earthly welfare, which presupposes a quantum leap towards what is now done. Another major concept, we think, of the most radical supply. What's it about? For chiefly, in both cases: In the housing, it's a very important supply that guarantees temperatures between 18 and 20 degrees, which, in a great measure, is a very urgent comfort, and, on the other hand, a bill paid for basic supplies must not be assumed more than 10% of the rental income. The legal proposition also puts together the columns of preparation to ensure the temporal welfare. These columns have principally two axes. On the one hand, he foresees economic preparations, for the reasonable sum of money which the amount of energy can afford to satisfy the use of all the individuals of the EAE need to develop a great number of indications; the kind of housing, position, number of inhabitants, degree of impalpability, etc. And, on the other hand, even technological preparations are planned, such as aid lines for getting efficient devices that helps to ease my narcotic bill. There is another question, we think, to be underlined, because it is essential for us to be able to do it in a permanent frame. It's not just a matter of getting supplies available. Of course it is, but not only that. Like the answers which have hitherto been articulated to these states, social bond between them, right? It is important also to start and regulate the initiative or programs of another kind, because it requires the guarantee of extreme rights, without additional measures, to increase CO2 fluids connected to energy, and the climate shock requires as little as possible to apply as possible CO2. In order to do this, the law, the legal proposition, puts it under two essential sections of work. On the one hand, they're on my senior residential housing and that's what they're supposed to do in efficient subsidies. With the survival of the housing, the bill can be about half-a-dozen blocks down. And in this sense the law penetrates into the way of efficacy and efficacy, which is the aim of placing at the present day the help of this road in a redistributor of logic. And, on the other hand, the choice of self-consecrational energy and cultural community is committed through law by accepting and encouraging the potential data for the reduction of bills and greenhouse gass. Lastly, the law also introduces the regulations concerning the most vulnerable consumers, and confirms that they will not have the cuts of energy. But, you see, above all other things, we should say that this law or this legal proposition wants to be the key, and that we have introduced it with this intention. We have a key to this law, the target is, as it were, to make a minimum use of energy right, to guarantee a basic service in order to live worthy of life. And though several articles are proposed in several places, many things are left to beg after the consent of the law; for the definition of certain indicators, both of development by rule and so on. It's also essential how we develop it, but first we have to accept the nature of the law. First, the servant of a new right must be opened, and that is the essence of the law: that slave, to open that slave of the rights. If you open the bill of rights, you refuse to admit this bill of law today. I have to admit, it wasn't a surprise for us. Of course, our consensual proposition received. It's not a realist, but it's over our hands and it's gonna be fun. He thinks it's possible to apply a public policy for social life, which will be effective for the ultimate purpose of helping the poorest groups, without any claim to deconditioning the market-placer. To say that our proposals are not realists has become classical in this parliament, we know that you are willing to impose a frame of what is possible, and that you are in favor of keeping that frame firm. But this people, dreaming collectively, working and spreading the picture of all possible things, has come to the place where it has come, and we are engaged in it. And I'm going to make a little confession to you today, because I'm calm, I'm all right with time... When I get into this parliament, I put a video on my forehead, and that video is the Telesforo de Monzon in Ano, a myth given in the veil of Anoo. And there, with many emotions and many epics, Telesphorus de Monzon said very clearly: "Thou utopic ones, ye shall bring change and freedom to this people." And we are persuaded, we utopicus are persuaded to change the world, and we shall continue in it by giving it our best. But, in any case, what the data backs up is that what is not realistic is to think that we are responding to this problem that we have described with a budget of EUR 400,000. That is not realistic, or with part of the ESAs, that is not in line with the principle of reality. Especially when this item, for example, EUR 400,000, remains unchanged over time, despite the fact that the data show that it is insufficient. What is not realistic is to think that doing the same thing will achieve different objectives. That may be useful to say that something is done, but realistic is not. What is real is that we have a big problem, which is a vital experience that affects almost 200,000 people and is not answered. His is not realism, he is cowardice and he is incapacitated. A law, a bill of law, also tells me that in the configuration of the content of the legal law of the subject's content, which participates in electricity and gas sectors, it affects their duties and rights. He claims to deform the marketers. And here, probably, the articulation that brings us here would require improvements, we are sure of that. But the point is, we can't accept the profits of a few people over our right to energy. We can't accept it. Ladies and gentlemen, Endesa has won 1,394 million in 2020. Record benefits. He's won eight times as much as the year before. Record gain also for Iberdrola. It has earned an additional 4.2% this year, 3,610 million. It's obscene. And we cannot accept those indecent benefits being placed above the welfare of the citizenry. We can't accept it. And there is no doubt but the law seeks to operate upon this proposition. You know, it's beyond our jurisdictions, and it's likely that it'll be resurrected, too. It's just that we're tied to a yoke, close to it, even to energy matters. The want of power and control in matters of power, and dependence on the Spanish state, is a Lastre, as we see it, in the care and protection of persons. The position of this group of us is known. It cannot be an excuse to have no rights, when it compromises the weakness of the people and the possibility of a worthy life. And admitting the law to be established doesn't mean that there can be no improvement from legal security, it's just accepting it. If you turn back the nature of this law today, you are not saying that all the notes of this legal proposition are not correct, because it can also be solved in transmutation, but that music of this law is not interesting to you, and that's serious. And finally, how is it possible for the Government to express itself as a reason that it is possible to implement its own social welfare policy that is effective for the ultimate objective of helping the most disadvantaged groups, without the proclamation of distorting the marketer in the conditions already established when the social bond is attributed to the nature of public service obligation, as we are told, with the data we have? How do you explain it? They're doing it? Are you applying that policy of your own? Because there's something that doesn't fit. It's just not possible. You're like the hortelane dog, like the hortelane dog, that doesn't do or let do. And I'll tell you again, the problem is not in the contents of this legal proposition, because many of them can be corrected. As I said before, the music is the music that doesn't interest you, and that's what's really serious. But, look, we've brought Angela Davis into this club several times, and we'll answer you with what we said: "We are not here to accept things or realities which cannot change, but to change things which we do not accept." And that's why we've introduced this law. In the building of the Basque Republic that protects and protects its members, social justice, stability, and community must proceed from the hands of the community. It is for us to build propositions which will assist us in the service of men and of common well-being, and which will help us to make a new example, which will be permanent, more than ever, from public politics, as this proposition of law which we have brought into discussion at the present day. We're going to build a shelter equal to the human scale and the ecological scale, based on mutual care, and we'll be able to continue with our heads on it, you're sure. Meanwhile, you're still in realism, continue to install yourself in realism. But, as a matter of fact, when you wake up, the elephant will remain there, bound close to the yoke and cold.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. No one must participate in the reverse round. So, I didn't say the vote before, but as the vote ends, we'll go to the vote. Mist, Vox. Yeah, all the teams in the vote, all right. Mist, Vox? Yes, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u6	I'm doing it right here, from the seat. Well, first of all, good morning, everyone. We see cheap demagogy again and toast to the sun. The easy thing is to dream and propose laws that are unrealizable. What are you looking for with these kinds of initiatives? To go of saviors? Mark left profile? Because, you can be left-wing asking for subjective rights for some yes and for others no? We believe that this is the product of a sectarian and reactionary whole-machine ideology. What they seek is not a solution of the social, but headlines and posture. You speak and propose without realism. The energy context is very complex and you know it. Electricity and gas sectors have their own legal rights and obligations. From Vox we believe that there are much more viable formulas to tackle the energy problem and then lower taxes. What we are clear is that less taxes and less demagogy would be the correct formula. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u7	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The Basque Popularo-Ciudadnos representative, Mrs. Larrea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u8	Good morning, thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Look, I am speaking at the explanations of vote to argue that we are abstaining from taking this bill into consideration. Because, let's see, the end I think is shared by all, that "all citizens...", and I quote textually, "...and citizens living in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country have to have access to the basic energy resources that provide them with a standard of living of quality" we all share here I believe. No one denies this statement. The objective of political work is to ensure the well-being of citizens. But the proposal for a law that you have submitted has more chance of being debated as a non-law proposal, because you here make statements of intentions, and that is what the PNLs are for, not propositions of law. And there is another way to alleviate the difficulties of families with regard to energy well-being. Structurally there is GIR, there are emergency aid managed by the municipalities. That we can debate at some point about emergency aid, about the lack of resources for such aid, okay, economic, but here you want to develop a law by shielding yourself in the search for the welfare of the citizen, and what you do in this proposal of law is actually to urge the government to develop a benefit of energy welfare, with the aim of ensuring the supply of energy in a thermal use between 18 and 25 degrees. And this could be discussed in a GNP. Because, really, we understand the end, we can share it, we share it, we talk about the well-being of citizens, but the medium we think is not the right one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Together the representative of the Piedmontese Gulf. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u10	Thank you, ma'am. As a matter of fact, I'm a part of it to vote for us. And, indeed, we do not understand how a parliament can be voted against such a subject of dispute. It's not understandable. The sects that support the government, say... they have put excuses and founded on certain legal technical grounds their refusal, but these contrary legal principles are referred to in a very abstract manner. And on the other hand, social bono is also mentioned as an excuse. Well, social bono. Actually, in the last five years, there's one average, and it's about 1,500 families, they're poor, you know? This, the most extreme poverty, draws more than 7,000 deaths in advance in the year. And it's obvious that social bono is not enough. So what can we do that doesn't happen? Klaro, it is in the meantime that the Megares, Petronor's, and Endes, are subsidizing by the funds of Europe. The corporations, indeed, have been successful in the past few years. We found out yesterday about 1,300, I'm sorry, the Iberdronla's earned $3,500 million Euro. Sure, I think... Is not this moral dilemma posed to all of us by subsidizing these super-enterprises with record profits and having 1,500 families elsewhere in poverty, in a situation of energy poverty? That these companies raise the electricity bill by 21% in January, while the boys and girls are doing their homework with gloves in their homes because they pass cold? It's very cold in the Basque oasis. In short, we believe that in the face of subsidising companies, multinational energy companies, which, on the other hand, serve, through the revolving doors, to place many high-ranking positions of both the PNV and the PSOE, this energy oligopoly, which increases the costs of light and gas, in the face of this attitude, I believe that it is the responsibility of the Government precisely to guarantee the energy well-being of citizens. And this guarantee deserves a law and a debate in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u12	Thank you, ma'am. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, all good days. I'll make an intervention for a negative vote from the Suscal Socialist Group. It is clear that both energy poverty and the drive for new tools, processes and actors to democratise and reduce the cost of energy, in addition to enhancing the use of clean energy, are important elements in the current political, social and economic debate. The recovery, transformation and resilience plan Spain Puede and the Euskadi Next plan itself are successive examples of how to try to take advantage of and realize the now €80 billion foreseen in Next Generation as in-depth grants lost for Spain and, therefore, also for Euskadi, a part of them. As a first conclusion, it seems clear that the proposed law seeks to capture part of the rabid current that confronts us. But it quickly lowers expectations, because it does not bother to deepen in the real context of right now, the state of the issue already existing. And that lack of depth in the analysis ends up unutilizing his proposals in a context with many substantive changes already underway and with a lot of money made available for it. It powerfully draws attention to the fact that in all the explanatory statements, approximately 13 sheets, more than a third of the text of the law itself, no reference has been made at any time to the measures that already exist for the fight against energy poverty at European level (energy efficiency, rehabilitation...), in the states (social bond, limitations, cut-off of supplies, obligations of the trading companies) and also in the autonomics (in terms of energy efficiency measures PREE, comprehensive rehabilitation of housing and buildings, social benefits, AES for energy poverty...). Even if we are looking for simple solutions, we must work and pre-raise contexts that are frankly complex. At present, the Basque Government already has established channels of aid and protection for citizens at risk of energy poverty, on the one hand, and of a firm commitment to the implementation and generation of renewable energy. Two-way policies, we could say, are, in any case, active policies already in place that cover the object of this bill. This bill aims to establish a system of energy welfare benefits of two types: economic and technological. And it says that they will be compatible with the rest of the aid, revenues that people have already granted. The question immediately arises: Is there really a need for new aid or with the social bonus, rehabilitation aid, GIR, ESAs to the collective, to the most vulnerable groups we are already ensuring a good level of protection and would it therefore be a question of addressing other issues? The answer, we insist, is that, in its definition and current scope, the proposed law does not bring anything new that brings value to what already exists. Finally, state legislation already regulates the issue of supply cuts, the obligations of trading companies, etc. We doubt whether an autonomous regulation can intervene in this area, given that the powers are specific to the State. From the point of view of the normative technique, it is a poor regulation, I regret to say, almost impossible to separate from the normative technique that is the imprecise content, full of concepts without definition, precepts that are declarations of intentions without a normative message. The services and services are not adequately differentiated, the powers of each institution are not clarified, the municipalities – very important in this case – the parliament, the Basque Government, except that the last one is the one that precisely finances all this. "It is a serious breach of the precautionary principle on the part of either party," says the law or the proposed law, which is great, because it is not known what the precautionary principle consists of and on the parties there are serious doubts. Is the energy guaranteed to cook, to run the computer, to pass the vacuum cleaner, to wash and iron the clothes or only the temperature?, because this draft of this proposal of law precisely does not clarify it. The proposal assigns the competence of the rehabilitation plans to the department responsible for Energy, obviating the department responsible for Housing, and the inspection referred to is the ITE or the Energy Efficiency Certificate, or both, with which we understand that this proposal of law is at least absolutely wrong in its concept, as long as it leaves out departments of the Basque Government which are precisely the ones who must manage these issues mentioned. In short, drafting the rule is a difficult work, very difficult, but it is the last and must accompany with success the work of analysis and previous context, which I regret to say that in the case of this proposal of law are not visualized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u13	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u14	Chief of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good day to all. Before this legal proposition, which we speak, our vote has been rejected for the following reasons. First of all, they agree with the funk I gave you. And together with this view, and with a discussion too much energy annexed to, as a law-group, we have clearly shown: poverty is poverty. And we ought not to give poverty a name or adjective. We've created a section of the violent poverty to save them in the energy of some of the people who are in trouble, and, according to the value we share, because we don't want them to be cold in our own country. But there may also be other accidental choices, which we would not have them for our people, because they are contrary to dignity, and might thus produce other subvaries of poverty. But all the same, my poor poverty and any other possible sub-varieties would still continue to be poverty. And we place poverty in social services. And that's why I've come out, in the name of our team, to vote, but we'll be completely mistaken if we think this is only a matter of social services. Social services can offer a final network. It can always be improved. But if we want to attack poverty, the mission is entirely indirect. To end poverty, we must create jobs, quality jobs, and to be able to enjoy decent employment, to the extent of all our possibilities, we must all change some things, not only visions, but also why not implement other types of businesses and provide access to wealth for all Basques and Basques, especially those in the most vulnerable situation. Similarly, and with a cross-cutting view of energy in relation to housing, we need to continue to improve the energy efficiency of housing. We did not like this proposition of law, and we say it without any spirit of offending, neither in form nor in substance. As far as form is concerned, and starting with the principle, we believe that state-level data have often been used and extrapolated, even knowing that they are not extrapolable. As for the content, we have concluded that, in the name of energy poverty and the subjective right around it, it was intended to limit and condition the companies that currently co-opt the energy market, in contravention of this European regulation, and to introduce a certain model, a model that by one of its flags carries, for example, self-consumption. Perhaps self-consumption is the future, which must be encouraged, but if there is not to pay for self-consumption, if we save on energy because we do not arrive, we will not have ended energy poverty, then we would not give the tool to attack the objective that I believe we all aim to achieve. Similarly, we find it contradictory with regard to the greenhouse effect, when one wants to establish the right to live in dwellings at a temperature of between 18 and 25 degrees, despite the fact that 18-20 has been established in this rostrum. Or in the sanctioning regime, when the only serious offence is the failure to comply with the precautionary principle, which could lead to such indeterminate discretion as the legal concept of the stated precautionary principle when deciding whether or not such a principle has been complied with. It is, on the other hand, a thing which does not appear in the law. For we who are not expert in the matter know the challenges of the world around the energy. And we think it's significant not to mention the mythical transition to be carried on that road. Of the 108th part of the government program, which is said to be the first act of commitment, the social protection of the most vulnerable persons must be avoided by the state of the most energetic poverty. Consequently, the Government proposes that no one should be left behind before changes of energy in the field, and that the Government should make a strategic plan. The most extreme transition that does not appear in the text, and that no one is to be placed behind it, will be of the most important importance, and will certainly be the most important thing in the case of the extreme poverty of the future. Finally, and speaking of the strategic and strategic plans, curious and memorable, article 33.1 of the law proposed by the Combats, appointing a law of eucalyptics under the sole strategy of the State. A fine example, a fine example, in the direction of the Basque Republic. I just want to thank Mr. Grabaris and Mrs. Arrivelaga and Mr. Tellegio for the rumination I don't see here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u15	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Third point in theme list: "Mutation, introduced together by Isabel González Rodríguz together by the Comomos-Compers of the United States, with the necessary efficiency and adaptation of the protocols of COVID-19. To discuss and to decide once and for all." The turn of the proposed team, Mrs. González, is your word to defend and defend this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u16	Thank you, ma'am. Partners. Good morning, everyone. Best way to get old It's a city life. Though the contagion cover the stars The best way to grow old It's not meant to be young. The best way to grow old It's a matter of insisting on your findings. The best way to grow old Last blow of the car Home walls cracking Cover Cus_t Tremble of life Keep an eye on him and take care of him. It's becoming an observation. After Mari Luz Esteban's poem, I'd like to give you two new ones. The one is good, but soon as they all have their power, they have also evil. To-day there is no such thing as uncleanness, or broth, or dead bodies. But at the same time there is no evaluation of the case, no communication with the members of the residents, no improvement in the conditions of work. A year, a whole year. One year, an entire year of absence of leadership from the Basque Government, where we have seen how in three waves the deaths, the outbreaks, the contagions were the bread of every day in the residences, an institutional abuse to which the workers, the residents and their families have been subjected. Pribatration and preparation, privatricion y precaridad. This is your example, which is supported by the Government, but which the aldudites carry to the last extremity. A model in which territorial inequality flourishes, and is not only affecting residential care, but is contributing to a great social disprotection and, above all, under suspicion of negligence and lack of uniform criteria. For many hopeful news about vaccination, which has been a success, the fall in contagion, the announcement of 100% of vaccination in residences, the problem is still unresolved. There are other news that we are not paying much attention to or at least from the Government is not being paid. The suspicion that the real dimension of the problem has not been known. According to our partnership, 1214 have been killed. Better say, "We've had 'em" and 'em say '10'. Disparities in the results of satisfaction surveys, whether they are carried out by the deputies or by family associations. The strikes of the workers in the sector who are still fighting. It was the same day that Gipulia and the private abodes of Abak last week. The news shows us. The facts show us a crude truth, and some of them demand an answer. And the answer is only politics. It is necessary and urgent to get out of the logic of immediacy and urgency. And we must dare to address the real debate, which is always postponed: the reorganization of social services from the guarantee of the subjective right to care, including the residential system and all those covered by the portfolio decree. This reorganization must respond to a model of a country that gives social and territorial cohesion. Because there is no common model. Three territories, three models. The government had as many doors as this. Why isn't he one and he a good one? What matters now is that the Basque Government leads. It has to be accountable and evaluated, it has to promote interdepartmental and inter-institutional cooperation, because when we talk about the success or effectiveness of social services, what we are talking about is social justice. Otsailaren 20years genuine gogoratu, gizzarte batek berek erakundeen bidez berger buruari ematen dion justice da. Because to do care policies is to recognize to feminist practice and theory one of its fundamental contributions, that capital and life are in conflict, that care is indispensable for life and that one cannot rest on families, on the bodies of women, the responsibility of women. Therefore, reorganizing them, rethinking them from the public to the community is a task that we cannot afford to postpone. It's time, therefore, to rethink the guards, public and communal views, without delay or delay. It is necessary for a living care, because it is necessary, because life must always be above money, and women cannot, as we have hitherto done, take this burden on our shoulders and shoulders. That is why from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we bring in this motion very clear and concrete proposals: that a general investigation be carried out and that responsibilities be cleansed because it is more than proven that regulations and protocols have not been complied with in the residences. And I will say more, because the Basque Government should be the first to clarify facts, to investigate, to promote these inspections, because it is the way in which we achieve democratic legitimacy, we give certainty and we show that we are as responsible as we ask citizens to be. We also propose that the management of the High Inspectorate in the field of social services be provided with economic and personal resources, and that it fulfil the functions already assigned to it, such as ensuring compliance with the conditions guaranteeing the right to social services, the adequacy of the level of services and services and the fulfilment of the requirements laid down in the management of the Basque system of social services or issuing a report for referral to this House. Another of our proposals is for an independent audit of residential centres. Trade unions and family associations have been repeatedly criticizing the fact that the parliaments themselves are being inspected and, in many cases, there is also doubt as to whether they are doing so. This does not give confidence to the citizenry, they knock with their rollers on General Boards any initiative of the opposition that goes in this sense, as it has been in the case of Bizkaia last week or in Araba Boards recently, and this generates a lot of feeling of distrust, of not wanting to make criticism and less self-criticism. And it is essential to assess from an integral perspective. We also propose to create a space for participation with social partners, with trade unions, with associations of family members and users, even with users themselves. We've been listening to them for a year that they don't meet with them, that they don't listen to their contributions, that they don't listen to their job demands either. We demand dialogue tables with civil society, with social actors. Auzolana eta "bertan joy" ez will say bataragarriak. That is the difference between governance that improves living conditions and a government from the office. Another of our proposals is to design an awareness campaign, a campaign designed in plain language to inform about protocols, risk prevention, vaccination. We also propose to train the staff of the residences, to train them and for the correct implementation and follow-up of contingency plans and protocols in force. I believe that the logic of our proposals is very clear. If the citizens, if the workers of the residences, if users and family members, do not know their rights or have adequate training to ensure their health, we are leaving them to the will of third parties or, which is the same, we leave them subject to precariousness and misinformation. Our proposals, I repeat, are clear, simple and, moreover, fall within the current framework that they handle and would entail a substantial improvement because what now prevails is the lack of coordination, the lack of information and the lack of protection that all this generates. Mr. Rodriguez, we are grateful to you for coming to an agreement and helping you to make a motion. PP-Citizens. Garrido andrea, eskerrik asko addzioengatik. They're in line with ours. Although I do not sign our amendment, I know that we have a common line on today's issue, and I wanted to thank you. EAJ. Mrs. Ipiñazar, we're sorry we didn't make a deal. We've been trying on our side, but, well, your standards and ours aren't... They're different. For us, though we may have common points, it is not enough that we should be corrected. What the government has to do is keep doing. This is the order which regulates the establishments and the management of them. "Well, no obstate, poes, me were pestarles que reconsideras su poseque, well, yo creo que businesses que recomos en nunstra del marco que estableice elbierno Vasco." On the other hand, too, it seems to me increasingly evident that it intends not to move a single apex, to get bogged down in an increasingly distant and remote government, in this case, from the suffering of the people of the residences. And, well, it seems to me that they are amending opposition initiatives with aspects that should already be being met and that do not bring any substantial improvement. From my parliamentary group, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, we will not give up utopia because, moreover, this utopia is increasingly real and this utopia is called "residential model change". I ask you, please, not to let go of what has clearly been a real mourning, which has been a community mourning without families and home users feeling closer to us. We can't afford another wasted decade. And I think we owe it to all our elders. And that, with such motions, we can do a repair exercise. The lost time is gone, but time is taking time, so let's not lose another decade without moving. Let's do a reform job for our elders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Passing the corrections, representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadans, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'll be brief. Good morning, comrades. We have discussed this subject several times in this legislature, the affairs of particular and independent conditions. As I have said, we have discussed it several times in the legislature, and, well, extensive agreements have often been possible, sometimes not possible. But, well, we've also agreed to a few minimum in the parliament, when, as I said, we've treated this matter. The absences of supplies are especially apparent. There they were, some even as a physical problem, but they've been especially exposed to the panic of the pandemade. And I think it is proper to inquire into this matter, what has happened, and to regulate the measures that concern it. And that's where we think the RedMork has an important role when we search for solutions and start it off. Well, the debate on the situation of residences is not new in Euskadi, and in this Parliament we have dealt with it on numerous occasions. As I pointed out, at times broad agreements have been possible, at other times these agreements have not been possible with so much consensus, but at least on some points, leaving the different groups more partisan approaches aside, we have made possible minimum agreements in relation to the situation of residential centres in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Although the management of these centres is the responsibility of the outside bodies, the social services, the Basque Government does have the powers conferred on it by the Social Services Act 2005. And, on many occasions, well, we have demonstrated the lack of diligence or leadership by the Basque Government in developing the instruments which, as I say, under its powers, the Basque Government itself has attributed under the Social Services Act. One of them is that of inspection, which was also a figure that we introduced in the debate, by amendment, of this law, a few years ago, as I say, a few years ago. And well, we regret, and we have to regret that today the competence of the High Inspectorate is not exercised as such by the Basque Government. "En estæ sentimentalo, es una de las cuesmentes que planamos en endora de totalidae que presentamos en la inlicativa de Podemos." And we think it's necessary to appeal to this jurisdiction and start it, and this is... On the other hand, as we have also reiterated by this group in some other debates in which we have dealt with the issue of residences and their situation and their problems, some, as I said, are already dragging themselves structurally, but others that have also emerged more clearly with the pandemic crisis when it comes to managing these situations. I am also remembering the shortage of protection material for the staff of the residences, I am also reminded of the elaboration of protocols that certainly arrived a little late. A little the situation of helplessness in which the residential centres were located, and that, although it was then possible to channel the situation, arbitrating also the specific normative instruments to be able to channel and provide a solution to the situations that arose on the day-to-day of the residences, because, as I say, I believe that much more could have been done on the part of the Basque Government. On the other hand, something which is also repetitive in this Parliament remains to be seen. We have already reached a broad agreement in this Parliament on the revision of the decree on residential centres, and I think it is time – and we have the adviser here – for the Basque Government to show sensitivity on this issue. And, apart from that, she herself has also committed herself to addressing this issue, and let us hope that it will be as soon as possible. And, as I said earlier, we believe that it is also important to analyse the situation of residences. In that regard, we believe that a thorough analysis should be made of the problem, of the shortcomings that have been identified. And, on the other hand, we also support the development of an independent audit that also marks the way forward on what measures are needed to, as I say, alleviate and address many of the identified deficits. Well, in short, I was also given the opportunity to introduce some question into the text that Bildu and Podemos have finally subscribed to. Well, I, in that sense, as I believe it is a minimum in which we are in common, and it reflects the approaches we have put forward from our group, will support the compromise amendment agreed by the Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu Group. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u19	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Rodriguez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u20	Thank you, Mrs. President. Chief department, congressmen, good morning. Well, as Mrs Garrido has well remembered, it's not the first time we've been able to discuss the housing centers, and unfortunately it won't be the last time. In the last discussion, in the last discussion we had in this whole chamber, I read a witness, a testimony of Carmen. He was the manager of a small center and he told us about the life of a resident whose name was Eugenia, and how isolation had an awful effect on his life. Gaur, aldiz, testigantza beasts beat irakurriko dut, Andres, buruaran suhiltzaile testigantza. Honela said: "I often preferred that the elderly, as long as there were no reliable results of the tests, should be locked in their rooms, rather than regrouping them in areas, for fear of losing control and that the whole building would thus be contaminated. The result was appalling, a succession of closed doors, sometimes locked, and people knocking and begging to leave. A horror." Where does this testimony come from? Well, this testimony has been received in this report: Poco, tarde y mal, a report made by the doctor at Gabe. This report was presented by David Noguera, the doctor of the Gabei, the president of the Spanish community, in this legislature. And in front of the ones we got here, the government team said to him, wordfully: "La Situción en Euskadi es mejor." This opinion, too, was expressed at the previous inspection. At the February 5th control meeting the chief physician said: "No titene nada que ver con setución descrita en este informe." No tiene nada que ver larealidad de Euscadi." But the problem is not that it has nothing to do with it, the problem is not that the testimonies collected here are not part of our reality, the problem is that they are not part of the story, of its story. For the past few weeks and months we have known fragments of the reality that lived in our shores. For instance, September 28th, a inspection of the forum in a communary apartment finds this: There was a working worker with positive COVID working because there was not enough work. At the entrance they found two patients wandering about. What had the inspector Foru to do? Well, take all the residents and go to a public center. November 12th, in another communal apartment, where, in theory, the average dependence can be carefully handled, all the residents were psychogetric. That's how you get it on inspection. Besides, he was found tied up in one of the rooms, and we don't know how many days he was tied up. Gainera, ikuskapen-akta horretan irakurri daiteke, hitzez hitz: "In room number 5 there is a confirmed COVID-19 user. As he enters the hall, he is heard speaking in a loud voice and shouting. Refers to the caregiver who is usual." Egun bat beranduago, exebizitza komunitario berdinean, lehen aipatu dudan egoiliarrak lotuta jarraitzen zuen. November 17, same communal housing, five days later connected to the resident, in this case not in his room, in front of the television. During the last two weeks in the month of the month, a broset in a retro, a significant amount of dead bodies, and what does the inspector say? That the center wasn't in the zoo. And, further, we can read in our observations in words: "Una de las personas que dice dice es deambulante y de trato difícil." "E el momento de la visita oímos cómo goalpea la puerta en reverentidas ocares." Well, I can continue, but these are parts or examples of this reality, of this living reality. Why did I spend the dates? All these didn't happen in the first wave, they were in the second wave. We knew the virus and the measures we had to take. Hauek bizipen personsonalak will say. Euskal Herria Bilduk adriari from the Honetan bizipen forum personnalak politicikoak was the bulwark. There is an intimate connection between personal and political problems. The personal problem of a person who is bound against his will or a person who is locked up, who shouts and who doesn't understand anything, is also a political problem, is also a political problem. If we move from these personal experiences to the coldness of the data, we can also extract information and knowledge from the data. What do the data tell us? To put some examples, that in the first wave, for example, in a residential center managed by a large multinational, where in just a few weeks a quarter of the users died, at least half with confirmed positive COVID. Also in the first wave, for example, in Bizkaia, in a center, almost all, 100% of users, were infected and at least half died within a few weeks. For example, in the third wave, in Bizkaia, in a center, in the third wave, I insist, in a center of 103 users, 93 were infected, and a significant number died. I could go on. I do not want to fail to mention the data without commenting on the last statistical plot that we live in. My partner Rebeka Ubera asked the Health Advisor about this, and Deputy Councillor Quintas responded... I'm not going to go into the answer to whether it's 500 or 1,000, but there's a question of the answer the counselor gave that does seem to me to be underlined. He said, "We are not going to offer figures that contradict the figures of the outlaws." And there's the key, to protecting the institution at the expense of transparency. Personal experiences and data agree in two elements. The first element is that, thanks to the work of political institutions, social institutions and journalists, these things have surfaced. And the second element is that in front of these circumstances, the Administration hasn't taken the responsibility. It did not intervene, that is the characteristic, this is a dogma, the non-intervention in the management of the entire pandemic. The true Basque differential fact in the management of residential centers is not to have intervened. It's the real Basque differential fact. But in order not to intervene we need a justification, it needs a justification, and there we fall into the narrative. The narrative is defined, according to the RAE, in two meanings. A first meaning is "knowledge that is given, generally detailed, of a fact." General knowledge of a fact. The second is "narration or story." The problem is that this second sense is being used. I could give you some examples of stories, of how stories are built, but I won't, I might do it in the replica. All for the story. "Be careful with the story," David Noguera reminded the president of Doctors Without Borders. He insisted: "We are suffering a phenomenon of stories; we must be honest with the story, if it has happened, if it has happened we must explain it". Therefore, we need more first meaning, more first meaning of narrative and less second meaning; more knowledge and less storytelling. You have to be honest, honesty in the story. Honesty in the account of what happened, is what we ask here today. Using the five doubles of journalism, we want to know, we want to know what, who, when, where, and, above all, why, that's what we ask. Today is the request of EH Collector: and, above all, what had happened and how it had happened. Intuition tells me the question is not in questions, but because you foresee what answers and answers are that you do not like them. The key I believe is not so much the questions, but the answers that you can foresee. Let us not ask ourselves questions whose answer may bother us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u21	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u22	Thank you, President. Today we are discussing urgent measures to ensure the effectiveness and adequacy of the VOCID-19 protocols in residential social services. But then we go to the measures that the proposing group includes in its proposal in this motion, and what we see is that the intention does not have much to do with the title raised. In a way, it is another way of presenting to this House its true intention, which is to conduct a general investigation into the current state of residential centre networks. Let's make some history. You, the Elkarrekin Group, Mrs González, began on 1 October in this Basque Parliament the debate on a proposal for a presentation on the care system in Basque. At that time, this proposal did not succeed, but a compromise amendment was adopted signed between the Basque Nationalist, Basque Socialist and Basque-Citizens. And in this transactional amendment, among other things, the need and commitment to carry out the amendment of Decree 126/2019, of residential centers, was already recognized. A commitment that, on the other hand, had already been assumed by the Basque Nationalist group and Basque Socialist group within that government agreement. As well as within this government agreement, the commitment is made to address the review of the care model in a broad sense. Also, another point pointed out, and reference was made, and the Basque Government was urged, through the strategy of non-professional caregivers, to consider an analysis of the current situation of the measures to be taken and the timetable of action and budget necessary for this. In other words, it already envisaged the commitment to make the analysis of this current situation. That is why we were not in agreement at the time with the need to have a careful presentation within this Parliament. And we have come to this initiative. I register the inquiry that was debated in plenary on 5 February, before the motion that we are debating today. And suddenly, also on 5 February, another initiative is presented by the parliamentarians of the EH Bildu group, where it is also proposed the creation of a special study commission that starts from an audit of all the residential centers following the crisis of the COVID-19 and makes within six months an opinion of conclusions that will be taken into account and must be inserted within the decree 116/2019 of residential centers for the elderly in the area of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. And seeing what you really wanted from the beginning, which is reflected in this initiative, what you want is for a general investigation to be initiated into the current state of residences, not to discuss the model we want or not and to improve in the future, no, but simply to identify breaches of regulations and protocols and to clear up responsibilities, should negligence be detected. And, on the other hand, they call for the High Inspectorate's competence to be strengthened. And of course, in the amendment to the whole proposed by the EH Bildu Group to the initiative being debated today, what do they do? For collecting all the actions already contained in the GNP that they presented on 5 February, but they add something else: ask for the increase of the High Inspectorate of Education. And both, logically, have been translated and unified into the compromise amendment that the Elkarrekin Podemos group and the EH Bildu group have finally signed, and that seems to support the People-Citizens group. That is to say, what they want both initiatives is to decide within this Parliament what should enter and what should not enter into the amendment of the decree of residential centres; that is, to replace the work to be done by the Basque Government itself by deciding here what they want to enter or not, apart from initiating a commission of study or investigation, which is the purpose pursued from the beginning, in order to sow the doubt of the actions carried out by the Basque Government itself in the field of the residences of older persons since the beginning of the COVID pandemic19. And, of course, we do not agree with the policy of certain opposition groups, that what they want is to sow doubt, to refer it to committees of inquiry to clear up responsibilities, because that is the only thing that ultimately interests them. But you do not take into account all the measures and policies that have been implemented from the different departments of the Basque Government over the past year, since the beginning of the pandemic, and among those measures I highlight as one of the measures that have been taken and that have served to mitigate the consequences of the VOCID-19 pandemic, the collaboration and coordination that has taken place at all times from the Ministry of Social Policy with the Basque Government from the Department of Health and the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy and the outlaws, facing a very serious pandemic, although you, Mrs González, question it. In addition, to present this initiative, you have used the data from the report by Médecins Sans Frontières, which was prepared in August 2020 for the whole of Spain and which within it already refers, as the Counsellor pointed out in her speech of 5 February, to the fact that the care mechanisms have worked in Euskadi and that a great effort has been made within the residences of Euskadi in order to implement and respect the circuits and the measures of prevention and control. And they have perceived greater fluidity in this coordination, which they have not seen in other autonomous communities. Why are they obviating precisely that within their intervention? And they also forget that it is the outlaws that have direct competence in the management of the centres, but health coordination is carried out to alleviate the effects, and moreover, as Councillor Artolazabal reported in her speech of 5 February, many measures were taken, contingency plans were adopted in the residences complying with the recommendations of that report precisely. The inspection teams of residential centres were expanded with the participation of persons from the Department of Health and the Department of Social Policy, i.e. the High Inspectorate and the Inspectorate were already strengthened, apart from many other measures and, in addition, the compromise to amend this Decree 126/2019 was adopted in both the Government Agreement and the transactional amendment, already adopted on 1 October, and there is a commitment that the ratios will be revised and a revision of the residence model will also be carried out with the provision of this service. Vaccination has also been carried out for older residents and professionals who provide services there, which will also serve to improve conditions for the future. And for all these arguments we cannot agree with the initiative put forward, because we believe that this committee of study and research is not necessary. The revision of the model is a commitment that has already been and will be made and is being implemented. Nor do we agree with the amendment by the People's-Citizens Group, which again calls for the amendment of the residence decree, and that commitment is already being made and, therefore, what we are going to support is our amendment to the whole of the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist Group, because, in the end, it reflects the commitment that we have already made in our government agreement. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u23	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all. Well, once again in this legislature, it will discuss the model of the old men's egoting. For the end of this proposition is not, in our opinion, to examine the state of the old, as it may at first give, but to seek a change of pattern. To find a pattern that suits one's own better, isn't it? We continue to fight models, making up initiatives with other kinds of supposed goals. At least we shall all agree, when we confess that we want the best quality of life for our old men. At least I think we all agree with each other there. We're in favor of a model that makes people downtown, and the Eukon Christmas, the management of the three homelands, and the management of the old buildings themselves, and even the hard situations they live in in when they are in COVID, the needs of residents are being placed in the centre by the intention of obtaining the highest outcome of their own well-being and their life quality. And for all of us, I want to put in value that labour which is made for us all. Since other groups do not say so, then, I say so. The coordination and collaboration between the Basque Government and the three outlaws has been, remains and will continue to be constant and always in pursuit of comprehensive care and care. I'm jealous of Dadila's clay. Leaving this clear, I'll start from the beginning. Bearing in mind that there has been no intention of reaching any agreement with the groups that we support the Government, and I have said that intention, I do not try, I intend, because, if by intention it is considered to send a text that includes all the amendments of the groups except our own, then I do not know whether it has been a coincidence or neglect... But, well, a compromise proposal that includes all the amendments from the groups except our own, of course, seems to me to be a least curious way of wanting to reach an agreement, leaving our contributions directly aside. Anyway. As I said, I'll start at the beginning. From your initial text justification. It's true it's almost 20 days ago. And if we consider this, we must confess that the situation in the houses has changed a little since then, especially by the breathing of vaccinations. We may at the present day say that Euscadin's tenedity is a downward basis, always with all the attention and preventiveness of the world, and we may even observe that it is also the agent and leading of this society. Unfortunately, because it is a property of this pandemia, and we have seen it, every one may enter through every chink, though the measure be present. But we cannot say that this is only due to the dependence of the old man. Behind an efficient watch management many elements participate. That is to say, when we speak of a service of quality, there are many dealers after it, and even the management of the centres, workers, families, and institutions themselves. And it seems to me that, through this motion, you want to leave many questions as in doubt or question them directly. On the one hand, it is asked to assess whether management has been one of the factors explaining the impact of COVID on each centre and to what extent. Without a doubt, during this pandemic, we have all been learning about this subject from experience. And, no doubt also, it is necessary to consolidate this experience and strengthen the capacity of the system and of each of the residential centers with different and relevant issues, such as location, architectural characteristics... taking all that into account, to respond to situations like this or others that may occur in the future. But to do this well, we believe it is important, in our opinion, to accumulate experience, to take a certain distance from the emergency situation, to differentiate aspects and to take into account multiple factors, as I said earlier, in addition to the management of each centre, enriching the analysis. It also seems appropriate to avoid prior judgements and generalizations in relation to aspects such as the quality of the management of the centres or others, such as, for example, the concerted direct or private governance model. One of the other aspects of the case is, in the first place, the co-ordination of the Medical Department and of the three aldunities. I must also say that there has been a direct connection between the health system and the system of social services, and that the Inspecation has also been introduced in this connection. Close, to the point of establishing a direct connection between the Department of Health and the outlaws as responsible for the management of the residential centres for the elderly, integrated in the Basque system of social services, and also as responsible for the inspection of all the centres, both of public and private responsibility. Contingency plans were approved from the outset. The residential centre inspection teams were expanded, both the out-of-town inspection services and those of the Department of Health, Hasieratik. In this context, joint inspections have also been carried out by the Department of Health and out-patients in the centres. The competence of the Government, of the Department with competence in the field of social services, does not include the inspection of centres. According to the law, it is up to the outlaws to inspect the centres, both authorized and approved, and, in the case of identifying violations of the regulations and protocols, to take the relevant measures within the scope of their competence and in accordance with the regime of infringements and sanctions established by law. Besides, I was convinced of you yesterday, Mrs. González, in our opinion, the competitions between the Euskon and the aldudias get mixed up in this morocco. If we take the last three points of your initial text, they're the competition of the aliens. And you're asking for a Red Beetle. These three proposals belong to the competition of the aldunities, if performed in each particular center, with the organ and so on of the workers, of the family, and of the direction of the users, as well as as as of historical territory. It doesn't mean that there should be no help from the Medical Department, especially if it's for the protocol and contact plans, and it's been, as I said, because every moment of the medical department has been working with aldunities. I'll give you an example of vice, because it's close to me, a report made by the National Social Act: "Informe coordinado por el servicio de inspección y el servicio de centros del Departamento de Acción Social de la Divezion Forzia." In six months, 207 inspecations have been made. And in this case, I am well aware that I have a direct relationship with the older members of my district, and that in the first person it has been confirmed that the fordunities have had, almost every week, protocol and direct contact according to the state of the pandemia. And, well, testimony can be of all sorts. Without neglecting anyone, but testimony is of all kinds. The other thing is the "Alta Inspecion" you're talking about. That's what you're talking about. But that has nothing to do with the impact of the COVID pandemic. So, actuciones, pues, creo que hay. And now that I'm almost finished, I'll leave our view of "Alta Inspección" for the second round. Yesterday I mentioned to you, I think we have different conceptions of the "Alta Inspección." And, well, I'm going on for the second round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Myst. Mrs Martínnez mustn't speak. Passing on the answers, together, Podemos-Unctioner, Miss González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u26	Well, briefly. I wanted to tell Mrs Sánchez of the PSOE that if you have assumed what you have to do – because you have agreed to it in the government agreement, because you subscribe to it in the amendments to which you have reached an agreement with the government – we only ask you to comply. I don't think we're asking for anything from the other world. If you know what you have to do and, above all, you are signing and reaffirming it continuously here and you do not do so, because from some political group you have to tell them to move, that it is very good to sign a government agreement five months ago, that it is very good to come here and adopt amendments yourself, but you will have to comply with it, at some point you will have to start. The data we handle are the same, the sources, the data from the report of Medicus Mundi, the report of Doctors without Borders, those data are the same. What I have denounced here is that the data coming from public sources are not the same, and that is to draw attention. The care system. I'll always remember that plenary. They were all in favour, but then they did not vote in favour, because the system is rethinking a care system. That's what social justice is all about! It's just, what are we seeing, what are we living? Anyway, in residences, we're seeing it in the education system, we're seeing it in social services, we're seeing it in primary care. Rethinking the care system is urgent! It's urgent. Mrs Pinedo, I think we don't make up the initiatives, we don't make up the initiatives. I think I've been very clear at the exhibition. It is true that what we want is to change the residential model, is that the initiatives that we present here go in that line because, equally, if we wanted to continue in the model that we have, equally, because we would not be sitting there, we would be sitting on this side. So, I don't think we make up, I think we're very clear, we're very honest. And, well, and "learning from experience," you mentioned. Three waves we've had, three waves of people killed in residences. We are constantly watching the strikes of the workers of the residences. We have to get something out of it, because it's no use for us to come back now and say, "No, it's not that again, it's the variant now, it's the variant of not knowing where... "Of course, we don't have experience with this. But if it's in management, it's almost all made up. What needs to be put on is to work on it and not let the time pass because right now time is death. To take distance – which he also said, "take distance" –, to take distance the best are independent investigations, because to inspect yourself – which is what we were talking about, what the deputies do about residences – in the end is to investigate themselves. You have to look for an external eye, an external eye that puts a little distance, a little balance. We, I think we also ask for something very clear – and I think I have explained it very clearly – we are asking for leadership. We are aware of the competences of the deputies and of the competences of the Basque Government, and what we do not see is leadership. I was telling the counselor in an interrogation the other day, that from social services, from social services policies, you could have a lot more leadership than we're seeing in what we're living in. I'd even dare say that almost as much as in Health, but we're not seeing it. And in this case, what we are asking of the Basque Government is leadership. And we ask them to unify criteria. Three territories, three models. Everyone will have good things. Let's take out the good things that models have and unify criteria. The proposals of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, I believe they have political value and have political value because they have human value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Basque Popular Groups, from there, Mrs Garrido,
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u28	Mrs. President, if you'll excuse me, I'll replicate this from the seat. Well, the numbers I think speak for themselves, don't they? Nearly 1,000 deaths in the year 2020 in residential centres. Forty per cent of deaths, which occurred in the Basque Country in relation to the pandemic, occurred in residential centres. And from now on, as more than 1,000 people have died, with the latest data we have, in residential centers. I believe that it obliges the public institutions, the different public institutions, to make a reflection. What has happened in residential centres in managing this crisis? And in that sense, well, I have to say that the Basque Government, although the powers in the management of these centres belong to the outlaws, the Basque Government does have powers, has regulatory powers. And in this regard, I believe it should be remembered that the diligence of the Basque Government in this matter has been highlighted by its absence in terms of regulatory development with the adoption of successive decrees deriving from the Social Services Act 2005. And another outstanding issue is the High Inspection. This is a figure which was taken up, as I have said before, on the proposal of our group in this law. And the Basque Government has done nothing about it. I therefore believe that, by telling the spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party, I believe that, without prejudice to the management powers of the outside institutions, the Basque Government does have coordination, leadership and inspection powers, which it must exercise, and therefore cannot escape from the powers legally conferred on it by law. And that is a bit what we are systematically calling for in these debates, and that is what we are putting into this amendment. You too, in your amendment, speak of the very decree of residential centres. That is to say, it has a regulatory capacity because these issues are also legislated in the Basque Parliament. And, therefore, I believe that one cannot be inhibited from the competences he has attributed. In this case, that is what we are calling for, for the Basque Government to do, to assume its responsibility once again in this area.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u29	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Rodriguez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u30	Mila esker, andrea president. I gave earlier, in my first intervention, some examples of how this story is being built. It is intended to build a story in the second meaning of the term, which is as a story, not as an objective analysis of reality, which was to give you in this second intervention. I'm going to give you two examples. I used to talk about that in a Bizkaia center, during the third wave, that is, recently, 100% of users had ended up with positive COVID. 100 %. An outbreak and almost 100% with positive COVID. In spite of that, the counselor, last day 5, was literally telling us that "the outbreaks had been effectively controlled." Reality, story. Something similar happened when the counselor was also interviewed on 27 April in El Correo – they can search the hemerotecas – and stated that the model had protected people, the residential model, because 500 people from 18,500 users had died. That the model had protected. On 5 February, when this number of deaths has already doubled and exceeded at least 1,000, the reflection was the same: "valid model to protect people". To support that story, to support that story, against reality, against reality. During the past budget debate, Nafarroa and the agreements that existed in Nafarroa, the actions of the Nafarroa governments, were discussed on numerous occasions. Today when my group, in contributing to this debate, the fundamental contribution made by this group, Euskal Herria Bildu, was an audit of what happened, we did not ask for something not to be done in Nafarroa. This audit by the Government of Nafarroa of what happened in residential centres, this audit, was carried out after the first wave, after the first wave. With a series of knowledge, he drew a series of conclusions that they implemented in the centers during the second wave. We don't ask for anything but this. And talking about Nafarroa also allows me to talk about the decree, the decree of residential centers. Although it was already published in September, it never came into force, and that decree is not yet in force, it has no full effect. I insist, it was published in September 2019, and already in October Parliament called for it to be revised, because there were frankly unacceptable elements as to the model being proposed. It's been a year and a half. Nothing has been done at all, nothing at all. He asks, and we are told, that it is good, because they are still waiting to start that process, to start that process, that regulatory review. Of course, in the meantime – I return to Nafarroa – between the first and the second wave, they began to roll a modification of the decree. No wonder, huh? The new regulation that arises in Nafarroa... I think there are critical elements with that new regulation, but in Nafarroa they have been able to. What are they, more diligent than this government? Is it a problem of attitude, of aptitude? What's the problem? What's the problem? I think the problem is that it doesn't occupy or worry. I think that's the problem. He mentioned the Socialist Party spokesman's vaccination of the centers, the vaccination scenario. For us, too, it is a horizon of hope. Vaccination of residential centres and persons using residential centres is a horizon, on the one hand, of hope. It is hoped that many of the containment measures adopted can be relaxed almost immediately. Because people's well-being is not only physical, it includes other areas, which in many cases of management have not been taken into account or respected. But along with hope, along with hope, we also have a fear, we have a fear. May that horizon, may that horizon serve you to give a necessary debate, to the debate on the conditions under which we care for 18,500 people in the residential centres of the Basque Autonomous Community. That, by the way, by the way, there is an issue that should be clarified for the umpteenth time: there is no model, there is no model. There are several models, at least one for each herrilade. Because you'll tell me what the model is. What is the model, Gipuzkoa's, which guarantees 40 minutes more attention than Bizkaia's? Does Araba, which, together with direct public management, co-exists a very important area built at check-services and with salaries of 900 euros? What's the model? It doesn't exist. There is no model, there are several models. I'm done. Conclusion. The conclusion of this debate, heard by the groups of the Government and the predictable umpteenth block of the opposition's proposals, is that on a debate that affects 18,500 people, to the care of 18,500 people, the opposition groups of this House cannot propose nor can we give our opinion, nor can we even ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u31	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u32	Of course, measures were taken at very difficult times. And the debate or the study, or the review, let's call it what we want, what model we want, what improvements we should make to it, taking into account what has happened, everything that has happened during the pandemic, since it appeared, because we are still within the COVID-19 pandemic, it is necessary and evident. But the commitment to it is already there, it has already been collected within the government agreement. We were already aware at that time that, of course, that model had to be revised to learn, to improve, because reviewing to improve is always constructive, it is always positive and, of course, it is going to be done and it is going to be done. But it is not only going to take place here, within our Basque Autonomous Community. It is going to take place and a paper has been launched within the Congress of Deputies to review in positive, constructive, what we can change from our residential model to improve for the future. I mean, that debate is that it's there and that work is started at the state level, and it's happening, it's going to take place here in our autonomous community. It's just that I have no doubt about that, because checking to improve is always positive. We have a good model, but we have to turn it around, make a study and make some conclusions to improve that, obviously, taking into account this experience, which no one would have imagined, but, obviously, the reality has put it on the table for us, for it is good, and we will have it, regardless of whether your compromise amendment is adopted here today or your compromise amendment is not adopted in this plenary. You have no doubt about that, Mrs Gonzalez. And neither do you, Mr. Rodriguez. Then, within their initiative, they confuse terms, because they speak, on the one hand, of awareness campaigns, when in reality what they are asking – if you look at the text of all that goes after – is for certain people to be trained. So, they often confuse awareness-raising campaigns with training, they confuse the competences of each other. So, of course, we agree that this review must be carried out. Of course it is going to be done, because we are also convinced, but at the state level, because it is logical that we want it, and at the autonomous community level it is logical that we want to improve so that with all this study, this review, because we take the measures that allow us, if something like this comes back in the future, because it is much stronger and obviously it catches us much better. There are commitments made – end – and they will be fulfilled. I'm convinced of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u33	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours. (He spoke off the phone)... I shall now go round the Ala Inspección, because I see that there are different views about the concept.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u34	So I'm going to the law to get this charity made clear, because that's what's going on. In the Law of Social Services it is clear: "Corsponde a la Alta Inspección generio el armyi del derecho subjetiv proclando en el artículo 2 de state misma ley." Eta 83. artikuluan drink funtzioak aipatzen say, ezta? Honela, arina izango naiz: "To ensure compliance with the basic conditions guaranteeing the right to social services, to verify the adequacy of the levels of service or provision offered by the Basque system of social services, to verify compliance with the requirements laid down by the general management of the Basque system of social services in relation to the planning, programming of social services, the authorization and inspection of service providers and the evaluation and diagnostic functions, –eta, azkena – to verify the adequacy of the concerts and contracts of management of social services to the criteria laid down by this Law and its development provisions. It is clear that this section of article 83 more clearly narrows down the scope of this High Inspectorate, and is linked to the objective of ensuring the effective exercise of the subjective right to social services, as specified in the law and in the portfolio decree in all the public, private and non-concerted centres. In short, the task of the High Inspectorate focuses on ensuring that citizens have effective access to the benefits and services of the portfolio of benefits and services of the Basque System of Social Services to which they have a subjective right of access in the terms defined in the decree of the portfolio of benefits and services". Then the concept of the Alta Inspección, well defined, must be said to be what everyone ought to do, in this case, the incest of COVID-19, has not been compromised in a great measure by the entrance to these services, because it is intended to that Alta Inspección. As I said, the impact of the COVID crisis is not significantly compromising effective access to services and services for those entitled. So it would have been all right to differentiate, as I said before, the competition between the Euskon and the three almond trees, and, on the one hand, to distinguish the concepts, because it is not the same as the three stucco-dunks, when we're talking about the inspecinct. And it is evident that every one from his sphere is doing all that he ought to do to direct the most difficult and severe circumstances which have been placed in these old abodes. Hala ere, eta dena laburbilduz, esan guera dut that talking about institutional abuse, sincerely, seems to me a lack of respect for everyone and everyone who fights this pandemic and to take care of those we want most. It seems to me, frankly, disrespectful to talk about institutional abuse. Finally, we're going to confirm the engagement. As Mrs. Sánchez said, we will protect our correction. And as it is mentioned, we have proposed the adaptation of a decree which regulates the centers of the old men's abodes, though it introduces our point in this correction, and encourages the regulation of the service in regulating them, to ensure the proper conditions of development and social services, stability, provisions, price, and homogeneous competition. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. Subject list point 4: "Motion, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Gordillo Pérez, a populiar, a member of the Ciudadans, a member of the community of prison services, rules, and exercises upon the management of human resources. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn to propose team, Mr. Gordillo, to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u36	Thank you, Madam President, members of the Bureau, members of the Government, First and Second Vice-Lehendakaris, ladies and gentlemen. The motion that I am going to defend next, and which will then be voted on at the end of the day, is certainly a motion on the issue of prisons, it is a motion on the subject of competences, it is a motion on the administration, but above all it is a motion on transparency, transparency and the role that Parliament must play in the government's control work. Look, this motion, which is known to all, comes from an inquiry that I made to the councilwoman, also here kindly present, of Public Governance and Self-Government, concerning the transfer of material and human means for the exercise of competences relating to the organization, regime and functioning of the prison services, what is usually known, is not accurate, perhaps not very precise the expression, but what is usually known as the transfer of prisons, for understanding us here today. What I said in the interpellation, and we repeat it again, is that this process, which is a process of transfer, which is a process above all of adjustment of what are the material means, the personal means within an administration for the best exercise and the most efficient exercise of a competition, because it has been a process that has been carried out with total opacity. There's a draft agreement, we've been getting word from the press. I do not say that we should not have a certain discretion in certain matters, but what is really very striking to me as a parliamentarian is that we should always be given preference to media leaks, that we should have to learn about this through the media rather than find out here in this Parliament, which is where Basque citizenship is represented and which is also to be affected mostly or mainly by this transfer. It came out in the press, therefore, that there was a draft agreement, it came out in the press, therefore, that there was a deadline for the last day of this month or next month, sorry, of the month of March, it came out in the press, therefore, that we are talking about the issue of whether officials here or there. It's out in the press, the few data that's out, which hasn't been much, have out in the press. Look, the subject, first of all, of the transfer, of what prisons are, the material and personal means for the exercise of these competences, is a complex and delicate transfer in many respects, is complex and delicate. I'm putting you in a position, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, the issue of officials. I have also read in the press, which is the usual way to find out about issues that may affect the Government, which spoke of up to a thousand officials. The reality is that they do not even reach 700, there are more than 600 than 700 the actual number of staff currently employed in one of the centres located in the Basque Country. As for inmates, there are approximately 1,300 in prisons, in the prisons of the Basque Country, of which half, 650, 700, are in third grade. With this, formally, in the center all day are, approximately, because half, 600, 700, too. There are more than 2,000, more than 2,000 inmates who would be responsible, because of their root situation, because of their personal and family situation, for being in a centre in the Basque Country, especially on the day the transfer takes place in the future, but who are in other prisons. Above all, they are interns who are in what is known as the second grade and are in prisons, mainly in Palencia, in Cantabria, etc. The immediate effect of the assumption of this competence, rather than of the competence of the transfer of the means itself, is that it will double, triple the actual number of the prison population in the Basque Country. That is, that is the primary and primordial effect that is going to occur. And then, on the other hand, reading old documents that have been discussed in this Parliament, resolutions and some document that was prepared in its day by the Government, another issue that comes to light is, it seems, the mistrust that is faced with officials working in the prisons in the Basque Country. Look, the officials who work play a very important role in re-education and social reintegration, very important. Very important. From those proposals that we have been familiar with at the time, and also through the press at the time, because there what seemed to be translucent or what seemed to be derived from all this was a mistrust of these officials and, above all, a confidence that the famous third sector would do a better job of social reintegration. In practice, it looks like the effect of the transfer... to complete this transfer of material means, the effect that will have – secondary too – will be to privatize what is social reintegration; privatize it in the third sector. Because that's privatization, too. That's the effect it's going to have, that's the effect it's going to have. But this, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, is almost a secondary debate today; it is another debate. In my view, that is another debate. The debate today is on transparency, on the obligation for a government to send the necessary information to parliamentarians to carry out their work, and above all on this institution. Because one thing is that there is a government that is, let's say, supported by two groups that are arithmetically making up an absolute majority, but the other thing is that Parliament is totally deactivated. And that's why the proposal I made was aimed... It was a very simple proposal, a very simple proposal. It was simply a proposal that I was saying is that within a reasonable time, because according to the press we have learned that they are already only with the small letter, with which practically everything is done and everything closed. The only thing that is asked in the proposal that I am making to this House today is that, in 20 days, they send us the information they have in 20 days. In addition, I have submitted a request for information in another way. But what I was asking in this proposal is for Parliament to support it today, so that the government simply sends us the information it has, simply without going into the prison model aspect, without going into the aspect of how, or the effects this transfer can have, etc. Only that, only information. I've only seen opacity in this whole process. I say it with sadness. The truth is, the absolute majority... The other day Mrs. Gorrotxategi said that she's gone to their head, and they're walking like headless chicken. The truth is, I really think that they have forgotten what Parliament's role is. How bad the absolute majority has sat on them! But above all, how bad it has been for this Parliament's role of control! On this point, it is that, I repeat, we have had to learn from the press. I came to your moment, I said it the other day at the interpellation in this House, I went to the various groups concerned, to see if they had information. I went to the careful reading of the budgets; there was nothing on this issue. I came to the idea, I say, "Maybe in the Governance Committee we are being told about this issue." Neither. I went to the officials, either. They have asked them only two things: one, the issue of pay levels, and two, the level of Basque. The only two things you've apparently worried so far, that we know. I wish we knew more, but since they don't want to tell us, we don't know. I went to the unions; neither. Neither. They've had meetings, courtesans. Everyone, in fact, recognizes it, courtesies and such, but well, we'll see. And that is the proposal made by the Government, or rather that is the amendment to the whole of the Government. As is usually the case, well, that the Government continues as it has been, that it is doing so phenomenal, and if that, in its day, sends the information when the transfer is completed. I therefore say what I say, ladies and gentlemen, and I encourage you to reflect here also with me, and at the turn of the reply you can object to it if you think it is appropriate. I encourage all groups, especially those of the opposition, to support this proposal, to vote in favour of it. Because, it is simply, it is simply to urge the Government to send us the information we need to do our job, the information we need to do our job. I do not come here today, now, to defend my own amendment, of my group, in a certain sense. That I could do so, but no, I have preferred to focus the debate on the issue of the position of this Parliament, which is a very important institutional position and which, since the beginning of this parliamentary term, has been systematically deactivated. Systemically deactivated. The proposals that we put forward by all groups are, to a greater or lesser extent, all amended by the Government; this is normal, this is normal. Besides, we were reminded the other day. Also, from the socialist bench: "No, it's that if you want to approve something, you have to go through here. They have to go through the box, they have to go through the government." It's true, it's obvious; arithmetic is like that. But one thing is to put forward proposals in votes, and another is the obligation that the Government must have, the obligation that the Government must have or that the Government has, in fact, to provide the necessary information to parliamentarians for the exercise of their powers, especially for the representation of citizens, which they are not doing right now. And it's curious because this same group, the majority group in this House, the Basque Nationalist Party, then in Congress it criticizes the same thing, many times the group... now, because they're a little half supporting, right?, but they criticize them a lot, it has criticized that a lot to the PSOE, it has criticized that a lot to other groups, historically, when it ruled so another, the PP, etc., but it has always criticized that in Congress. And yet, when it comes to them, of course, they reapply, and they also do so with tremendous firmness, of course, this policy of obscurantism. Therefore, I simply, ladies and gentlemen, ask here and now for the light to be made; only that, the light to be made. And from there, we can discuss what, what are the alternative proposals that have been put forward here today in this House. What is the proposal that has been put forward, for example, by the Elkarrekin Podemos Group? I might not agree with the wording given to the proposal put forward by the group led by Mrs Gorrotxategi, but I was willing to support it. I was prepared for my group to vote in favour of Mrs Gorrotxategi's proposal, simply because I also urged the Government to present something, something, at least a plan, something, something to this House, but to present it now, not the Government commits itself... some day already if that, to send a plan. No, let him send it now, let him send it now, in a short period of time, let him send it now. I might not agree with the basis of the Elkarrekin Podemos Group's proposal, which says that a plan based on the resolutions that in its day... Well, okay, I may disagree, but then we discuss it in this House, that we can discuss in this House. And there will be a final decision that will represent the plurality and pluralism that is represented today in this House. But not even that, not even that. The government's proposal – and it seems to me that I have not received it, but there may be a compromise between the two groups supporting the government and the Elkarrekin Podemos group – seems that what it does is a little deeper in that. Now we will be explained by those affected, come on, those responsible for it, and what it does is basically to say, "No, let the government continue its policy of transparency." Really? Really? With your transparency policy, really? And negotiation of the remaining competencies. Look, all that tends to urge the Government to present certain roles at a certain time is that it is certainly doomed to failure. That is why I, ladies and gentlemen, finish my first speech today, simply asking for support and what I am asking for now is support, not for me, not for my proposal, not for my group; I am asking for it for the institutional role that this Parliament has as a government control body. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u37	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, representative of the Podemos Union, Mrs. Hattered, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u38	Thank you, ma'am. Well, what a prison model, such a democracy. That is to say, to measure the health of a state is an indispensable element in the treatment it gives its prisoners. I wanted to put this on the table first and once in this discussion, before I spoke about technical things, because that means something I want to make here, and it's the people who are in prison to put in the centre. For they are the principal receivers of such controversies, the effects are in them, the principal conclusions we discuss here. So it's important, it's important to put people in this discussion in the centre. This discussion of ours here today, this discussion of the transfer, permits us to support those who ought to have the rights of prisoners. This transfer of means, of prisons, makes effective... The transfer of powers relating to the operation, organization and operation of the prison services already provided for in the Statute of Self-Government in Articles 10.14 and 12.1. That is to say, this transfer is complying with something that establishes our Statute of Autonomy and, by itself, we believe that it is a good thing and that it must be supported. But it is that, moreover, and linking with what I was saying before, this debate, this transfer is the one that will allow us to make effective, or the one that opens the door to the setting up of a different prison model of its own that... And if I may read explicitly or literally what is reflected in the agreements of the monographic debate that took place on March 13, 2019 in this House: "It is a model that manages the execution of sentences, that puts people in social reintegration, that drives restorative practices, the regime open in all its forms, the second degree with daily prison discharges or probation, the classification and review of degrees, access to social rights and, ultimately, a human rights management that is intelligent and democratic, based on social inclusion centers." This monograph contains a number of resolutions, some of which, for example, tell us about the need to have a more fluid and agile relationship between prison institutions and the institutions responsible for the management of public policies, allowing for the definition of specific socio-health and social protocols and itineraries, enabling therapeutic processes to be established at the community level and for the development of appropriate areas of coexistence and social reintegration aimed at achieving better integration and social reintegration for persons deprived of their liberty in Basque prisons. In addition, the principle of equality of women and men is also reflected as a backbone of internal and external policies, and gender mainstreaming in a cross-cutting manner. The transfer allows us to insert all that I am talking about here into our own penance. And that's something I'd like to insist on here and make the most of it. Hemen aurkeztu aurkeztu aurkeztu aurkeztu aurkeztu aurkeztu aurkeztu aurkeztu aurkeztu aurkeztu aurkeztu aurkrekin ados gaude, one izango litzatekeela Gobernuak flata eratzen dueen hona ekartzea, betan guk ikus tenagun eta berri buruz hitz egiteko aurkarik izan tenagun. Eta horrekin ados gaude, baina iritsi zaigun proposamenak beste... distills another kind of foundation and a starting point that we do not share, and I am referring to... I no longer refer only to the reluctance to comply with the necessary transfers to enforce the Statute of Autonomy. I am also referring, above all, to the prison model that seems to go beyond this initiative in which things are said, for example, such as privatization, doubts are raised about the intended privatization will, outsourcing services to the third sector, and so on. We also think, we do think, we are aware that the transfer of personal and material means with it is just not all done. On the contrary, we know that we have a challenge ahead that is very big. But I say again that, beyond the operation of prisons, this transfer gives us the opportunity to think of another prison model here in Euskadi, and that is what we wanted to move or what we wanted to try to adopt in Parliament when we drafted our amendment. In this amendment we did accept the need for Parliament to present the government's plan in order to be able to make an assessment of it. And what we also wanted was for the agreements, the resolutions adopted in the monograph last year to be incorporated into the prison model, which was the result of the exercise of the functions transferred. This was our proposal. But we have achieved, we have reached a compromise amendment, yes, with the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party. We have achieved this transaction in which these basic needs are met. Firstly, that the plan be brought to Parliament. It is also said in the transactional we have signed, that "it will be once... "Exactly," he says, "after the transfer has been carried out." That is to say, we believe that it is immediately necessary to sustain the transfer, to reach agreement with the Spanish Government, immediately to bring the plan, the agreement, to this Parliament and, in addition, it is also acknowledged that the prison model developed as a result of this transfer will be based on the resolutions adopted in the monographic plenary of the previous year, and we also welcome a point in which it states that the plan will also include periodic monitoring and evaluation mechanisms that can be brought to this House, to the relevant committee, and we can assess and make our clarifications and assessments on it. That is to say, we believe that it welcomes the fundamentals of our claims and that is why I wanted to thank the two groups for this provision, which also allows us to reach a comprehensive agreement on a matter that I believe is fundamental in this country. Simplemente, me were thermal añadido una reflexion. Besides freedom, prison can't be a waste of rights. The difference must be diminished as much as possible between being prisoner and free. It is punishment to deprive them of freedom, and there can be no increase in suffering over it, neither to those who are imprisoned, nor to their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good noon, all of you. Today we are debating a motion on the transfer of material and human resources for the exercise of powers relating to the organization, regime and functioning of prison services. This is not the first time that an initiative on this subject has been brought to this plenary, but never by the Basque People's Group, in this case, alongside Citizens. The question from which this motion comes was formulated by Mr Gordillo around the way in which the aforementioned transfer will take place. The Councilwoman of Public Governance and Self-Government has already given a full answer and I am not going to repeat what she has already said, but I would like to highlight some issue and, above all, your confusion, Mr Gordillo, because you asked the Government about the form, but I really wanted information on the substance, even questioning the transfer itself. And in this motion corrects and promotes this House's debate and stance on, and I quote: "... in what conditions, in particular, it hopes to assume the transfer of personal and material means for the exercise of the powers relating to the organization, regime and operation of the prison services". Article 10.14 of the Statute of Gernika, adopted in 1979, provides for the competence of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country for the organization, administration and operation of institutions, prisons and social reintegration, as well as for the implementation of prison legislation. Article 12.1. There have been many circumstances – which I will not go in and value and mention now – that have prevented compliance with the provisions of the Statute of Gernika. It was necessary to wait for the change of government in Spain for the Joint Transfer Commission to meet and, after seven years and with a socialist government at the head, it was possible that by the end of 2018 it would be unblocked and that, finally, the Basque Government and the Spanish Government would establish a timetable to materialize the outstanding transfers, including the one relating to prisons. This manifest political will was not echoed in the past by the governments of the People's Party. And there are not 30 outstanding transfers, Mr Gordillo, there are 30 outstanding transfers, services that we can assume and others that are discarded. The governance agreement signed last September between my party, the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra, and the Basque Nationalist Party, which is reflected in the government program "Euskadi in progress 2020-2024", has as its fundamental pillar to expand and improve self-government in Euskadi. And we have both committed ourselves to working together with the Spanish Government to materialize the negotiations on pending competences, subjects and services that could be transferred, including the management of prisons, according to a schedule that has been necessary to update, due to the condition of the COVID-19 pandemic. And it is that the Basque Socialists defend the full implementation of the Statute. We advocate that the law be complied with everywhere, also with this law, which, moreover, is a pact between Basques and Basques with the rest of Spain. And it is, and must be, and must remain a useful tool for citizenship. It is not a question of injury, nor of seeing what competence I have, Mr Gordillo. It's law enforcement. You are concerned, and you have expressed this in your question, that you should never think of how a certain degree of competition on the part of administrations will be best exercised more efficiently. And, look, I'm going to tell you something, and it's that most Basque society has that very clear. The 2018 Euskobarometer included questions regarding the opinion of Basque society on the transfer of prisons. And a large majority sees it as positive, and the argument for this is confidence in the greater effectiveness of autonomous management. In your inquiry you referred to what had already been done so far to define a prison model of your own in Euskadi. And I think he did it in passing or taking it away from it. He mentioned it again today. And, look, I am convinced that in order to better exercise competence when such a transfer is received, it is necessary, crucial, to have a prison model with strategic lines, as well as good planning, which allows decisions to be made on material and personal property. The principles or lines that articulate this prison model must be based on the will shown by the Basque political community throughout its recent history. On 7 November 2003, a non-law proposal was passed by a large majority in this House, calling for a resocializing vision of the prison system. And the last has been the motions for resolutions that came out of the monographic plenary on 13 March 2019 and that have also been mentioned. In addition, in the last parliamentary term, with the then Deputy Councillor of Justice, and now a bench companion, the socialist Miren Gallástegui, at the front, made a definite diagnosis of what was the reality of our prisons, what their needs were and what model we wanted to put in place with the new tools that we were going to have at our disposal. This was done with the invaluable assistance of experts in the field. It is important to know not only what is to be received, but what is to be wanted, what is to be done and what is to be done for the competition. And to complete a model of comprehensive prison management, which works for the social reintegration of persons convicted of any crime, and that those who have failed to comply with the rules, if they have been deprived of their liberty and serve their sentence in this community, assume their responsibility and the damage caused. For more than 17 years, therefore, Basque society has been calling for a clear humanitarian orientation of criminal and prison policy. In the field of personnel and materials, this transfer takes place in the personnel of prison institutions, which will be integrated into the structure of the administration of the Basque Autonomous Community and the real estate concerned. It says, Mr Gordillo, that the transfer will triple the prison population and that officials will have a significant workload or that officials will be left to manage the paperwork. What are we left with, Mr. Gordillo? Or are they going to have a lot of work, or are they just going to manage the paperwork? As already stated by the Sailburu Garamendi, as provided for in the second transitional provision of the Gernika Statute, all acquired rights of any order and nature which, at the time of the transfer, the personnel attached to the State services or other public institutions subject to the transfer shall be respected. And I would like to highlight the commitment of these officials, and how they have turned to ensuring that those who have committed crimes meet the sentences imposed on them by the courts and tribunals and can be reinstated. Extraordinary work that they have had to develop in a situation of contempt and harassment and risking their lives. A special memory and recognition for the officials who were the victims of kidnapping and murder. And it is that the framework of action, once the competence is assumed, is formed by the General Organic Prison Law, the Prison Regulation and the Royal Decree 1.436/1984 of 20 June. The latter regulates the rules for the coordination of the activity and management of prison administrations, both with regard to the availability of places for certain prisoners, information on income, transfers, classification, permits and other data that affect the prison situation of inmates of establishments that they manage within their territory. And this, article 3 of this Royal Decree states that the Directorate General of Prison Institutions and the prison administration of each autonomous community will jointly determine the optimal and maximum places for serving sentences that are transferred. Mr. Gordillo, there's no improvisation, there's no opacity. You know what you're gonna get. And it is that the process of transfers, as far as its content is concerned, is completely transparent and is perfectly protocolized. But as important as that, as knowing what you will receive, is knowing what you want or have to do with what you receive. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u41	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Eubertarians, Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chiefs and congressmen. Mr Gordillo, honestly, I do not understand what you mean by this motion a few days before you have called the Salburu Garamendi into this House about the transfer of prisons. At that time, his request was fulfilled and perfectly answered, and on that line he will follow and must follow my intervention, because the whole process of transfer of competence in the field of prison services was profusely explained by the Sailburu. I must start with something indisputable: the clear political commitment of this Government and of this group to fully comply with the Statute of Gernika and achieve self-government in all matters pending transfer. Something you cannot say, because you have given us ample evidence of your refusal to comply with an organic law such as the Statute of Gernika. As I bring this matter back to the House, I will remind you that in October your colleagues in the People's Party in Congress called for the non-transfer of prison competition to Euskadi. They defended the violation of the law, denying the Statute and denying Euskadi to assume the remaining powers. And there he'll always have us in front of him. By the way, they called for the non-transfer of a competition that was included in the so-called Zubia Report that the PP approved in this Basque Parliament in 1993. We are very clear, we always say the same thing, when there is no election in Madrid and Madrid, and we are not tired of demanding what is legally claimed, and we are not weary of working for all the rights that the State reveals to us. Currently, up to 32 subjects are pending transfer. Fortunately, we have a timetable and the commitment of two governments to move forward in its implementation. And within the first package of competencies is where the management of prisons is located. A negotiating process is currently under way, a bilateral negotiation in which efforts are being made to achieve the objective of an agreement on the services and functions to be assumed by our prison administration. The legal framework in which we work is clear: the reference always the Statute of Gernika, where it is provided for the establishment of a Joint Transfer Commission to work out the consensus that will lead us to exercise our powers in the best way and under the best conditions. For this entire transfer process, we have a comprehensive regulatory framework that supports the change of ownership of this and other competencies and that should guide the text of the agreement. Agreement in which, as I have already told you, technical meetings and working groups are being held between two administrations, that of the State and our Administration, within the said Joint Commission on Transfers. And in which you will contemplate what you know perfectly well: the transfer of the functions of management, organization and administrative and economic management of the prisons located in our autonomous community, and will also take up issues such as obligations and contracts related to the subject matter, the inventory of goods or the personnel assigned to the service. We do not speak, as you intentionally do, to entangle and confuse prison policy. We are talking about management, a close management that will make it possible to improve the functioning of prisons and the resocialization of prisoners. An agreement which we urge, in the conviction that it was something already assumed, the Government to be referred to this House. Our government is firmly leading the pursuit of full self-government, as well as the defence of the already achieved, because this means achieving and guaranteeing greater well-being for Basque citizens. And, as good managers, we will bring this purpose to fruition with the materialization of the outstanding transfers. Among them, the one that today brings us the management of prisons with complete legal certainty and with the best technical conditions. That's what's relevant. We are faced with a complex subject, with many edges, and the important thing is to keep working, not to rest. And be assured that this Government and its advisors and advisers will not stop until they achieve all the competences that by law belong to us, even if for you I am a dark and shady executive. They speak, and in particular you, in your last speeches, of an exhausted government, of opaque management and of improvisation. Obviously, that is not the reality that we live in this country, if not its desires. We have a government with solid principles and clear commitments to its citizens, among other things, in self-government, and to assume all the competences that have so far been in the hands of the Spanish State and that must be managed, in the broadest sense, by our institutions. We have a government with sufficient momentum and strength to carry out both the task of transferring outstanding issues and the effective and efficient management of those issues. Close management in all areas that undoubtedly benefit citizens. And we have a government that does, and it also has a large majority in this House, but that, however, from it, is always committed and we are committed to achieving broad consensus. And on the question of the transfer of powers in the management and operation of the prisons located in Euskadi, you want and intend to launch an invitation to the flotation line of the negotiations being carried out, to the work carried out in the Joint Transfer Commission. He was interested, first, in attacking the negotiating process within the Commission and questioning the work carried out at the technical meetings that were being held, with a planned timetable and at a time of fluid relations between the two parties, the Basque Government and the Spanish Government, in order to conclude with those meetings and to define technically each and every detail of the transfer. And in their position, they have a clear purpose: to prevent any agreement being reached between the two governments regarding the exercise of the competences which belong to them. Because his policy, that of his party, follows the line opposed to that of self-government. It has no interest in the fulfilment of what was agreed and adopted more than 40 years ago in the Statute of Gernika. I suppose it will then be your turn, or that of your group, to try or question the model that is adopted to execute such competition. The Council for Equality, Justice and Social Policy will have the competence to develop the new public policy on the organisation, regime and functioning of prison services. And the motions for resolutions that emerged, and were adopted in the monographic plenary on 13 March 2019, will be the basis for defining the prison model to be implemented in Euskadi. And, indeed, before this Parliament, it will also be transparent and clear in the measures and planning to carry out this model. Today, the commitments we have signed are solid and do not weaken, there is a willingness to negotiate and there is a willingness to agree. And, above all, Mr Gordillo, have no doubt, so far other transfers have materialized. In the past legislature, transfers were made in several areas: roads, railway lines..., which are currently being managed impeccably by our Basque administration. And now arduous but effective work is being done to complete other transfers, such as the management of prison facilities. And when such an agreement is reached, its management, operation, the organization of goods, services, contracts, obligations in relation to prisons, it will be organized with a model of public policy that, in addition to based on the proposals resulting from the full monograph of the last legislature, will follow the key axes marked by our government: people, coexistence, self-government and human rights. And all this, Mr Gordillo, with transparency and clarity. Excuse me. At the end of the round of speeches, this round of speeches, I would like to ask for a recess so that I can finish signing and subscribing, and, well, some of the remaining fringes, to the compromise amendment to which Mrs Gorrotxategi has referred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. The next round of the band that hasn't issued any correction, Miss Mist, Mrs Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. In Vox, as the PNV lady has said, we are also clear and say the same thing all the time, here and in Madrid. What is very clear to us is that the drunken power of the PNV makes them ask for the transfer of prisons when the infamous Marlaska has already brought almost all ETA prisoners to Euskadi. Having said that, today's proposal also requires a small analysis of what is at stake, beyond Mr Gordillo's request, which, of course, is very correct, because all I have heard is that it calls for clarity. An analysis that is fundamental to understanding the depth of the matter. I would like to inform the proposer that we will vote yes. And we will because, although we believe that it is a serious mistake to transfer prisons, we believe it is at least relevant to know the data and what is being perged. Mr Urkullu, PNV, has done, of necessity virtue and, together with his partner Sánchez, have decided to throw away the memory and dignity of the victims. There is a tendency to talk about the battle of the story, but it is not fair to talk in terms of two stories faced. It's not. Indeed, there are families who must travel hours to see the murderers, but that is incomparable with the walk to the cemetery to see a loved one who was judged and murdered, with the welcome of people who are sitting here today in this Parliament. And it is that the Basque prison strategy has two aspects: the one that is being debated today, the transfer of prisons by the PNV, and that of the approach of prisoners, which is what Bildu has requested. They're two sides of the same coin. The first moment, Bildu's, is already underway. He was recognized in a previous appearance by Mr. Egibar, who said "five to one", quite rightly. The prisoners at home. And then, so that you can understand the two parties, the prison permits, the freedom, the infamy of having to walk the killers through the streets of our cities. We have the Hitzeman program there. I read it carefully last night before I came here. In addition, it is public for everyone; everyone can access it. And besides, in it it turns black on white what I am saying: the bet of oblivion in the face of justice. Do you know how many times the word "repentance" is mentioned in the prison program? None. There is talk of self-critical reflection, an euphemistic expression that is not, by asomo, synonymous with repentance. These policies will be legal, but they have no legitimacy, and they will never, if as often as they do, take human rights as a moral reference, rights whose application is more remarkable to some than to others. In short, hypocrisy with, at times, the satisfaction of the socialists. I will only ask you one question: Have you put yourself in the skin of a victim who has lost his father or his son? Have you thought for a moment how they would feel if they told them they had to live together and socialize with the killer? Gentlemen of the government, you will have us in front of you. We will not fail to denounce this situation and to pursue every case, one by one. We will not stop working in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u45	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Arzuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Let them come back to the subject. We were very interested to hear Mr. Gordillo's interpenetration, and I received the motion with great interest, hoping that perhaps he would explain some things to me. I didn't know very well whether Mr. Gordillo was concerned with the transfer management of the transfer, today, was concerned about the U.S. Committee's agreement, or, once transfered, the prison model that EAE will be designed in the development of that jurisdiction. So there was a sort of concern between form and convalescence. I was also curious to know who it was to direct, for when it was done, the interrogation was not very clear, either to the nature of the transfer to Mrs. Garamount or to Artolanolly, to what purpose it would be if it had once been possible to use it. And that's not clear to me either, because it's a request that's been given to the Red Munche in general. And in the end, the substance, I didn't know what the contribution was or what it was. And I see, in a certain sense, that this motive is made by a subreception of information, or that it could be solved somehow by a declaration request, if you have such an interest in explaining what the event is or what it is to-day. So I didn't know exactly what this initiation was about. I thought maybe Mrs. Garabor would be right, and maybe Mr. Gordillo, you'd come here somehow to reveal your position, wouldn't you? You want to mix this up. You want to create doubts. You doubt what is the right of this jurisdiction, and ask yourself whether it is necessary. Who knows if we can handle it better or not. And for that, you bring in the uneasiness, impatience, and impatience of some of the police officers, who give way to their corporate proclamations. Is it logical that there is some kind of anxiety in these sectors, "kqué hay de lo mío?" "I don't know. And it is also logical that they do not wish to change anything from them, or that they may be opposed to it by new standards. But I think there is an experience, that there is an experience of the prisoner's ability to improve the conditions of their lives. There's an experience from the family to run a more human prison. From time to time we find ourselves in a drama. There have been six dead dead in 20 years, and I think that even the people want to tear this tragedy apart. In the third sector, professional operators, legal professionals, medical professionals, professionals, professionals in social services have an experience with the arrival of this jurisdiction, that things will get better. And that's also the position of EH Collect. The monograph, which was held in March 2019, has been mentioned on more than one occasion. Some of the issues that were discussed and resolved, the resolutions that were adopted, have been brought forward. And I want to put on the table a position brought by the PP then, the first motion for a resolution – which was not adopted, of course – and they said: "It is up to the Government of Spain and the Basque Government, within the Joint Commission on Transfers, to agree on the transfer of powers relating to prison services". Right. He adds: "When the appropriate social conditions are given that do not yet exist in our autonomous community." I ask you, Mr Gordillo, to ratify these words that Nerea Llanos defended two years ago in this very rostrum. For you two years ago there were no conditions for bringing this competition to the Basque Autonomous Community, and today you have the opportunity to say whether you believe that yes, that yes, two years later today, there are these conditions, and then I will say to you: for we are going to take advantage of them. Or it can be ratified that we do not yet have these conditions, in which you still interpret that this people is not a majority to exercise prison jurisdiction, to complete the Statute, and perhaps not to decide their future in this case in the area of prison enforcement and criminal enforcement. Because, if you do not, we will have the feeling that, in fact, you have come with this initiative to stir, to entangle, to sow doubt and to put sticks on the wheels. That's why we decided not to make any corrections because we didn't want to get involved in that game. We're exitators with the management of this jurisdiction. After transfering, we're ambitious, it's true, because we have spectivities. We independentists think that we must also take the system of punishment in our hands, and that we must govern it; we cannot leave it to the full extent of power. It's not the most comfortable sector, it's not a good area that brings good news, dramas and tragedies, but we want to look into the eyes of the prisoner's reality, and we want to create and build a prisoner's watch system while they're in prison, and even when they get out of jail, we want to give a decent, dignified future to prisoners. We are concerned about the state of prisoners, the state of all prisoners, all prisoners of euscal origin, prisoners in a prison at the opposite end of the state. Every one has a right to be here, in their social surroundings, in their own family, all have a right to benefit from it. I have mentioned, and I ratify, that we will be demanding. That we have important expectations about the alternative management of prison policy. That we are ambitious in respecting the rights of prisoners. And it is true that by reviewing some of the resolutions adopted in that monographic plenary, more could have been done. And in some of the resolutions, and perhaps in the second round I will express some, work could have been advanced. You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, like... you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, like, like, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, We've done homework because we fired a report two years ago: A hundred measures to control the jurisdiction of EAE prison. A hundred measures. They took fifty-five decisions in this monographicograph, and I want to put them in value. But there is still a great deal to be done, as I say, before I have the right to do it, and not, if I have any right to it. We are willing to help ourselves to raise this right, and to design it properly, and to manage it in a proper manner later on. We won't put a stick on wheels at all. "EH Bilt won't put his finger in anyone's eyes." For the sake of all the beneficents of this right, especially those prisoners who had never been able to recover freedom from prison, especially those who had never returned from visit to prison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u47	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. A pause has been requested, a pause, a pause to close the middle, to close it properly. And, well, when you close, we'll keep going. Just like that. The meeting stopped at twelve-eight in the morning.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u48	We'll do it again. We're going over to the answering shift. Mr. Gordillo, representing Partado Popular-Ciudadanos. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u49	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, after this recess, we continue the debate. Let me tell you, don't you?, since, most groups use the dialectical technique of giving lessons to the opponent, right?, who is very well. Well, let's remember one. I want to share with you a university anecdote. Look, sometimes – especially in law, since most of the speakers are jurists – at the University, when you sometimes ask a question in law and the student has no idea, because, man, logically, you don't leave it blank, then you invent an answer. It's what's technically known as an invention. It's a way out of the way, telling you something that may or may not have anything to do with what's being discussed, but, well, it's an invention, to see if it hangs. And the truth is, I am sad about the subject of the debate. I mean, I knew the positions of the different groups more or less, I knew them more or less. I am delighted to have a debate on all the issues that have come out here today. I am delighted to have a debate on the issue of prison policy. I am delighted to have a debate on the issue of social reintegration. I am delighted to have a debate on the competition issue. I am delighted to have a debate about which government can best manage a reintegration or manage.... I'm perfectly delighted. Really. If you're looking for someone to refuse the debate, don't ask for me. Really. What happens is that that was not the debate today, that was not the debate today. The debate... I'm sorry... Let me read them very briefly. In justification... You, Mrs Gorrotxategi, have said: "No, it is that in the... we speak in the proposal..." In the proposal we do not talk about privatization. Yes, I said that here in the rostrum, but the proposal does not talk about it. The only thing that is said in the proposal is that the Government has said that it has a draft agreement with the central Government for the transfer of competition. This transfer is said to be of significant technical and administrative complexity. I think up to here we could agree. And that is why I am simply going to tell you what is going to be voted on later: "The plenary of the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to inform the parliamentary groups in this House within 20 days of the conditions under which it expects to take over." That's what you're going to vote for. Of course, then each one has come to talk about his book, which is very good. In addition, they are trying to get me to talk about the debates as well. Nice to meet you. But, man, another time. Today the debate, in fact, ladies and gentlemen, was to highlight and, above all, strengthen the institutional position of this Parliament. That was the debate. And I was delighted to join the others, but the debate today was that. Podemos' proposal, because in the end it has gone with the Government and has agreed with the Government. Indeed, with this, you will have a small parliamentary victory, because you bring forward a compromise. Okay. I understand that he does it because he thinks for sure from his heart that he does, that he is very well, that he is the best and so on. But, well, you have already agreed on budgetary matters with this government on other occasions. On the subject of the Bureau, you will see what awaits you. Mrs. Gorrotxategi, I'll just let you know. And above all, it seems to me that we are fleeing the real debate here today. But well, listen, there you go, everyone who talks about his book. And then this will not be a debate. We will each come here to read our papers simply and there will be no real debate. Because that was the debate. The subject of Mrs. San José. Well, yes, the truth that I liked your intervention very much. The truth is, you read it a little fast, the only thing. There are things I didn't get right. But she's done so much better than the counselor did the other day. From a parliamentary dialectical point of view, I believe that you have done so much better. He's got arguments. Most fallaces and so on, but he's done well. The woman has worked hard and done well. And we could get into that debate, but another day. You were talking about my interpellation. Today it was simply to see if it was appropriate for the Government to send us information. And in the case of Mrs. Borinaga, who, less badly, she read a little slower, and I was able to take almost everything she said, because yes, she was talking about tangle, confuse, embarrass, I don't know what and what. Listen, I'm just asking the government to pass the information on to us, just like that. And then, from there, I honestly say, I'm willing to discuss anything, anything. Sure, then the group... Mr Arzuaga, also a lawyer, I love that you criticize me and accuse me of everything you want. I'm wearing it like a medal every single one of your charges, and also a sign that I'm gonna be doing something right. I love being taught here about human rights and so on. A group like yours that has not yet condemned the age-old violence. Yet. Joé, you haven't condemned her yet. Most of the groups in this House have validated this subject. Not us. We're still waiting for them to do that, too. But, I insist, that was not the debate either, that was not the debate. The debate was that this Parliament must exercise the role of control over the government and must demand such information. And the other way around is to be embarrassed and go on other routes. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u50	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together, Poedemus-Eternate of the Union, Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u51	The lady's head. Yeah. Well, in my speech I said that we really formally supported the debate that was being proposed, and it was to bring to this House the debate or the assessment of the plan for the transfer of jurisdiction in prison matters. But...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u52	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u53	I say I said I shared the starting point. But it is true, and we have to recognise, that this proposal does not dance on nothing, but is supported or supported by a previous ideological budget, which has also been transmitted in the intervention, not only today, but also in the interpellation. I mean, he doesn't fly alone, but he has a very concrete livelihood. And on the basis of that support, it is for this reason that we have considered it necessary to introduce another type of assessment and to present an amendment which, in addition to taking up the proposal to bring the debate to Parliament, would also require the model to be based on those resolutions adopted in last year's monographic plenary. Because, certainly, there are many people who consider that prisoners are a human subspecies that does not deserve dignity, that does not deserve recognition and does not deserve dignity. Deprivation of liberty is a penalty. It's a severe penalty, it's a severe penalty. The gravest and hardest one in the legal system. What the institutions have to ensure is that humanity, dignity, is not lost in the treatment of such persons and that no more suffering is exercised than that which is strictly accompanied by punishment, neither for such persons nor for their families. And this is only done through a prison model, which is what we want to focus on, because on the occasion that the very fact of the transfer gives us. And without further ado, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists represent the team, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u55	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. As I said earlier, the Basque Socialist Group, as it has been defending in this House in a repeated way – others cannot say the same – believes that it is very good news that the channels of dialogue between the two administrations are normalised in order to continue the successful path that began in Euskadi 40 years ago, and that the envisaged channel, which is no other than the Joint Transfer Commission, is used to resolve those technical issues that make possible this transfer of the competence of prisons and institutions. Our Statute is clear in that regard, and it is therefore regrettable that this transfer has been questioned and continued to be questioned and that it has been intended to make interpretations totally alien to the literality of our Statute of Autonomy. Mrs. Martínez, I was talking about the infamous Mr. Marlasca, Minister Marlasca. Infamous are his words. Infamous is the debate that you intend to bring here today. This is Mr. Gordillo talking about invented or talking about his book. You've come here to talk about your book. Talk about what you talk about, you always bring up the same subject. And well, I have to say that the Basque Socialists are in favour of the rapprochement of prisoners that is being pushed by the government of Pedro Sánchez, to comply with the law in order to seek that those who have attacked society want to meet again with that society assuming their error. Socialists believe that the rapprochement of prisoners enables prisoners to know that Euskadi is the opposite of what they wanted to impose, and that will help them to understand their great personal, political and ethical failure. The Councillor for Public Governance and Self-Government, Mrs Garamendi, has carefully derailed, Mr Gordillo, the regulatory framework governing how to proceed in dealing with the transfer of a competition, as well as the contents to be expressed in the text of the agreement that could be drawn up and signed after the agreement between the parties has been reached. It is now being negotiated and the Sailburu comprehensively detailed all the steps being taken. A transfer is a very serious thing and it affects not only society as a whole, but also many people at work, so it must be done with care, responsibility and not generate any anxiety or alarm in the affected group. In the material and personnel field, it is a question of transferring staff from prison institutions to be integrated into the structure of the administration of the Basque Community and the real estate concerned. With regard to staff, now staff members under the State Administration and those under the Autonomous Administration are working in a coordinated manner. Because it must be remembered that this has been the case since 2011, when a government, then socialist in Euskadi and socialist in the state, consolidated a model of coordinated management in health, education, work guidance, reintegration and sentence management that favors this objective. We are not going from zero in this transfer, as we have successful experiences developed from the competences assumed so far. Our juvenile justice system, even with the marked differences between one system and another, is a reference. On the other hand, the agreement signed in 2011 between then Councilwoman Idoia Mendia and the Secretary of Prison Institutions Mercedes Gallizo has allowed us to be the only autonomous community, apart from Catalonia, that manages all sentences and measures in an open environment or alternatives to imprisonment, jobs for the benefit of the community, suspensions of sentences and security measures. To this end, the Basque Penis Management Service was created, which was expanded in the previous legislature from 25 to 40 people, which has provided us with a clear idea of what we can and should do to succeed in the goal of getting Euskadi to reduce its prison population and improve these recidivism ratios. This service is strongly committed to reintegration with multidisciplinary teams that ensure the execution of sentences in an open environment. Mr Gordillo, as you see, over the past few years, we have done our homework and we have been preparing to receive that transfer. For all that, we are going to vote for the compromise amendment that we have reached with the Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita group. Thank you very much for the effort, for trying to approach positions. And well, that's all, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u56	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Eubertarians, Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u57	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Gordillo, we're not talking about our book, nor are we inventing an answer to a question we don't know about. I understand that you do not believe in the Statute and that your political action is aimed at curbing the transfer of powers and at pretending that others will give up pushing and developing, and not developing an agreed timetable. They call for non-compliance with the Statute and, which is the same, call for non-compliance with the law and do so consciously. But, however, we – as I told you – are always going to be there in front of us. Because we do firmly believe in self-government, that self-government means well-being to our citizens, and achieve it fully, demanding the remaining competences and achieving their transfer. They will always be the basic pillars of this Government. And it's about that principle you're working on. To one end: to ensure that the commitments made and undertaken to complete the self-government recognized in the Statute of Gernika are fulfilled. With one form: do it in a transparent, clear and orderly way. And with some means: following a timetable of negotiations on these transfers that has been set with the other party, which is, in this case, the Spanish Government. I believe, Mr Gordillo, that it is something clear and that here there is no obscurantism or anything like it. You, frankly, have spoken to him before, I do not think he is asking for management or for negotiation in the transfer of powers. You are attacking these negotiations with obscurantism and improvisation, which is the work of two teams: that of the working group of the Basque Government and that of the Spanish Government. And that requires loyalty, responsibility and seriousness. The same loyalty and responsibility, with which and by which, at the appropriate time, the outcome of such negotiations and work, of such technical meetings, the agreement reached in the Joint Transfer Committee will be forwarded to this House for its knowledge. And precisely with that same responsibility and seriousness, it is with which the management of the acquired competence will be carried out, always seeking, as I have said, the proper functioning of the prisons and the reintegration of the prisoners. And it will be done by means of a model that will be based, precisely, on the motions for resolutions that have emerged from this House, on a monographic plenary that took place in the last parliamentary term, which will also be presented to this House and on which there will be the facility for follow-up, as agreed in the compromise amendment that we have reached with Elkarrekin Podemos. And this is the moment when I take the opportunity to thank both Mrs Gorrotxategi and Mrs San José for being able to reach this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Mist teams, over there. It's your word, Mrs Martínnez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u59	Yeah. It's worth it. Madam of the PSE, tell him, when he has time, to reflect and define the word "self-critical reflection". I would also add that the programme Hitzeman, which I mentioned earlier, is read and that the word "repentance" appears. On the other hand, Mrs Gorrotxategi, imprisonment is for a serious offence. ETA members who are sentenced to imprisonment are guilty of or accomplices to murder. Let's not forget that. And, of course, they must serve the full sentences, something that is not being done. So don't talk to us about human rights in this case.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u60	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. And, finally, the representative of EH Collector, Mr. Azuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u61	Mr Gordillo, it was difficult to bring up the issue of prison competition and to think that we were going to end up talking about transparency. It may be shielded, perhaps, by some naivety, but it is that you too have entered the issue. You've talked about prison competition. And, in addition, you have given data that are incorrect, because there is room in the Basque prisons, that you say they have capacity for 1,400 inmates in closed regime and that today is half capacity. And, analyzing a response that the Spanish government gave to Jon Iñarritu in February 2020, we estimate that there are 686 prisoners of residence in the three Basque provinces that are in state prisons. And you estimate it at 2,000, but it's not true. It's 686. You can fluctuate one up, one down. Moreover, it should be borne in mind that it is the prisoners who are in the Basque prisons who would have the right to be taken to the prisons of family or social roots in other parts of the State. There's no overload, there's no lack of capacity. What there is is an excess of catastrophe on your part. And it comes into the issue when you make a firm defense of the corporate demands of officials, which I understand are in a moment of anxiety about the change that is going to happen, and when you, in addition, face the third sector that provides a quality professional service, which is the best we have today on what to build another prison model. Because you say that certain services tend to be privatized, when in a motion for a resolution of that monographic debate, number 8, presented by the PP, you put it in value two years ago, requesting that a social participation table be set up, with the integration of the third sector working in the prison population. And today, Mr. Gordillo, maybe we all know what you're defending or maybe not. But we are going to leave here without knowing whether you maintain that position that Mrs Llanos had in that monograph two years ago, that is, when she said that the conditions were not given to bring prison competition to this country. And I would like to know what your opinion is on this, because you demand transparency, but it is going to happen that, in the end, the one who is not doing a transparency exercise and really explaining what his position is, today, is going to be his group. Ikussi had zine in the testicle, ekartzen in the transakzio beat bitartez. They impose a small ploy on us in the first paragraph: "(...) that we continue with the policy of transparency". There'd be a lot to talk about. But we agree that the final agreement of this negotiation, of the transfer, must be forwarded to the House. I agree to highlight the full monograph of 3 March 2019, and to discuss, in the appropriate committee, the model or plan to be brought about in this regard. I said earlier that progress could have been made, Mrs Artolazabal, some things could have been done on those recommendations, resolutions that were adopted a couple of years ago, because they were talking about specific therapeutic, psychological and psychiatric treatment programmes. And I do not know if they have been achieved, because we were talking about creating a coordinating body through which to seek the success of the execution of penalties and measures, involving the departments of Health, Education, Employment, Social Policy and Security. I don't think it's done. Because you could have made some progress in resolution 13, "Working with the professional colleges of lawyers and lawyers..." I don't think you've contacted them. "Design a work plan to incorporate respect for the diversity of gender, capacities, culture, language, and the functioning of prisons." Importantly, we ask the Department of Justice to carry out without further delay, that is, that it should already be done, an assessment on the specific situation of women in prisons; to provide entities in the third sector with economic resources; to strengthen access routes for vocational training or university degrees. It is also important to develop an organizational analysis to adequately size the workforce, in order to establish an appropriate ratio between officials and prisoners. Well, it's something they might have already done and I'm afraid they don't. However, I will not continue to mention what was left behind, let's look forward. But they will allow me to conclude by making a mention and highlighting the eighth resolution of that full monograph, which literally says: "The Basque Parliament calls for the rapprochement of all the prisoners and all the prisoners with roots in Euskadi to the prisons of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi". We must continue to work, broadening the support for this resolution, which we now all who are going to sign up to this transaction put into value. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u62	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Five point in theme list: "Just as much as I made the parlamental team, I'd like to make sure I had some special funds for the town town. To discuss and to decide once and for all." This is the turn of the proposed team, Mr. Iriart, representing the EH Collect Group, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u63	Thank you. Good afternoon, Congressmen, head of Parliament. The delegates from the council, thank you and thank you for the midday. Today, by this legal proposal, we're here to ask for municipal finances, and we'd have the purpose of strengthening the councils. And for all they've done and all the work they've done. And why not consider the future in order to strengthen their roles? In fact, in the case of the European funds, these will be the principal means of investments for the next few years. And in this sense we come to proclaim that we ought also to consider the councils, and that they ought to have their space, or to ask for it. It is impossible to deny that the municipal institutions are the closest to the people; And the councils, at the same time and for that reason, are informed of the privileges of the community and of the society, and are in the first line. And not to mention the role they played in the Tusnamic called Covid, which came to us in 2020. They're in the front row, but they're the weakest institution. And they're in the front line, but they're looking at the funding. 10% of the total funding doesn't reach the councils. And they're in the front row, but they're not qualified to fund. And therefore they are the Institutions that make every one the most profitable. This other proposition, which, in spite of its acridity, has come here today, and for the past few weeks has been taken care of for a couple of volus or a few media. I'm talking about the Confederation Act and the Foru Funsset. And I'd like to take advantage of them to make a few quotations or a couple of quotations. The Confederation Act. In the preceding few weeks the chief physician mentioned the proposal of repeating this or making a new law, while the chief of the powers of vice, Mr. Rementeria, should be careful not to touch it. Here's the usual, everyone wants to protect their homes. But the last calculation in 2007 was made, and we must say that for a long time past it has changed much, and that it has made much rain. In between, two fits of crisis. And in 2008, we'll all know what a lot of townhouses are doing with the housing. If, then, it is important to see this Confederate Law again, that the townships should provide their proper place, and place the councils in the centre. After all, from the New Confederation Law, the councils must be reinforced and strengthened. And, on the other hand, I'd like to have a little thought about the Foru Funds. In the end, the settlement has been 537 million dollars better than the short-predictions, and it has been decided not to divide this money if the circumstances take place. The situation is very serious, many of the townships have made a great deal of expense in 2020 to prevent the situation of Covid and the American and economic agents in the country. So this money shouldn't remain unscrewed. And that's why we've agreed with Podemos, where we ask the minimum of Foru Funds to be the same as last year, and that's why they'll put the means in order to prevent the local corporations from devoluting this contribution. And why? At the time of the Covid, as I have said, because the councils have made this reply quickly, because they have been independent and have been close to their own people to offer that protection. This proposal of the other law today has four accounts. It is clear that the creation of a Cvid fund requires the intervention of the 30% of the funds from Europe to the management of these European sources of space which will consider the diversity of the townships, and the evolution of the evolution of the Foru Fundsa. In a sense, these are the requests. And what are the reasons? Well, there are many of you who have been to the council, or who have been there, we can see clearly. The townships have not their own developments, and their own means, in order to make their own development. Almost all expenses are connected, whether they are personal expenses or ordinary expenses, and this connects them. In that sense, many of the means that came, were divided according to the criteria prescribed by the Fund Foru, and the councils are nothing but transmisors. And that's why the townhouses have often used city training as a tool for strengthening their financial lines. And that's what led us to believe, in many townhouses, that the housing has not even been adapted to the wants of the citizens, or that the housing parks which the citizens needed have not been created, but that the housing policy has been seen as additional financially as the housing policy. In many towns, it's seen as a machine for making money for the town hall. Why? Because they didn't have their own means of financial space or development. Which brings consequences. He's brought the consequences, and that's how there's a lot of old-fashioned differences, or a lot of working neighborhoods in the '60s, or a lot of new sub-varieties, completely degraded. That's what caused the housing policy to be property and not rental. That's what brought it, that lack of financing has brought the municipal finances of the population back to the public, and consequently that the price of the housing is extremely expensive. After all, the citizens have kept or kept the need of the municipal finances. Therefore, though all this be so, yet at the first point of this legal proposition, we demand the foundation of resisting the expense of Covid. And we're asking why? Because councils have proved that they've been there even in the toughest situation. Because municipal students, computers, when they needed access to the Internet, have been there since the first day. Because they've proved social services to increase, and AES support. They proved that when the dining-room service was interrupted, they must have had the ability to provide food for all those children and young men. Because they've proved merchants, hosts, autonomists trying to help. They have proved it by adjusting the rates: the ruins of the city, the terraces, etc. They've started shopping bombings. They have taken a thousand initiations on themselves, and they do not belong to each other. They didn't seem to know much about it, but they were there. That's where they came from. Why? Because the City Halls see the wants of the people by the first hand, because they knew them and answered them. This foundation, then, has meaning, and in some measure there is a moral obligation for all that work they have done. And I'd like to talk about another matter, which can't be paid by money, and that's connected to the custody teams. In this country, Covid has shown us the capacity of a people organized, and the strength which these collective watch-houses have dedicated to the town halls, and which they have dedicated to the peoples. For this reason the people have kept each other, and this is a thing that cannot be paid. And I'd like to take advantage of this, all the young people in general, but especially because young people participated in these nets to thank them for their work. The young have often been criminalized in this pandemia, and we have not done the credit and gratitude to them for taking part in these communal networks. And thank you all very much. This, then, is the first point; this proposition of the law, which the town has made, is intended to give a solution to this hole which has been created in their treasury. This first point, therefore, necessarily seeks to repair the near passage. And the second point, the second point of this other law, is to make means for reconstructing the future. As far as the European funds contributes, they must reach the townships. And they have proved that they have answered in the most variable circumstances. Now, in this opportunity of reviving the future, we must place the councils in the centre. And we plan on placing it in the middle, that the councils should be 30% of all funds. And why? If these funds need any use for modification and performance, and must be handled with transparency, this transparency must be developed through the above-made projects. The council, the mankom units, the wants of development, the ideas they have, the projects they have. Because this plurality in place is to be answered by these principles. If we want to be lieutenants, to be residents, because they have to read, know, and answer that reality on the basis. And this, which is as important as what he does, is not to be built on the thoughts of a few men in the offices of a private company. Or you can't develop it only on an interinjective white-black table on one side. A transparency must be the centrality of public politics. And we believe that if there has not been anything in the European funds, it is transparency. And therefore we proclaim this third point, where we mean the different natures of the townships, and the diversity of the townships, because there are councils of different political colours, and not only the capitals. We need to work on a space that will take care of all these Sensibilitys so that we can accomplish this management of European funds. And we've just said that the closest organizations are councils, and that they're centrals for citizens. And thus do they see in all the interrogations that have been committed: The institutions closest to the citizen are the town halls. We owe them, therefore, to give us this foundation, and we owe them the place of rebuilding the future, and to hear it. And when we hear it, the councils are very little heard, and when they are heard, only the capitals are heard, because the councils are outside the capitals, and they exist. And if the Gipus, Brickes, and Arba have anything, and in general the Basque people have something rich, it is land-flowers. And in order to maintain this territory, we must necessarily strengthen the nations and the provinces. For some of you will tell us that Eudel may be there. But it is curious that the two Vice Presidents of Eudel, that is, the mayors of Azpeitia and Irungo, have said that their voice has not been heard in the management of these funds. And I'd say that's the opinion of a lot of councils and a lot of people. So this subject of today, and this other law today, does not go from one point of view; it is a proposition made from a sensibility point of view. It seems to us that everyone we've been working on is aware that the councils are in financial concerns at 2020. You have to answer that. But at the time of building a new future, and the leading investments to which they are informed are to be supplied by European funds. We've got to lean on that land falcon. I'll bring a clear example of MUBI yesterday, the center of a future union, was opened up. The President was also present, and there was the chief of all the possible authorities. But it has sometimes been published, that at Toulouse, where and in our country, but once more, when it is built beyond the temporary stage, the last building to which it belongs is to belong is to the Donotian. These are the decisions made here for the last few years, the capitals are considered and not the town halls. And it would be a first step, therefore, to turn all that, just like that. Accordingly, directed to the nearest past, we create a foundation to account for all the contributions which the municipal councils have made in 2020, and to cover up those holes in their treasury. They didn't know that their competitions had been made, because the people were asking for it. And in this structure of the future, in this regeneration, as far as the Europeans are concerned, we demand that 30% should be left to them, or that they should arrive at them; and that which will come with them, to cultivate and execute with them the municipals. So I'd like to be accepted today. I have seen that the half-way or counter-proposies which have been introduced into other parties have not been given, but I believe that in this legislature it would be more likely to hear the reality of the councils more often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u64	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, representative of the Podemos Group, Mr. Soso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u65	Good morning. Firstly, thank the proposing group, in this case EH Bildu, for the initiative in raising a debate that for our group is fundamental, which is the position that the municipalities occupy in this regard or the municipal level in assuming responsibilities to respond to the situation of COVID and many more. And also, in the funding chain, what position does it hold, which, from our perspective, is basically that of shift payers, for a simple reason, because assuming most of the responsibilities in the response to the situation – which is known, of pandemic crisis and also economic crisis derived from it – the municipalities, the level closest to the citizenry, has been the one that has enjoyed the least resources. In this sense, let me also mention the early days of COVID, when uncertainty was the usual tonic, when masks were missing, hydroalcoholic gel, and citizenship was expected to be answers from its institutions. In this case, they resorted most peremptoryly to their municipalities, basically because they were the closest. And, in this sense, as the municipalities found themselves with absolutely overflowing social services, with civic centers having to be closed, with administrative offices teleworking... That is so, when the first reflections of the economic crisis began to echo at the foral level or at the autonomic level, we saw what the answer was, and this was basically to withdraw part of the municipal funding so that it would not affect – this fall, I mean, the collection – it would not affect the territorial level. And, for our part, we already made criticisms in this regard at the time, because we considered that leaving the first line of action without resources was a very serious mistake. We put it on the boards, we put it on the councils where we have representation and, finally, on the parties that support the Basque Government and also the outside governments. They didn't want to listen, they kept up their line, and it was underfunding at the local level. But this does not come from now, it is basically the financial system that is applied at the local level and it comes basically in part from the Soil Law of 98. In the end, as has now been mentioned, the resources of the municipalities are mainly based on the capital gains that derive from the actions at the real estate level, at the urban level, either through residential promotions or, where appropriate, public works. That situation has not been reversed and, indeed, good, because it seems that this conception remains in force with regard to what has to do with the development of our homes and also with what has to do with housing itself as a market good, unfortunately. And, in that sense, the municipalities have few capacities and tools to finance themselves beyond these avenues. We have also come across the texture of dealing with the distribution of European funds. And, well, the truth is that it would be, in the end, a long time to describe what we have experienced in relation to the processing of European funds. We had already had a full monograph in which resolutions could be put forward in this regard and, also, verbalize the criticisms regarding the system of establishment of the projects by the Basque Government deriving from Madrid. But we and we have not been the only ones who have criticized, in this regard, the actions of the Basque Government, but, as was already said, the Vice-Presidents of Eudel have already verbalized – in this case, a socialist mayor and a mayor of EH Bildu – the territorial imbalance that the projects that were proposed by the Basque Government with regard to different municipal realities, how they had affected projects linked to the territorial capitals and left aside many other medium and small municipalities, the lack of transparency in relation to the process of defining these projects, and also the scant role that a fundamental body had played in all this, as in this case Eudel is. In fact, I recall that in the committee in which the European funds were taken into account, it was stated that the day after that committee was to be held a Eudel assembly in which the European funds were to be discussed. Then there was no discussion, the next day at that assembly of these European funds, and in the light of the criticism of the vice-presidents of the body because it seems that they did not have that role that they should have had in the definition of the projects that they wanted or should have proposed to Madrid in the proposed amendment. And in this regard, we believe that there needs to be a review by the parties that support the Government and raise more resources at the municipal level, because, as I said in my first part of the intervention, it is essential that they have the necessary resources in view of the fact that they are the first in the line of action against COVID and the impact it has had. And for my part nothing more, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u66	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u67	Thank you very much, President. I would thank the members of the Government, but there are none. And to you, ladies and gentlemen, and also to the proposing groups, for bringing in a debate that I consider of interest. It seems to me that it is a debate that is important in addition to being held in this House and I think it is a debate that is also very topical and, above all, a debate from which citizens and public authorities can benefit from the different ideas that we contrast here today. The proposal essentially, which has changed a little after the transaction, as regards the creation of an extraordinary fund to deal with the additional burdens that the municipalities, which, it must be acknowledged, are the administration closest to the citizen and it is often the administration to which, by default, the citizens come first, can effectively deal with needs as new ones have actually arisen. This request for the creation of a fund is accompanied by a number of issues, including reforms of the Administration itself, digitization, which is also of great interest, and it is also accompanied by two issues. One relating to the reserve, that a reserve of 30% of the funds that are obtained in its day, we will see, from Europe, precisely to reserve them to the management of the municipalities and to reserve them also to the..., well, to what is established in the proposal through a process, indeed, that is, as it is said there, different, with a participation, etc. In other words, it is basically setting up a specific fund to meet a number of needs by making a specific reserve of a certain amount of future funds and then with a new system, perhaps, as the proposal suggests, a new system of participation that is said there, isn't it? Then, in the end, too, well, we talk about putting in the means to avoid... I read the proposals, here puts the devotion, I understand that it means the return of the outside fund to the municipalities, I imagine it is a mistake. We all do it, me first, huh? It seems to me a proposal of interest, what happens is that I believe that any proposal relating to the alteration and, above all, to the improvement in the modernisation of public administrations – which I fully agree with and will also be the first defender always – I believe that it has to be accompanied by an analysis of what the administrative structure is and, above all, an analysis of how this type of application and this type of... let us say distribution of funds and application of competences will be carried out. I explain myself, that is, the debate is of extraordinary interest. Man, Bildu brings him, who actually also has institutional power in the municipalities. I understand that it is also not casual, if they had it in the Chamber, they might have brought it in, referring to that the Chambers are the best structure. Finally, it is another interesting debate in which we can enter at another time. On the subject of public administration, a debate that has almost never been held here was held once a long time ago, right?, in the former socialist government, which already seems very forgotten. There's a report out there, the one about duplicities. It is true that every time it is mentioned here it is said: no, it is an already very old report, it is that already we have passed it and such, reforms have been made. No reform has been made to avoid the duplication between the Basque Government, the outlaws and the municipalities. Because one thing has to be taken into account: administration is not an end in itself, administration is a means of providing a number of services. If the administrative structure consumes most of the economic resources devoted to it, if it is the administrative structure as such that spends those resources, then fewer resources are left to devote to the public service that is actually provided to citizens. That is why the proposal we are making in the first place recognizes, indeed, the role that the municipalities have played in this pandemic and is also recognised positively. What we are also proposing is that a catalogue of good practices be established, man, at least, because perhaps a specific and in-depth reform of the Basque administration is something much more complicated, but at least that a catalogue of good practices be established in the relations that are established between the municipalities, the outlaws, which in the end are also a species, a sort of authority that practically protects the municipalities in economic matters. We also propose that, yes, there should be extraordinary financing channels, that there should be, logically, extraordinary financing channels, but always ensuring coordination and collaboration between all administrations. This isn't about a distribution... The city council for the city council, the parliament for the parliament, the government the government, and let each one act on their side, as in the debate that we have had before, without really entering into the issue that is being debated or discussed, but that each one goes on its side, with which the effect is that structures are doubled, is spent more. But, listen, if administration is an end in itself, then it's doing well. But if administration is a means to ensure that citizens have a number of services, then that is what is being done wrong. That is why our proposal is aimed at improving the coordination channels, because, I insist, a thorough reform would perhaps require another procedure, but that the coordination channels between the municipalities should be improved. This happens, usually, that there are duplicates, that there are overlaps between administrative levels at certain times. And that links, confuses the citizen and, moreover, has a specific cost. Furthermore, I think it is also very important when we talk about public money – this is not in the proposal, but it is important – that controls be strengthened, above all. When we are handling public money, it is very important that economic controls be strengthened at all times. For example, in the last report sent to us by the Court of Auditors – which, by the way, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is now in the process of analysing the proposals to change it – there are, man, 14 municipalities in Euskadi, 14 municipalities, which have not sent them the information that the Court of Auditors has requested to audit their accounts, simply. That this is also not a matter of presumption that there may be any kind of illegality, much less. But, hey, this is also something we have to work on. And I think it would be good for Parliament to send a message in this regard as well. Listen, the issue of budgetary implementation control, something very important. And many of the administrations of this autonomous community, because, in the end, they execute it, do not execute it, it remains unexecuted. But I think it's very good that the accounts are audited perfectly. Therefore, the proposal that we are making, recognizing, of course, and I say again, the interest that this debate has, the proposal that we are making goes a little further. I mean, why don't we vote, we're not going to vote in favour? We are not going to vote in favour of the proposal because it establishes funding reserve systems for municipalities without having carried out a prior analysis, above all, of what the situation is. Whether the municipalities have to manage 30%, 40, 50 or 63.8 is something that must come out, it must come from a previous report that is done after analysing the services they want to provide to citizens and what is the administrative level that, in a more efficient way, can provide them. Perhaps the conclusion is that most services should be provided by a local administration, perhaps. Or, perhaps, the conclusion may be that certain services should be carried out by the outside administration or the Autonomous Community or the Basque Government. But we believe that this should be preceded by a preliminary study. And, in any case, it is true that the situation is pressing, as has been said in part, in the debate and will certainly be said a posteriori. And that is why we are proposing, indeed, that funding should be opened up, but also that coordination be sought between administrations. Why does it not seem to us that the 30% reserve of European funds is good in addition to this reason? Well, look, it's that we establish a reserve, especially when we don't know how the issue of funds is going to be articulated... The central Government seems to be very confident that it will secure a number of funds. We shall see, we shall see, because anyone who has had to deal with it, to negotiate and, above all, to present proposals to the European institutions knows that they not only look at it with magnifying glass, but also that they then see the execution. And in the rules on the execution of Next Generation projects there are a number of points, moments, milestones that are called this in the... Here are many professors or several university professors, they know what I mean. In the execution schedule of the project there are certain moments that are milestones that are called and then, on those sites, they will ask you for accounts; and if you do not fulfill it, perhaps you have to return. That is why we believe that the specific reservation is also not an issue that contributes anything. Hey, well, yeah, well, a headline, an argument or whatever, right? And then, finally, the government's proposal, man, is a little in line with what the group that supports or the groups that support the government, that yes, that it is doing very well, that it continues to do so well and that it continues to collaborate with Eudel and the rest of the municipalities. I will listen very carefully to what the other rapporteurs have to say. We really believe that, first of all, the debate is interesting. However, the resolution that is proposed is, I believe, part of an analysis that is not correct and that is why we have made an alternative proposal, which is what we will be voting for. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u68	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u69	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. On behalf of the Basque Socialists, I would like to express our full appreciation to the Basque mayors, socialists or not, who have been at the foot of the canyon in Euskadi for a very long year, day by day, exercising their powers and sometimes overcoming their responsibilities in the service of citizens always and with the aim of providing urgent and inter-agencyly coordinated responses and solutions. A municipality is, in fact, the public administration closest to the citizenry. And it's up to the Basque municipalities to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. They had to take economic, fiscal or social measures that they had not foreseen when they had approved their budgets for 2020. Measures that have been directed and still today are aimed at alleviating the serious situation that has suffered and is suffering both the citizenry and its local productive fabric. The municipalities, in the course of 2020, with budgets not adapted to the state of alarm and the confinement of the population, nor to the health emergency, had to deal urgently with a considerable increase in public expenditure, both for increases in personnel and in current expenditure, current and capital transfers, and have had to deal, in fact, with a decrease in budgetary revenues that were also not foreseen for an exceptional situation such as that caused by the pandemic, both in the income chapters for direct, indirect taxes, and in the chapter for fees or revenue for current transfers. The Basque municipalities, starting in March, took on, in addition to their competition responsibilities, even took on the implementation of aids or actions for competences which corresponded to other institutions. The indicators of proximity, urgency and responsibility resulted in various actions that, after the first months of this state of alarm, began to cause budgetary misadjustments in the local accounts. The Basque municipalities created, for example, local subsidy lines to supplement family income; increased social emergency aid; issued vouchers to purchase food, hygiene and cleaning products, to distribute; strengthened support for the fight against energy poverty; established measures to facilitate work and family reconciliation; created own lines to help recruit staff for the care and care of minors or dependent persons. There were municipal udalekus, reinforcement of aid lines for the purchase of school materials in local commerce, for the acquisition of SIM card, to also acquire computers, to deal with the confinement and the digital gap that was arising immediately. Bonuses also for purchase in commerce and local hospitality, distribution of masks and provision of sanitary equipment necessary for the municipal services themselves, to provide these services with maximum health guarantees, etc., etc., etc. That is to say, a long range of actions and measures of the most diverse and long duration that have also been adapted to the evolution of the health crisis and to the measures that were being taken by LABI according to its competences. The municipalities have received support from other institutions, but it is also true that they have had to deal with the implementation of these measures, in many cases, with their own resources, adding the difficulty of reducing those municipal revenues that they had planned for 2020. By reducing tax collection, municipal rates and public prices, they have not been able to offer municipal services, and that is why they also reduce their own resources. This difficult, and also complex, municipal situation was compounded by the sudden fall in tax collection from outlaws, which led to the need for preventive measures that did not lead to the economic bankruptcy of local authorities by the end of the year. The budgetary adaptations of the municipalities to actions and measures and the inter-institutional coordination to improve the competition, fiscal and financial mechanisms of the municipalities have been key factors in preventing greater economic difficulties for the municipalities, while they implemented palliative measures for the situations that the pandemic was causing. So far the diagnosis, which I believe would share the whole House. But this initiative by Euskal Herria Bildu was already registered in Parliament in November last year, obeying, in my view, a strategy of this coalition that had promoted the debate between the various Basque institutions as municipalities and general councils of the three historical territories, having failed in many of them and now reaches us in the Basque Parliament. And the Basque Socialists are not going to support Euskal Herria Bildu's initiative in line with the position we have maintained in other institutions and I will explain it to him. Today the fate of the municipal economic circumstances, after almost a year of coexistence with the virus and the measures to prevent its expansion, have placed us in another scenario, a scenario different from that of the first months of the pandemic in Euskadi, a more coordinated and collaborative scenario inter-institutionally, taking into account the scope and financial model of the Basque municipalities, which is based on shared risk, with budgets for 2021 approved, or on the way to be approved, and adapted, or on the way to be adapted, to the COVID situation, and with new financial and fiscal conditions that come from substantial agreements for the municipalities, both for 2020 and for this year 2021, and which constitutes all this an exceptional and less disruptive economic and budgetary framework than the one proposed for 2020. In this context of the economic and health crisis, through the agreement of the Joint Committee on Economic Concert on 30 September last year, budgetary stability and financial sustainability targets for the period 2020 and 2021 were agreed, with specific deficit and public debt targets for the Basque Government also being set, and here are also joint deficit targets for the outside parliaments. And this is very important, and it has also been very reasonable that the approved deficit target for outlaws has been shared with the municipalities, because this is a key element in expanding municipal economic capacity. The Council of Ministers, on 6 October 2020, decided, as an extraordinary measure, to suspend the fiscal rules in 2020 and 2021, and this decision coincided with the activation – by the European Commission – of the general safeguard clause of the Stability and Growth Pact, with the aim of giving public administrations the necessary flexibility to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. The suspension of the fiscal rules implies the abandonment of the stability path, so that the deficit and debt targets approved by the Basque institutions should be taken as reference rates allowing the regular budgetary operation in the years 2020 and 2021. And from this are participants the Basque municipalities. On 15 October 2020, the Basque Council of Public Finance agreed to distribute the deficit targets for outlying seats among the territories on the basis of horizontal coefficients. Hence, the outlaws have established, by means of standard outlaws, extraordinary and urgent financial measures applicable to local authorities, and the municipal budgets for 2021 are collecting all the economic and financial mechanisms and tools in these new circumstances to carry out the actions that the municipalities consider appropriate in the fight against the economic and social consequences that the pandemic has caused in their municipalities. The outlaws have drawn up and submitted to the General Boards of their territory, as I say, outlaws for extraordinary and urgent financial measures. They apply to local entities and can be extended by 2021. So, as far as economic and financial measures are concerned, it is not going to give me much more time. So I think it's all debated, all sentenced, because those foreign decrees are already effective and because this has been agreed on in the territorial finance councils of the three historical territories, that of Álava, that of Gipuzkoa and that of Bizkaia. And as for the initiative... At the last point on the European funds, the Basque Socialists, together with Basque Nationalists, have tabled an amendment that is literally in line with Resolution No. 23 of the November 16th Full Monograph, Full Monograph on European Funds. And that sets out the relationship between the municipalities and these European funds in Euskadi. The next 4th of March is established by Eudel an information session on the Next Generation EU funds and opportunities for the municipalities, so that on that day we will deal with issues such as how a municipality can access this opportunity to finance their projects, what calls there will be, how to articulate these additional budgets, when it will be known if a concrete project can be financed with Next Generation funds. In other words, a few doubts that in a thick stroke can lead to more specific specificities and resolutions on that day. I did want to tell you that this declaration of a 30% fund for municipalities makes no sense, because European funds are not being divided by economic amounts between institutions. That's not where the cast goes. The distribution goes according to the components and the projects approved by the European Commission, but not because it is a city council, not because it is a quantity that is going to offer us, they do not give us money and then we distribute, no, no, no, the money comes from the hand of each project or each component that is going to be financed. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Atucha, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u71	The lawmaster, the members of the legislature, good noon, or, well, good noon, we shall leave it like this. Well, Mrs. Corcuera has discussed the role of the town halls for the last few years. We share what we've said, so we won't repeat because we share the diagnosis. And I'll go straight to our correction. Well, this subject isn't new in this Chamber, and we've already discussed European funds. Madame Corcuer ended her interference like that. And about these funds, we know what teams are. We had a chance to make a monographic whole meeting. We have also had occasion to discuss these European funds in the tramitations of the ancients, and we shall probably continue to discuss them. Now we're discussing this middle-class. However, we believe that there are fundamental topics to be observed, and that we have been led by these, the socialist groups and the Euccanists to describe our amendment to the above-born proposition as the United States of the Basque People. And the medium does not alter the principal point of the original legal proposal. By framing the debate well, which I believe in some of the justifications, especially in the justification of the original initiative, a kind of mixture was established that we do not think is appropriate, we have to make it clear that the funds linked to the Next Generation initiative are not intended exclusively to deal with the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic. That is true and I believe that in the debate I believe that everyone we are participating in, taking part in it, we are clear. In this sense, three are, to be, the ways in which our municipalities will be able to access resources from the recovery and resilience mechanism. The first, through calls directly managed by the Basque Government and the deputies. The second, benefiting directly from planned investments by governments and parliaments. And thirdly, the direct route with the State. And what the two groups support in our amendment is precisely to achieve the desired capillary for these funds and that they can reach the municipalities. And to say this, as far as your middle-class is concerned, we have so much to say to you. You're the one who wants to create a special fund for the councils. As far as we know, Eudel does not make such a request at the University of the Basque Council, not at the rare meeting and not at the February meeting. Then 30% of the European funding you want to guarantee for the councils. And there is one essential idea which we want to emphasise: no one can guarantee it, no one can guarantee that 30% of the European funding will be reached. There is a fundamental idea that we want to highlight. No one can insure, no one can guarantee that 30% of European funds will reach the municipalities. Mrs. Corcuera told you. This is not a bag that comes, when it comes – it is another issue that we have to take into account – and can be distributed on the basis of a few percentages. They know perfectly well it's not going to be like this and it can't be like this. Either there are projects in the lines of action approved from Europe or there will be no funds. We've talked about this on quite a few occasions. And we do not know what the final amount of these funds and the temporary scope they will have will be. That has been said here, and we are repeating it every day, the Sailburu Azpiazu is being let down by saying so, but well, we continue with initiatives in this order. You've been talking about guaranteeing economic city rubber. Well, who's guaranteed the economic cause of the other institutions? Who? It's the same old question. Same old question. I want mine to be secured. What about the others? Who guarantees it? Who? Who? The fourth point in your compromise amendment, with nuances, is to incorporate the amendment adding the Elkarrekin Podemos group. Tell them, Mr Soto, and Mr Iriarte, that we totally disagree. As you know, the financing of the Basque Autonomous Community vis-à-vis the State follows the principle of unilateral risk, and the financing of the Basque institutions, the Basque Government, outlaws and municipalities responds to the principle of shared risk. If it goes well, if we have good collection, all institutional levels are benefited. And if the collection goes wrong, as has been the case, as is the case, we all go wrong and all the institutions. This is the system that is currently in place; this is our system. If you have an alternative model to propose, then do it: we study it, we discuss it. Do it. But, for the time being, until then, with the current one, with which we have in force, we have to work. Mr Soto, Mr Iriarte, in exercises with higher-than-expected collection – which has been there, and I am not talking about ten years ago, no, no, until very recently – the liquidation of the outside funding funds has been positive. Positive. In those years, no one asks that increases in funds be left with others. No one. No one. But when the collection fails to achieve the intended objectives, some groups rush to ask that, allow me the expression, the hole is responsible for another. And, oh, what a coincidence!, always for the benefit of the institutional level at which I have responsibilities, at the expense of others. Well, you have to be tough and mature, as are the mayors of the Socialist Party, as are the mayors of the Basque Nationalist Party, sitting there and sitting there. So far, in years in which collection was not achieved, I have seen initiatives calling for longer repayment deadlines, flexible conditions..., such initiatives. But you have taken one more step: to pay another, to pay the last, in this case the Government, who already know perfectly well what we think of this. In the exercise of their powers and within the Territorial Finance Councils, the parliaments have taken their decisions: they have debated and rejected these initiatives in the General Councils. But, well, they have the perfect right to continue raising the same issues. With regard to the amendment by the People's Party-Citizens, here is a starting point, for me fundamental. I want to think, but I may be wrong, apparently, that we all agree that the municipalities are older. I can make a mistake, I can make a mistake. I, of course, think about it and believe it, and defend it. Of course, Mr Gordillo, if the municipalities need to draw up a catalogue of good practices, they will. And if they need the cooperation of other institutions, they will look for it; of that I have no doubt. But without them asking, I don't think it has to be this House that tells the government to make a catalogue of good practices for our municipalities to continue, huh? That's what I meant when I was talking about the age of majority. They also call for extraordinary funding from the Government and for the most difficult municipalities. And, Mrs Corcuera has reminded you, these avenues, in the case of outlaws, exist. Another thing is that then, every municipality, in the exercise of its municipal autonomy, decides to join them or not – it suits me better, it suits me less – and they do it or not. But exist, exist. Well, the last point in your amendment is about interinstitutional cooperation. Yes, yes, we have no problem with such institutional collaboration but, of course, clearly respecting each other's rules of play. And, this is my first intervention, we will continue in the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u72	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Passing by the turn of the answers, the Representative of the EHG, Mr. Iriart, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u73	Well, in part, like Jack said. Mr Gordillo, on the institutional framework, and the review, and the report on its duplicity. It was funny to me. I participate in 2012, I believe, in that commission, and, do you know what we say on that occasion about a great duplicity that existed in our municipality, in Toulouse? It's the one at the Civil Guard headquarters. Yes, yes, tremendous duplicity; I hope you leave as soon as possible. Okay. About your transaction, it's that there's been a lot of expenses, because in your transaction it puts the financing channels within your jurisdiction. Of course, there are many expenses that are included, that are not municipal competence but that have made them. So, what we were asking was for that expenditure to be covered by or through this money. And then... okay, I don't understand my lyrics. But also, on the European funds, as I am going to reply to Mrs Corcuera and Mr Atutxa, because the answer will certainly come. Madame Corcuera, very well, but a lot of last year's expenses don't stop, and you don't answer them. Last year, in 2020, councils have taken over a lot of expense, for instance, in education. In 2021, 2020-21 at school, he's taken over, and he's increased support by the Board of Education to clean up. Last year school closed, but cleaning was kept every day. Not to mention the expenses and all the expenses which the locality of the community or the local establishments have made, as it were, of its own expense. So, the fund, that's what we were asking for. The strategy of EH Bildu. But if we agree on the diagnosis, why can't we come to an agreement? Because in the diagnosis I was totally in agreement with what you were saying. In the first eight minutes of surgery, he said, "Joe, I think he took my papers." But then I saw you talking about strategies. No, no, It's not strategy, it's need. It's not strategy, it's need. It is not strategy, it is necessary that it exists on the part of the municipalities. Because the municipalities, and you've been councillor at the Donostia City Hall and part of the government team, I understand that we are aware of what adjustment they have in the budget, what little investment capacity they have, if it's not their own, none, and the very one comes through urbanism and we see how it all ended. About the distribution of the projects already. Obviously, yes. No, it's not that 30% yes, 30% no. But how many meetings have been held with the municipalities to talk about the number of projects! It's just that the first draft I remember that you didn't even talk to the deputies, that's how they jumped like they jumped. Normal, normal. But, well, I've got time. I think there are two models here, and there are two patterns that collide. It is a vertical pattern, it is eternal, it is out of our minds, it is of the lowest condition, it is not transparent, it strengthens the towns, it is the people, and it has a state of disintegration. And the other plan is what we do and we put it on the table today. And it is a plan that will take account of multiplicity, which plans to extend the bounds of determination, and foresees a more open government, and wills what it pleases. And you who are in the government today don't see that. Hombre, you've created this institutional structure normal. And as you said later, who'll pay, right? Hombre, there's a twist that's been around the contributions, too, isn't there? But here fate always pays for councils. The council is right and you're still pressing the council. And it's the locals and the funk and fun to keep their investments up, they're municipals, they're the least they pay for their fate. We understand that it's time to change the equation. And if it's only about justice, the expenses that the councils consume, because we've been in the middle of a pandemy, at least they'll consume, at least, if you'll be satisfied by the fact that you're in the middle of this business. And, on the other hand, if we wish to build the future in another way, let us consider it. And this isn't because the Basque Country has a lot of strength in the councils and... No, no, it seems to us, and the people believe that the councils are close institutions, they are efficient. So we owe them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u74	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. Together Podemos-Bauker, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u75	Taking on the criterion of co-responsibility that effectively governs the Basque institutional framework, of course, for us it is contradictory to assume that in the early days of the pandemic – the worst we were going through – it was the municipalities that disposed of all those measures that were listed here, that is, that the municipalities assumed the fundamental burden of responding to the situation that was being experienced. And then assume that in the face of the loss of resources, the loss had to be distributed in equal terms. No, if in 2020 the key solution of the responsibility to respond to the crisis was exercised by the municipalities, the principle of co-responsibility should require institutions that have not responded so much to the crisis to support the institutional level that has been at the forefront, that is, the municipal level. Then, with regard to European funds. There was talk of the means of calling for access to projects and, indeed, there is going to be the way of access by the municipalities to programmes by calling, but then there are also very specific investments that are going to receive resources through the direct channel. And the fundamental criticism with regard to the territorial imbalance is that these projects, which are very concrete and are going to receive direct investments, are confined to very specific municipalities, mainly capitals, which agree that it is fair with those with whom the Basque Government has had contact and meetings to define which projects are being sent, and not with the rest of medium-sized, small municipalities. At the time there was criticism, both in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and in the full monograph to which you referred, about the coordination that the Basque Government had followed, or was following, to define those projects with the municipal level and the lack of contact with Eudel. That was evidence at the time. Indeed, there was a resolution that marked that the Basque Government had to focus on this coordination with the institutional level closest to the citizen, that is, with the agency, that this is Eudel. But that resolution, which they are talking about, was adopted two weeks before the final deadline for sending projects to the central Government. In other words, two weeks before it was supposed to change what would probably already be a done document, which was the document to be sent with the 188 projects. Two weeks later, the operation was to be altered and coordination with Eudel was to begin to address other new initiatives not covered by that draft document to be sent on 28 December. It's not credible, it's not credible. And, therefore, there were criticisms, moreover very manifest on the part of mayors and mayors of different political parties and, also, on the part of certain representatives of the outside governments. And, in this sense, do not assume that there was a lack of organization and foresight and transparency and to take into account at the municipal level, because, in the end, we believe that it does not conform to reality. And, indeed, it is true that this debate, although it is framed in the reality that we are living right now with COVID and its consequences, it is true that it is a debate that would require a much deeper reflection than here, of course, there are no prospects of having it, which has to do with the financing of the municipal level as a whole and in general, is it not? That there have already been some interventions by different spokesmen in this line, the lack of own resources to finance and basically the only elements linked to urbanism that make it possible to have own resources in this sense and, therefore, what are linked to what was said at the external level regarding their financing. And in this sense, it is true that a reflection is needed in this sense, but I believe that the character of the transition that has been made is in line with demanding a more priority role at municipal level both in its financial level and in its primacy in responding to times of economic crisis, and that when there is an economic crisis the first thing that is done is not to reduce by 20% the municipal resources for the financial year 2020, and also without even having contact with most of the municipalities. So, in this sense, I believe that the meaning and spirit of the transaction is fundamentally based on that, on putting in the forefront at the municipal level as a response to the crisis situations that are now being experienced and that have been experienced in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u76	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. I wasn't going to intervene in this second round, I thought the positions were clear, but by allusions, right? For allusions, well, let's see, I think this debate is of interest. If the group has repeated this and so on, it is also one thing that is part of the initiatives that are being presented to a Parliament, initiatives of political control to the government, and that is it. Or it seems that the groups that support the government are bothered to have to come here and debate, right? Man, I look like I've been the only one standing up here as Parliament's defender today. As a man, yes, because the opposition groups are presenting initiatives and, well, the groups supporting the Government come here to defend them, to defend the Government, in this case, and to attack them or try to rebuild them, rebuild them, deconstruct them, etc., as they do with the amendments as a whole. We already know that, but I do think it is a debate of interest to analyse how our Basque institutions can best be coordinated, because local, in this case outside, and also autonomous, Basque Government. I believe – Mr Atutxa has made some reference to me – I do think that I should, for example, draw up a catalogue of good practices, provide all kinds of administrative information, etc., and that, in fact, whoever wants to use it; then he will have his political, legal, and so on, but man, I think he should... is that if you don't ask him... I know, it is that I am concerned about the citizen, that is to say, me that the tripling of this between the duplicities sometimes there may be... No, it's my competition, it's not yours, it's yours, it's yours, it's yours, I don't know what. The one in the middle is the citizen and, therefore, I thought that in this I would be able to count on his intellectual sympathy, but I see that no, and I thought that it would seem to him a good, positive thing, to propose means for our institutions, of this land, to be able to coordinate. And let us not forget one thing, that is that all this is to provide a better service to the citizenry, and that the citizen is in the midst of the fact that if I do not now know what of this administration is angry with, that the foreign Member does not listen to me, that I do not know what, that the other, and that there are mechanisms of control because I believe that more and more coordination, I mean, more and more intense, that they respond to the purpose of all this, which is precisely that, that it is precisely the improvement of the service given to the citizens. I believe that this is the essence of this debate, which, moreover, has seemed interesting to me in almost all its positions, and I believe that it is a debate that we must bring to this House perhaps through a full monograph, the issue of the territorial structure of our land, right? Well, it was said here that the greatest duplicity is the Civil Guard headquarters. Well, apart from the ex-abrupt and such to look for the headline, that yes, it does grace and such to its bench, but, man, I think that, being serious, to me what it seems to me is really to analyze because how is the division of competition within a territorial structure, including all the competences, it seems to me that it is an interesting debate. It is an interesting debate, I think it is a debate that we can bring to this House, which, I insist again and with this I conclude, which I believe is really lacking such debates, and not only that the opposition comes here with a proposal, the government or the groups that support it simply deactivate it, and in the end let us not make a contrast of ideas that can be beneficial to citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u78	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u79	Thank you, President. Well, let's see, I, who also declare myself a municipalist out of conviction and also with devotion – to this I have devoted much of my political life – would like to point out that here we seem to be passing from points on what is not of interest to us. Yes, to Mr Gordillo, well, this good thing, which is very good the debate, which is very good and so on, we are going to be serious. Bringing this debate here to this House today means that no one is going to be able to make any decisions, because this is not where the decision to finance the Basque municipalities is made, that the model is already established. And, of course, then we start with the debate on the model, which seems to be what matters here, the debate on the model, which, in the end, Mr Iriarte, this is a milonga, is that it is a real milonga, because the model is already established, it is already legally approved. What are we talking about, then? And we're going to demagogy and populism. We say, no, no, it's that this model... I forget that there are laws and, listen, come, a fund for the municipalities and that the bad guys are that bench. No, we have not, because we have been very close to the canyon of what was happening with the Basque municipalities during this 2020. And because it is true that they gave the first, let's say, palate at the time of rowing against the COVID, but they have also received aid. And then measures have been put in place with that model of municipal funding that we have, which at some point has involved certain frictions between institutions, but which politics has managed to solve, politics has managed to solve. And where there was a fire, there was an agreement. And an agreement, moreover, very positive for the municipalities in 2020 and by 2021, so that their capacity was increased, let's say, economic. Not only because of the suspension of fiscal rules with the aim of deficit and debt capacity, but also because they were allowed to stay with the remnants and go to credit. Exceptional situation, exceptional solution. Because that was not done before – I don't know who was saying it about the members of the opposition – that was not done before, because the rules of the stability pact are what they have. We had fiscal rules, not now; in 2020 and 2021 not. And what the Basque municipalities are doing is taking advantage of the greater economic capacity they have to solve those measures, those budgetary misadjustments that have caused those measures. That's what happens, and that's not that it's another model, that's demagogy and populism when you want to go through history. And so you can't tell the story. And then, all this stuff about getting into capitals, big cities with small municipalities, not, Mr. Iriarte, all the municipalities of Euskadi, all those who have wanted it, are represented in Eudel; all of them. There they have their assembly, there they have their coordination and policy-making bodies. Everyone has that chance. This is not that some, the big ones, are the ones who can and the little ones are cornered. It's not true, it's not true. I understand he's hurtin' about Tolosa, listen, but what are we gonna do to him? Well, look, for some donors, it's better anyway. But since I do not want to go into pique-pique, it seems to me that things must be said with quality and rigour. We have Basque municipalities and they're all older. Everyone today has, they are under the legal framework of the Local Entities Act of the Basque Country of 2016, which they did not have. I could have defended some of his strategies or policies if he had told me this in 2014, in 2013, in 2009; with the 2008 crisis, of course, he would have defended it. Listen, but with a Local Entities Act of the Basque Country since 2016, to what underage municipalities are we heading? Because there's none. None. Everyone has their legal framework. Someone was talking about the duplicity report, I think Mr. Gordillo. Of course, the duplicate report is from 2011 and the Local Entities Act is from 2016. So, they don't fit. Certain debates are already overtaken, not overtaken, but perhaps overtaken. And I think it is worth saying that exceptional situations have been given in the financial framework and in the financial model that we had both the Basque municipalities and the outlaws, as well as in the Joint Economic Concert Commission, the Basque Finance Council of 15 October, the Basque Council of 12 February, which has already made the final liquidations and which has been able to solve in some way also those possibilities of greater economic capacity for the municipalities to approve their 2021 budgets and to adjust them to the capacities and measures they want to implement, because it seems to me that this should not be obviated, it cannot be obviated, because then we are playing another game, which is that of demagoguery and populism. Again I recognize, thank the municipalities, all the Basque municipalities that gave the face of day to day from the first moment of the declaration of state of alarm and confinement, until today. A lot of encouragement, a lot of luck, a lot of good management left to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Atucha, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u81	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Mr Gordillo, you said that the groups of the Government feel annoyed when we are presented with such initiatives. It's not like that, you'll understand me. When one has been explaining the same thing for many years and sees that the one who has in front of him is still "wrong to make mistakes", without wanting to learn, understand or share, because one arrives at a moment when he says, "Look, we have come this far." Mr. Iriarte, you were telling us that there is a question of need and sensitivity. Well, necessity, of course, necessity, because the one that the outside parliaments can have to have more resources at the moment, of the policies that they have had to stop doing because of the situation in which we were in, of the Basque Government itself, the need that it can have at the moment. Because in this House, of course, we ask: more in education, more in health, more in everything, more in all this government. But you go to the general meetings and the opposition, you in this case, ask the same thing: more, more, more, more. And in the municipalities too: more, more, more. And here the sum has to give 100. There are 100 for the Basque Government, for the parliaments and for the municipalities. He can't give 150. And you, with what you ask of the municipalities, with what you ask at the general meetings and with what you ask in this House, it is not that it adds up to 150, it is that it adds up to 300. And it can't be. It can't be, it can't be. He said it's not a question of where Euskal Herria Bildu ruled. Well, I'm going to remind you of some liquidation of the municipal financing fund for Gipuzkoa territory in the past decade. In that liquidation, rather, in the reintegration of the quantities, there was little sensitivity, much need, but little sensitivity, if I am not mistaken. I don't think I'm very wrong. We have talked here about funding, about municipal competences. I believe that there is a study derived from the adoption of the LILE which examines the level of funding of the various institutions that govern this country, that this country, and what it said. It is clear that we are facing an extraordinary situation. And in view of this extraordinary situation, extraordinary financing measures have been articulated. The capacity to indebtedness of the deputies, to pass a part to the municipalities of each territory. That is an extraordinary measure, derived from other extraordinary measures that have also been taken. Good. I, in conclusion, believe that this issue is not going to give any more, because I would like to take advantage to recognize the role of all the mayors, councillors and councillors who have been and are facing problems, facing problems, without pressing the panic button for others to solve those same problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u82	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Number of points in theme list: "The other proposal of the popular Euscal Group-Ciudadans, as a parlamentary group, about the demand of a necessary solution to the sick mental beings left outside DBE. To discuss and to decide once and for all." Team proposeer's turn. Mrs Garrido, representing the Basque Group Popular-Ciudadnos, has an initiative to present and defend her.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, first of all, I would like to thank the people who are accompanying us in the gallery of the Basque Parliament in this interesting debate. And let us hope, well, that we can push something to help resolve this situation as far as possible. The initiative we put forward by the People-Citizens Group understands that it is a question of dignity, social justice and solidarity with a particularly vulnerable group, which are all people with a mental illness and that their delicate situation and vulnerability has been aggravated since last March, in March 2020, the criteria were changed in Lanbide and people with illness who were on community floors were denied GIR. This was due to a change of heart. Until then, these people perceived GIR. It should be noted that these people with mental illness perceived GIR because they did not have a public resource from outside institutions, a residential resource. And because of the lack of access to a resource of these characteristics, the solution we understand was a transitional solution, but one solution was the perception of GIR and being able to have accommodation in community housing. As I say, the change in the criterion regarding the granting of GIR to these people last year, in March last year, is strictly applied and within the exceptions they are no longer given the possibility of granting them GIR. And, therefore, within these exceptions that two persons or two persons were made per dwelling, per accommodation, whether private or collective, since they are no longer admitted and denied the GIR. These exceptions, as provided for in the 2010 Income Guarantee Income Order, are accommodation units, residential centres for excluded persons or residential centres also for victims of gender-based violence. Therefore, we repeat, these people, in view of the lack of public resources by the outside institutions, saw a solution in this type of community accommodation in which they were living and thanks to the fact that they were receiving assistance, such as the GIR, which have ceased to receive it since March last year because of this change of approach to which I have referred. I think we all have to take charge, and above all a government and certain parties, which we are always talking about solidarity, about being the most social government, about what the situation of these people with mental illness can be, from night to morning, on the street and in a situation of total helplessness. I believe that they deserve minimal attention and, of course, an effort on the part of the Basque Government, in this case, to find a solution, which I believe is of justice, of solidarity, with these people at the moment. It is clear that this collective has been abandoned by the institutions, not only outside, but by the Basque Government. On the one hand, the resources of outside institutions, public resources, are insufficient. On the other hand, the solution of the Basque Government: to deinstitutionalize these people. Of course, deinstitutionalize these people with medication. And that seems to be the solution. That's not the solution. These people obviously need to give them more alternatives, especially to the special needs of people with mental illness. He said that the Basque Government has not done its duties. He has not done his duties, in relation to, as I said, the policy or criterion that follows: deinstitutionalization of these people, leaving them practically with a medication. The lack of development – and I think this is the great outstanding subject of the Basque Government – of the social and health space in our autonomous community. Mental health agreements are absolutely inadequate and do not cover the needs that can be found at present in this area. Not to mention the inaction of the Basque Government also in the adoption of the decree of Cartera de Servicios Sociosanitarios, which, as it is not approved, there are no services and services that can be allocated and given, as I say, to the needs of these people. That is why we are presenting this initiative. We believe that it is, as I say, a question of justice, a question of sensitivity with a group that deserves our full attention because it is in a situation of special vulnerability, which has also worsened once they have been denied, as I say, these social aid. We have always advocated a fair system of social aid from the People's Party. For this is the system of the Income Guarantee Act and for this is the financial benefits provided for in this Act, so that the people who really need it are there. And people with mental illness who had a solution with the perception of this help, which allowed them to be in housing and community housing, was the only alternative they had, and therefore, by taking away from them the only alternative they had, because they are, as I said, in a situation of absolute abandonment. That is why we asked, and we ask – and I thank Elkarrekin Podemos and also the EH Bildu group, that they will support the initiative and, well, Elkarrekin Podemos because it is the group with which I have had the initiative – the sensitivity towards this issue. Well, the groups that support the Government have not understood this. And I am sorry that you have not understood that it is necessary to seek an urgent and immediate solution to these people and to the situation of these people with mental illness. That is why, as I say, we called for an urgent solution to respond to people with mental illness who are excluded from GIR, because they live in community homes, so that they can receive these benefits immediately. We believe, as I said, that it is necessary to amend the Income Guarantee Income rules. This is another of the great outstanding subjects of this Government, of Mr Urkullu's Government. In the last parliamentary term, in the full term of office, the lehendakari told us – and the social affairs councilwoman herself is also present in this debate – that the two challenges in the social field, as regards regulations to be adopted, were to promote the amendment of the income guarantee income regulations and a reform of Lanbide to remedy all the shortcomings of the Basque employment system. Well, the legislature's over and not one thing or the other. In this legislature, too, these are the commitments made by this Government. That is why we are already demanding, once and for all, an amendment to the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act of 2008, amended in 2011, in order to effectively set up a fair system and that the system actually includes the people who have to be there. And in this case I think it's fair that people with mental illness... And for that if there's no need to change the law anymore. If it is to amend the decree! If this Government, when it wants and has the will, changes the regulations in relation to certain subjects! We do not understand the passivity of the Basque Government, the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party on this issue. On the other hand, I believe that the Basque Government should also be given another earshake in connection with the financing of places with mental illness in the agreements, as I said earlier, of social and health expenditure. The bloodiest case is that of Álava. The existing agreement with Álava does not cover the social needs of foreign residences. It is absolutely insufficient and this has led to a debt with significant amounts that have accumulated over the years. Finally, as I say, we have signed a compromise amendment with the Elkarrekin Podemos Group, to which I thank for its generosity and willingness to resolve this issue. As I also have to say, an agreement by the Elkarrekin Podemos, EH Bildu and the People's Party was possible at the General Councils. In this regard, at least in the vote, we were voted on our original proposal and, once again, it was evident, because this government will have a large majority, but it was evident, obviously, that there has been no sensitivity to this issue, because it is the same groups that are in the government in the Foral Diputación de Álava and in the Basque Government. We have incorporated, at the request of the Elkarrekin Podemos group, an issue that seems important to us, which is to comply with Motion 5/2017, concerning the commitment of the Basque Employment Service to publish the criteria for the processing of income guarantee income in relation to several issues that we also found interesting. It is a mandate of this House and that the Basque Government obviously has to fulfil. Well, ultimately, I think that – as I said earlier – we are talking about a question of justice, solidarity, dignity and that this government deserves special attention. And, well, we understand that from this group, and that is why we decided to put forward an initiative for debate in this House. I want to especially thank all the people who give a solution to these people with mental illness, who are busy collecting GIR because they don't have any other kind of resources, and already, if these people who don't have any other kind of resources on them we leave them without the only alternative that remains... For I believe that we all have to take care of ourselves, we all have to take care of the situation in which we can find ourselves. And, in that sense, I ask for a little sensitivity from the groups that support the Government if, in addition, they are established in a government of such a social character as the one that they always preach to us, and it is that the social begins with these issues that should be the first. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u84	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, representative of the Podemos Group, Mr. Soso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u85	Okay. Good morning, again. We look to the main basis of the initiative: basically it is that the Basque Parliament urges the government and the outside parliaments to urgently articulate a solution to respond to people with mental illness, excluded from the collection of GIR for living in community housing, so that they can start to receive the necessary financial benefits immediately. It is difficult for us to believe, as has already been said, that it is difficult for us to believe that, in the face of such a concrete, specific and common sense request, there may be those who oppose it. Our political space, which has always referred to GIR as a subjective right and not as a social aid, considers it absolutely inappropriate to lay down requirements or interpret them in such a way as to limit this benefit, such as that which we are considering today. Let the amendment of the parties that support the Government speak of studying the opportunity for change, which, in fact, they say so in textual terms, "to study the opportunity", seems to us, sincerely, a toast to the sun. The need for its revision seems obvious. And the euphemism used, that of "studying the opportunity", I understand that it is, basically, because they had to draft an amendment, and we understand that in order not to get their fingers in front of something that is of drawer, as is this modification, for good, because basically they have established the element of the opportunity of the measure. But it is difficult for us to understand, when we talk about studying the opportunity, who defines this opportunity, if they refer to the moment, if they refer to the content of the amendment, if they refer to the resources available to make this change... Finally, how to measure the fulfilment of this subjective right on the basis of opportunity. We do not come to understand, at last, something so obvious, how it is necessary to address the opportunity for such a change, and on the basis of what concretely that opportunity needs to be addressed. I say that, and it has been explained above, this GNP responds to the situation that is taking place because of the lack of coverage of GIR in people with mental illnesses, who are within programs or resources as protected floors within the framework of inclusion itineraries. In addition, these resources managed by the third sector generally lack the status of an agreed or public place, which, by the way, is also quite questionable. But, come on, we basically talk about entities that are getting to where administrations in many cases don't get to. Since, if we were faced with a community housing, recognized as a service agreed with the Diputación, Social Action usually certifies the exceptionality of such a cohabitation unit, and in such cases it does give access to the GIR. But, I repeat, in view of the exceptionality, Social Action determines that there is an exceptionality for access to GIR on Community floors agreed with the Parliament. In those who do not, users do not allow access to GIR, which seems to us to be very serious and that it needs to be modified. The original proposal, from the People's Party-Citizens, which we then negotiated, I say that it seems to us very concrete and perfectly consumable and reasonable. Although it is also true, and we cannot let it pass, that the reflection on RGI and the problems it has today, cannot be plotted or reduced to concrete exclusion cases. We believe that the reflection should be much deeper. Hence the need for the law to be amended as soon as possible. And it is true that when we make this approach to the background of the issue, that is, to the need for revision of the GIR, it is true that in those cases – and, well, in this Parliament we have had the opportunity to see those debates – it is when the People's and Citizens' Party and we and we tend to go further and further away. But, in any case, it must be recognized that on such a specific issue we have been able to find ourselves, reflects the will of agreement that we have both political forces to solve such a clear and clear problem. And, of course, it denotes, in the end, the lack of capacity in this case and the willingness of the parties that support the Government to respond to a situation, I say, so obvious and so concrete, beyond, I say, the general reflections that around the modification of the GIR we will have an opportunity to make and that it is necessary to make the time come. And that we have probably come to that point, because there are issues that separate us from the parliamentary groups that have now signed this initiative. But, in view also of the amendment tabled by the groups supporting the Government, it seems that the distance is also quite sidereal with them, at least as far as we and we are concerned. We cannot forget those more than 60,000 people in poverty, who are in violation of their right to income security and do not receive any benefits, since they cannot access it. The high bureaucracy, the tightening of access requirements, the obsession with control and the persecution of an almost non-existent fraud – less than 1% – is thus encrypted by Lanbide – have left thousands of people with desperate vital situations at the stake. We cannot forget the moment of economic emergency that we are experiencing, the increase in income differences that have been exacerbated in recent years, the pandemic, and how we should have made use of GIR to cope with the situations of unprotectiveness that we are currently experiencing. In fact, the lack of use and ambition with regard to GIR, at this time of pandemic, corresponds precisely to what I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, and it is to the difference in the consideration you and we and we make regarding the nature of such a benefit. And it is that we and we consider it a subjective right, and so it was considered at the time, and not a social aid for indefinite unemployment. We have turned it off, and we have proposed it on more than one occasion, from the element of employability. It is a subjective right, a fundamental tool against poverty and social exclusion: what better opportunity to demonstrate the self-government of Euskadi than to go beyond the social shield deployed to deal with the pandemic, and in this case to make use of a resource as important as that of the RGI. I am not going to go in now for lack of time, but I suppose that I will also have the opportunity, if I may, to mention, and if we do not have to do so at the moment, the issues that we have already proposed in this House in relation to the changes and needs that are needed in the GIR: relinking the GIR to the Minimum Interprofessional Wage, delinking access to the guarantee of income from employment and social services, since it is essential for a better social protection system to eliminate much of the social stigmas that derive from the problems of managing the GIR by simplifying it. Finally, issues that we have already dealt with in the last parliamentary term and that we will certainly have to put on the table again at this one. In any case, I say, it is quite surprising that in this case it has not been possible to reach an agreement with the parties that support the Government. And in any case, if at the end of the day this is simply to resolve the opportunity of the change to deal with such a dramatic situation, I hope that this opportunity will be resolved by the governments, that is, by the parties that are supporting the Government, as soon as possible, that this opportunity will be resolved as soon as possible. And if not, then we will probably have to bring this issue back in the short term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u86	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u87	Yeah. Thank you, President. Today, the People's Group proposes an initiative concerning the perception of IGD of people with mental illness. And part of the premise that Lanbide has denied income guarantee since last spring to people with mental illness who reside in community homes. However, in our view, this approach is not correct. And that's because Lanbide doesn't set criteria for granting income guarantee income based on what kind of illness a person has or doesn't have, doesn't ask if he has a disability, if he has a disease, if that person can... or you can treat people with mental illness. What does set out the current income guarantee income rules are accommodation typology criteria. And they are recognized in those who meet the requirements of the conditions set out in the Social Services System and, depending on that, have the corresponding authorization as community accommodation. And those accommodations that do not meet these requirements are refused. They are now calling for an urgent solution. And it arises as if it were a situation that has occurred throughout the Basque Autonomous Community. When, in reality, we are talking about a case that has been given in Alava exclusively; there is no case either in Bizkaia or in Gipuzkoa. And besides, in a specific accommodation. The People's Group made a public complaint on 14 December last year at the Alava Boards, and two months later it proceeded to register this initiative very casually also after Bildu registered another on another collective that receives Income Guarantee Income. But, in reality, this initiative has to do with collective accommodation, not with people with mental illness. The Income Guarantee Income Act currently in force regulates housing in article 10. And he says: "For the purposes of this law, housing or accommodation means any physical framework habitually used as a residence by one or more persons who intend to live independently not under common authority or regime." And it also recognizes it "for those parties used to form independently by the cohabitation units mentioned in the previous article of the physical frameworks of collective residence that are determined on a regulatory basis". And in this regulatory determination, Decree 147/2010 states that in order for accommodation to be considered collective for the purpose of charging more than two benefits, it must meet the requirements to be considered a temporary reception centre. In other words, they do not serve permanent residential or reception centres for this purpose. And reference is made to foster homes, residential centres for people in situations of exclusion and marginalization, or residential centres for women victims of violence, domestic abuse, and other residential services for women. In addition, it is required that, following the mandatory authorization, they be registered in the National Register of Social Services, in compliance with the provisions of Decree 40/1998 regulating the authorization, registration, approval and inspection of the social services of the Basque Autonomous Community. In the case of accommodation for persons with mental illness, it is that, according to article 22 of the Law on Social Services, they are not among those covered by the regulations in force. The problem is that the council returns the standard as collective accommodation, but that doesn't mean they are for income guarantee purposes. What Lanbide began to review a year ago was compliance with the requirements of collective accommodation, which had not been carried out so far. In other words, it has not changed the criteria or the requirements to be demanded, they remain the same. But such compliance had not been verified so far. There has been talk with the deputies, so that the list of those accommodations registered in the permitted types could be passed. And in those unregistered sites, new applications have been refused if there were already more than two income guarantee income. And those who were already receiving the benefit were given the hearing process to look for accommodation that met the requirements. But it must be borne in mind that in the Register, among other things, the maximum number of places that such accommodation can have appears. The assumption that arises today has to do with an accommodation in Vitoria, where they had been asked, yes, Mrs Garrido, where eight granted files had been requested, where people were charged a rent of 300 euros and Lanbide paid the supplementary housing pension of 250. And this accommodation was not registered in the Chamber. Moreover, it was not a temporary housing case, because the people who were housed in it had been registered there since 2017, that is, four years ago. We are therefore talking about a specific case that did not meet the requirements. Moreover, neither in Bizkaia nor in Gipuzkoa has there been a single case, nor is it widespread in Alava. So, let's see if we can clearly focus on what the problem is that we're talking about. In addition, I am aware that for this particular case they have been meeting with the Member of Social Welfare, they have been with the Vice-Adviser of Employment to find a solution to that particular case. But let us not talk about a generality and a problem of perception of income guarantee income for a group that are people with mental illness, because we are not talking about that in any case. That is why we do not see the need to change the current legislation. We have on the table a commitment to reform the Income Guarantee Income. Commitment made before this Parliament by the Vice-Lehendakari and Counsellor of Labour and Employment, by Idoia Mendia, and also reflected in the government agreement between the Basque Nationalists and the Basque Socialists. In addition, there is a commitment that the entire Income Guarantee Income reform will be completed so that it can enter the Basque Parliament by the end of 2021. The reform of Income Guarantee Income was initiated and attempted in the previous legislature. It couldn't be done. We have resumed our commitment in this legislature, but we have now found that, in the interim, there has been a situation that is changing and that we must take into account when we look back at the whole bill on income-guarantee reform. And it is nothing other than the approval, in this period, of something as important as minimum living income. And that approval of minimum living income, which is signed in September 2020, has to be incorporated into this Income Guarantee Income Reform Bill and will imply having to review many issues – such as those relating to living units, such as many things – because that minimum living income has to be integrated and cannot be collected in a different way for minimum living income and income guarantee income. Then we have to retouch that project. It is a very broad project and this implies a very thorough work to be able to make it compatible and that it is required even if they have different requirements, but that the general procedures and concepts are not different for the minimum income and the income guarantee income, as well as the transfer of the management of the minimum income. Therefore, we do not agree with the need to reform the current Income Guarantee Income rules now for a concrete assumption that did not meet the requirements. That's done through other ways. Yes, of course, we agree on the Income Guarantee Income reform, but this reform has its process. And it will have to be carried out and implemented with the legislative timetable and with the deadline set within it. That is why we have not signed the compromise amendment that was signed today between the People's-Citizens Group and the Elkarrekin Podemos Group, because we do not agree on the need to reform the current rules in this case. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u88	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Chief of Investigation, Congressmen, good afternoon. Well, sometimes the pursuit and the last, or, in this case, the fact that some people are the second, sometimes crushing you, but in some cases they repeat a machine to mantra in this Chamber. And therefore I shall say the same, as often as I have occasion to say. The social service model in this town works, and it works. That doesn't mean it can't be arranged, changed or improved, in several areas. And that doesn't mean there's not even trouble. And still more with the wants which have been introduced in these times. There's always something to get better and it's always good to make it better. In the presence of this situation, our party agrees that it is necessary to guarantee public services, to make a firm wager for the social police, and to be solimatized with individuals and collective individuals who are in a state of the highest possible state. And for these purposes, it is evident that the balance of money is an essential instrument, not the only, but the essential. And I, well, as Mrs. Sánchez has said before me, does not set the profession according to the kind of disease that a person has or does not possess, according to the manner of disease or mental illness of a person. What sets them up is the regulations of the Berme of the revenues of the revenue, which are the criteria of the housing types, and are recognized by those who follow the terms established from the system of social services. And, according to that, communal housing permits. And I agree again with Mrs. Sánchez, this initiative concerns the housing, the communal housing, not directly with the people of mental illness. And what has been brought to us in this enterprise is a particular case, if we are informed at least what takes place in Aran. The information we have in hand does not occur in the gymic and Biscaia, and therefore it cannot be questioned, but it would not be fair to put the whole system into question. I have already said in this legislation, and in the former case, that we need an integral solution of things, not a partial solution, and still less a private one. I don't want to take away the importance of the case in its size, and we'll have to find a way out. But in this case we also meet with the jurisdictions of the Arada Fordulous Forum, and it seems to me that there is always some solution in common, but that it is a great deal liable to madness. First of all, that no one understands anything but the trust and confidence of our party, in the entire Forundum of Araiba, and in the department of society and of theirs. Therefore the way we see it, and as far as we are concerned, is what appears in the correction of the law of the Berme of the House of Money, in order to strengthen the example of the euphony for the welfare of society, and to ask for the aldunity, whether it be the case that the two of them do not have any business, but that it should ask the fortitude to follow the standards of propriety, and examine in the framework of the system of social services. And in all these points we present, he wants to make a little comment. One: Here we have mentioned the necessity of changing the Berme of the revenues of the revenue, and of which, as in the former legislation, our honesty has been mentioned in order to arrive at the agreements. And that's where we can treat all we have to deal with. In the meantime, all institutions can only fulfil the established law. Two: I don't care whether we, like the Chamber, are not controlling or soliciting an institution that we don't control, but when it's a particular case of this kind, and when we talk about particular cases, and when we talk about those who can come to its dramatism, we should perhaps choose other ways or resources, with regard to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u90	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Passing the corrections into the group they've put in, Mist must not speak. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs Garde, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. To-day, to put an end to the gathering of the whole, as my colleague Hora Kothaen, who is my colleague, has more than once said, "Poes para Cerrar el día, tocan clasicos populares de ay de y hoy: RGI, Professions, etc., right? For the other proposals made by the PP-Ciudadnos on the table today, which have a mental illness, and which are to be given a necessary solution to persons who have left the revenues of the revenue, as we believe, have several plans behind them. But I'd like to begin with what we share today, even if it's clear that they're antagonical, as far as the revenue is concerned, our bets? We share, however, that we are in the presence of a very serious problem. Yes, we've left people who are part of a vulnerable collective again, and who have mental illnesses unprotected. And that's what the Basque Country has put on the table again and again, with the revenues and the protection system of the revenues of the revenues of the revenue and the long-terms. And that makes a lot of people get out of the system. Look, it's more than a decade ago that's been a very useful instrument, and if you want it, it's a full day. And we say it's torn, because it's the very end of the law by the Mudic criteria that have been put on it, and it's not just because it brings people to the system who need protection. And we have seen it constantly: with autonomous workers, with women who have suffered machita violence recently, with monomary families, and now they seem to have come to the turn of people who have mental illnesses. Mrs. Sánchez, it's not the only case, it's not just the case, and it's not just a case that's happened in Aran, we know that Bilbo's happened. And we also know they've been looking for a solution. And though this is the case, even though it is the only case, it deserves our full attention. Instead of spreading the system's protection, it leaves people helpless. And that can't happen, and we can't abandon the most vulnerable collective without any protection. And, look, there's a data. According to the state of poverty and social necessities, there are people in EAE 60.629 outside the real state of poverty and the DSBE system. The data is 2018, we haven't got it up yet, but think of the name 6,629, with the name of the people in the state of poverty and no protection. That's what happens. That's real. And once upon a table, and beyond DSBE, I dare say that the persons who have mental health and mental health are forgotten in public politics; we lack resources, and we lack squares. We're short of public squares. And the discussion is not new. As Garrido brought it here, a couple of weeks ago, this discussion was given in the General Assembly of the Arabs, and today it has been about it. And in both these institutions the same void has been discovered, here and there, and the same governments support the institutions. I mean, it's a horrible square ecstasy. What's that got to do with it? Well, you see, a lot of people with mental illnesses are out of the public protection network, and consequently must appeal to the corporations of third sector out of the world's network, such as their resources, to the communal housing. And the revenues use the rent to remunerate them, because many have no other income, no income. And there's the first mistake, many people who have mental illness use their only income to pay for a special housing service, unless in private areas they have enough square of public service. Well, that's a surprise, isn't it? To remind them that we have also the sousanitary decree, and that, to improve that way, we expect that we shall ever arrive. And that's why we would protect the first and fourth points of the original legal proposal. And that is why we will protect the almost complete middle course we have in hand today, because we believe that it requires more resources, and because we believe that now and now we must provide a solution and solution to the present problem, that to those who have taken away DSBE must return the income as soon as possible. Ze, badakizue Lanbideko langileek zer esaten sayten? Oh, acting like a mahai heurean, jende konkretu horri performance kentzeko. Like what, huh? They have a direct order on the table to review the benefits of people with mental illness who live today in community housing outside the Diputation's network. Mrs Sánchez, that is so, said by the Lanbide workers. And don't deny it, because I'm telling you firsthand, I've been talking to them. Community housing, too, by calling it something, because in some cases they do not meet the requirements, but they do exist, and they care for people who have stayed outside the public network of the Chamber for lack of places; that is, to see where the problem comes from here too. And it turns out that, not happy not to give them that square that suits their needs, above all we are going to take away the only benefit with which they also pay that resource in which they live. Come on, I don't know who this genius has come to. I don't know who issues that order, but I think that order can come out of Mrs Mendia's department, which is not here at the moment, but I think it is also up to her to correct this very serious mistake. And if that's what you want me to do, it's possible. And to do it today is possible and without changing the law. And these conditions cannot wait, and this is a matter of political will. For, at the point, the question is not in the law, but in the narrower interpretation of the law. The problem stands in a decree, and is in the strictest criteria marked by the profession. And the change is in the hands of the Government, and the Mountain is in the hands of the chief physician. And these serious problems will solve and be solved today. For the sects that support the Government require in your correction the reform of the law, but we have the problem now. The problem is today. Where are your proposals now to solve the matter? We'll talk about reform, when it's time, and you know where you'll find us. But now and then, to solve the serious problem we have here, they need the measures and decisions we have to make here and here, and forgive us, but reform will not bring us any solution for the time to change. And you know that. Is it gonna be a solution to the second point you've received in your correction, that is to say, to ask the parliamentary Fordoval Foru to examine the communal housing? Well, it may well be, but your fellow-parties, in the Supreme Council, have not shown any nobility for that purpose, or even less. Because they're in the hands of the profession and the DSBEAM, they've said it's all right with this Chamber to solve the problem. So you guys know how to turn the ball from one ceiling to another and from one organization to another. And while they're both out of protection, people don't have income. And what I said is in your hands, okay? And, knowing all this, when we have read the several parties' corrections, we think we have only one affair: to put on value one of the most powerful tools we now have to protect the people. We need to put the revenues on the remuneration value and legitimize them. And that's not done with restrictive interpretations, and that's not done by keeping people out of sight and out of safety. Therefore, to conclude all this, I should like to remind you that many and many have been the agents, experts, and industriously passed through this legislature. And all have agreed with the need to correct system dysfunctions, with the need to extend the system's capacity, with the need to insert the genus view, and to facilitate the management of the system. And we'll be there. The position of the EH collect is clear at this point. The Basque Country is an essential element of income to remunerate the revenues, in order to guarantee the dignity and rights of every person, as well as the exercise of the social jurisdiction required by this people. So, please, let's get out of here. Let's go straight down and get the consensus back. You'll find us there. That's all it takes to legitimatize the system and take care of the system. And we often say it, and often we say it, and we continue to repeat it: take care of the one you love. Let's go take care of what we love, but let's do better, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u92	Thank you, Mrs Garde. Passing the answer round, representative of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadanos, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Well, Mrs. Sánchez, beyond the criteria that Mrs. Mendia's department might have passed, I would ask her to be more sensitive to people with mental illness. It's not an isolated case. And I would also ask you to approach this reality: it is not an isolated case. And, look, you're ruling in all institutions, you're ruling in Bilbao City Hall. The Bilbao City Council is trying to find solutions. Therefore, it is not a case confined to Vitoria. And if not, please inform yourself, but it is not a case confined to Vitoria, it is that people with mental illness who do not have sufficient resources, in which several institutions intervene, because they need social and health assistance, the social and health space is absolutely abandoned by the Basque Government, not taking on the expenses that they have in the outlaws, not approving that decree of portfolio of social and health services, deinstitutionalizing people in an absolutely vulnerable situation, where they do not give them anything else, where they do not give them anything else, and the only alternative that these people had was to charge an RGI and with that money to cover this kind of housing. It was the only alternative and you have already left them without the only alternative you had. Of course, since what you say to me in relation to that the decree was not being properly implemented, but how can I get out here and tell me that a decree that is the year 2010 is not being implemented? You who, when you want to... Are they now in negotiations for the transfer of much more complex transfers, with many absolutely far-fetched points, unable to amend a decree to give a solution to the people who have remained on the street? I don't know if you when you make these kinds of arguments in this rostrum believe them. Are they unable to modify a decree to give a solution to these people or other kind of solution? Concert that kind of square with this kind of housing! But there are solutions! Look, when you told me they were isolated cases... Look, it's that the list – and I'm also telling Mr. Telleria – of the people who are on waiting list in Álava pending from a square, in Álava there are 76 people... It's just that you, since governing the Álava Foral Diputation, which is the case I know best, no new health place is funded, no new mental health place has been funded, it's just that you're systematically saying no to proposals from this group in relation to empowering more resources for this type of people. These people are now completely abandoned and are of justice and dignity and solidarity in a society, in Basque society, whose leaders and political leaders who are currently ruling must give them a solution. Look, the absolute majority that you have at the moment in many institutions will do you good to vote, but they certainly do not cover up mistakes and do not seek solutions to problems as obvious and serious as the one we have brought to this debate today. When I was told about the decree – said the speaker, Bildu's spokesman – I advise you to follow the appearance of your deputy today at the General Councils of Álava, who has shown his concern about this issue Mr. Sola, who previously also was with Mrs. Artolazabal on this issue in the Foral Diputation of Álava. If you have said that you are seeing the possibilities of amending the decree, how do you come out here and tell me that the decree cannot be amended, if the possibility of amending the decree is being studied in the Basque Government? Do you have no dialogue between the institutions and between your own Basque Government? I do not know, Mrs Sánchez, what guidelines Mrs Mendia has passed, but the possibility of changing this decree is being studied. @In short, I believe that, obviously, it is urgent to find a solution, it is urgent to find a solution and it is the responsibility of this Government and the parties that are ruling at this time. You cannot preach like the people's government and then abandon people who have now been left on the streets in a situation of particular vulnerability, who are people with a mental illness, who are people who do not have the assistance resources that they would need because of the inaction of the Basque Government and the outlaws that you govern. Change the decree, conclude squares, seek solutions, but please listen to them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u94	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Podemos-The Batter of the Union, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u95	In short, not recognizing the problem is the first of the problems. The fourth point in the compromise amendment concerns the lack of funding for agreed places for people with mental illness. No one or, at least on the part of the groups supporting the Basque Government, has ever referred to this question, which is, in fact, the basis, the genesis, let us say so, which generates the problem. Should funding be increased in relation to these places or not? I guess so. Starting from there, there is an indirect problem, which is that, in view of the lack of places, it is necessary for the third sector to act and have spaces for people who cannot access these public places to have these resources available to them and to them. And, on the basis of this dramatic situation, which is the lack of public funding for these people who have to resort to the third sector, in view of this circumstance, what comes here to say is that, on the basis of a restrictive interpretation of the decree, they do not meet the requirements of access to GIR. Otherwise, if they had a seat agreed with the Chamber, the fundamental problem, if they had it, would apply that exceptionality and receive the benefit from Lanbide, and would therefore receive the benefit from RGI. That is, not to acknowledge that the situation is absurd and that it is flagrantly irresponsible on the part of the institutions not to face this situation, I find it surprising. Finally, very simple things have been revealed here. There is a lack of funding for public places offered by the Parliament and that leads to a problem that is the inability to access a resource such as RGI. Because the people who want access to this resource are currently on floors under the protection of the third sector and, in this case, this is not envisaged as a circumstance allowing access to the resource of the GIR benefit. This is basically the summary of what has been mentioned, and if this is not a dysfunction, you will tell me what it is. And more in view of the fact that we are talking about a subjective right, as I mentioned in my first speech. That we should put belts or corsets on the collection of a benefit, which is a subjective right and that, moreover, those corsets that are established are like those mentioned here, a restrictive interpretation as regards community accommodation, in short, that we are talking about people with mental illness who, by not having agreed places, are going to the third sector to provide them with a remedy that the institutions do not provide and that, in view of this circumstance, they cannot perceive the GIR, which is the only income they have, and that this issue is not addressed as a function, I find it very worrying, and I find it worrying that the reform of the GIR that we are going to have to address in the coming months, because if this is the direction of the parties supporting the Basque Government in relation to the reform of the GIR, let us, that is, it is to get our hands in the head. Because in such a specific case, which seems so obvious and so simple, the opinion of the parties that support the Basque Government is this, because you will tell me. With regard to the mentions that I made in my first consideration or my first intervention regarding the changes that we have already proposed in the previous legislature and that they did not have the right to consider, such as recovering the reference of the Minimum Interprofessional Wage with respect to increases or eliminating the reference to employability and considering the nature of subjective law in the case of GIR, the truth is that the technical references that have been made to the implementation of the agreement – which I say, in our view, is a restrictive interpretation of it – do not indicate a good direction for an agreement with our political formation in relation to the modification of GIR. Let us hope that, when the time comes, when it comes to addressing this issue more profusely, the starting point of the parties supporting the Basque Government will be different. And, in this sense, it is true that there are other issues to be put on the table, such as the concertation of the Vital Minimum Income in relation to its adequacy to the GIR. Okay, but we'll talk about it right now, because it's true that it's a very important issue, but about this... Anyway. Nor have they made any mention of the third point which is to comply with a motion approved in 2017, which has not been complied with, concerning the commitment to publish the criteria for the processing of the Income Guarantee Income. Nor has any mention been made by the parties supporting the Government in relation to the implementation of this issue. Finally, let us hope that the leadership of the parties supporting the Government will change and that, in this connection, the opportunity will be given to amend the decree. I am not going to insist on the issue that this is not an isolated case because the spokesman for the People's Party and the spokesman for EH Bildu have already done so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u96	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u97	Well, my parliamentary group, of course, all sensitivity. And, of course, you have – in order to reach agreement on the compromise amendment – made the same negotiation technique, a negotiation technique that you carried out at the third point that we discussed earlier here today. You have drafted the amendment between you and, when we were at the end of the fourth point, you have not come to see whether we liked the Nationalist Group and us the compromise amendment that you had reached. And, man, the truth is that that's no good way to negotiate when you're really trying to reach agreement. What you wanted was obviously not to agree. That's why they've used that negotiation technique. We, of course, have asked – and we have seen it – it is – and, moreover, it has said this today in statements made by the outcast Social Welfare Member – it is about... –yes, yes, I have heard them too – it is about..., the problem has to do with an adequate rating of these accommodations, whether they have that rating or not, whether they meet the requirements or do not meet the requirements. Nevertheless, for this particular case I have already said that it is meeting with them and they are seeing and seeking solutions. But, Mrs Garrido, Mr Soto, does it have to be, perhaps, that solution to modify the Income Guarantee Income or the income guarantee standard? Maybe the solution isn't exactly there. Because, I think, perhaps, it is not the best way to find that solution. Maybe we should look for another... Well, in that they are, trying to find the most appropriate solution. But don't put and pose this as if it were a generalization, because it hasn't been. They have been very timely cases, and that is what has happened and what the solution is looking for. It was a matter of failing to meet the requirements of such accommodation or of not being registered or of being permanent and not temporary accommodation, which is what the Regulation marks. So, if those people specifically affected did not meet the requirements, that is why they have had the problem. And, I said, the solution is being sought. But let us not generalize by saying that this situation has occurred over that group and that the solution is not being sought because there is no sensitivity, because it is not the reality of what has happened. So let's focus the situation properly. And, of course, we have on the table the reform of Income Guarantee Income. And, as Mr Urrutia has said very well, I hope, of course, that when the bill comes in with the amendments that have to be made necessarily in order to include within it all that comes with the Vital Minimum Income, which is later than when the entire bill was drafted and which necessarily involves having to retouch many things right now in order for this coordination to take place between the inclusion of Vital Minimum Income and the entire Income Guarantee Bill as it came from the previous legislature, because it will be done, the legislative timetable will be fulfilled. It is scheduled for the end of this year. We have to make all this modification which, I repeat, is not baladi. It is quite important what entails introducing all that Vital Minimum Income, because it involves touching many things so that they go in coordination what is requested in units of coexistence for Vital Minimum Income, for what is requested for Income Guarantee Income, etc., etc., etc. I am not going to expand on that whole issue now because it is not the substantive issue here today. And I hope, of course, that at that moment, when the reform of the Income Guarantee Income comes into this House and this Parliament, the different groups will bring and present the amendments and contributions they consider relevant and we will achieve the greatest possible consensus, if the opposition groups really want to reach agreement on this issue in this legislature, which they did not do in the previous legislature.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u98	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians. Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be short. Garrido andrea, in your first intervention you said that the social health agreement does not comply with Álava. Apparently, Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia do. Look, I don't usually accept that kind of argument. @Maybe Álava has her needs. It might all be better. But not for a kind of difference, of distance that can be made between Alava, Gipuzkoa, Bizkaia. I'm glad if that wasn't the intention of your argument. But I wanted to make it clear because there are times when a certain distinction is made, you usually want to make in some speeches a certain distinction or territorial distinctions. But, look, you've given me good news. And I'm just gonna take it easy. I didn't know Mr. Sola had made those statements. But if you've done it and you say you're worried and, besides, you're going to take the problem, it leaves me more quiet, it leaves me much quieter. And besides, they're good with what I've told you. Because I told you that here the responsibility of the Foral Chamber of Álava was obvious. And if Mr. Sola is worried, he won't be long to be busy. Thirdly, you spoke in your first speech, of an agreement, of an attempt to reach an agreement. Man, I liked earlier the description given by my partner, Mrs. Ipiñazar, at the point she has had, who says she recognizes that there has been an attempt, but no intention. I didn't see any intention. I didn't see any intention. I know there's been an attempt. I admit there's been an attempt. And you said that for these cases there is the RGI. Yes, yes, for these cases there may be GIR, yes. But you will recognize that probably the rush to solve the problems that this collective has cannot wait for us to reform the RGI, especially if we go with the games that we went through the last legislature. Mr. Soto, listen, really, don't talk to me about differences between the RGI, or don't try to teach us lessons, because really in the government you're in is... The whole issue of Vital Minimum Income has now come out. And really the RGI, with all its system problems... No, don't do this to me. You are. Don't do this to me. The vice president of Social Affairs is a Pablo Iglesias. Good. So, if you want, when you arrive, we sit down and compare. If social sensitivities are in it, when we want to compare. And don't give me that speech that you have to rely on in the third sector. The third sector in Euskadi is wonderful. But I'll tell you one thing. In that IMV everything, practically, you who are so advocates of the public and the public, everything, or almost everything, or much, is left to the third sector. Therefore, I do not accept lessons of any kind in that regard. And, Mrs Garde, you used to say "clásicos poelares." Yeah, that's right. But among the "clasicos potulares," there is always an argument of the Basque People meeting, saying: "One knows what this decision will be made according to, it is not clear. Tien una no sé qué orderi encima de la mesa para estos no enten." And sometimes such theories as the conspirators seem. They also include in the "clasicos potulares" in eiscal politics. And look, I'll tell you something else. I didn't know the Bilbo, but I don't understand why, if Bilbo's done, he won't fix it. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u100	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs Garde, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u101	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. There is a question which has not been mentioned and has not been mentioned in this discussion, and which is really disturbing to us, and it is the position which this government has before the protection system during the reign of Pandemia. You see, during this long year, when we've been facing the most violent social crisis and economic economic crisis, many other governments in the world have assumed their own protection systems, they've been reorganized, they've adjusted and strengthened them to face the unprecedented crisis of the pandemies and to protect the vilest collectives in it. But I'm just saying, "You know, if you're talking about it, it didn't show up to make it better, to adapt it or to fit it up." Instead of spreading the protection and the rights, it's gone off to help you: We're going to open the emergency aids for the third sector, we're gonna give punctual assistance to the operating officers. But that's what it is for a people who have confessed the guarantee of a financial strategy as a right, because it's a step back for us. And besides, we must see how people who are in the state of neglect in the midst of a pandemy and have mental illness are left helpless, or are not allowed a solution. This is very gravity, very serious, and also painful. There are also painful things which we have heard from the sects which support the government, as if there were no difficulty here. Eta exacten dugu, bai, Lanbideko langileek acting baztertzaile bat dutel euren mahaietan. Eurek esanda: "We have an order to review these files and, if necessary, restrict benefits". Eta, well, a specific question, Mrs Sánchez: for those people who are outside the parliamentary resources, for those who are served by the third sector because they have no place in the public sector because they are waiting for that place, what do we do with these people? A concrete question to a specific problem, and you run the bundle and tell us about reform. And that gives us a great deal of anxiety, as today is revealed, the state of helplessness, the situation of necessity is being given today, now and here. Some of us have been identified, they are known, like these, and some of us are sure we don't know them, but waiting for the protection of the reform. Let's say in the next few months, in short time, that it comes to us, even though you've said it's in a very complex situation. But how long would transmation and all at least take us? When do we want to protect people? Do we want to protect people in 2023? We're talking about a very presbytery situation, we're talking about emergency situations that can't wait. What has been said leads to the reform of the law as if there were nothing else to be done between it. But it is curious, because at the same time we see how the revenues vary with the sources of the rent, and that the instructions are given vary in the interpretation of the law and orders in the profession. Now, if the statements are given and the interpretations of the law are made over and over again, we understand that they can also be made in the opposite sense, but not in the contrary sense? Open the gate. The protection can be made to spread and the decree can be changed, can't it? Don't hide, don't hide. With respect to the media, first of all, to thank the teams for their hard work, and to say that we will protect points 1.3, and 4. And that we will abstain at point 2. So, Mr. Congressmaster, we'd like to ask you to vote on points. And the problem is simply, as has been said before, in a narrower interpretation of the law, the problem lies in a decree, and the problem lies in the strict criteria of the profession, instead of protecting the people from the system. And this change belongs to the government, and it can be done now and here. It is a matter of political will, and from that point forward it is an excuse. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u102	Thank you, Mrs Garde. All discussions are over, we're going to vote. If we're all ready, we'll start the vote, okay? The second point, the bill of law made by the EH Collect Group, that is to guarantee the right to my maximum welfare, is to consider. We can vote to consider it or ignore it. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 42; 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 42; the contrary is the abscessions, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u103	So he doesn't consider it. Point three: "Motion, Elisabet González Rodríguez, together with Podemos-Nemoker, a member of the United States, present in the social services of the hotels to ensure the efficiency and adaptation of the protocols of COVID-19." First, we'll vote together the Pedemorz-The Batu and EH-Protecial corrections that have been signed by the Collectors. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 42; 75; the supporters are 33; the opponents are 42; the oppositions are 42; the abstainations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u104	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we'll vote for the full correction of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudads. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u105	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. And finally, the Basque Socialist, the Eucalist, will vote for the full correction that the Eucators have made. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 42; 75; 41; the opponents are 22; the contrary is the 10th, the 10th; the white is 0.1, the 10th, the 10th, the 10th, the 10th, the 10th, the 10th, the 10th, the 10th, the 10th, and the 10th;
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u106	So, no correction has been accepted. Point 4: "Motion, Louis Ignacio Gordillo, son of Perez, a populiar, a member of the Ciudadans, a member of the community of prison services, regulations, and the means of handling human resources." We'll vote for the original text of Mr. Gordillo Peérez's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the parties are 42; the votes given, 75; the supporters 7; the opponents 68; the abstentions, 0; white, 0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u107	So it's not accepted. Next, we'll vote together, the United States of Podemos, the Basque Socialists, and the Middle Amendors. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the parties are 42; the votes given, 75; the supporters are 68; the opponents 7; the counters are 0; white, 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u108	So we have to accept the half-path correction. Point 5: "Pull up another bid as a parlamental team, and then I'll make sure of the extraordinary special funds for the town halls." We'll vote for the middle-directional correction that the United Podemos-Emokers has signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 42; 75; the supporters are 27; the contrary is 48; the abstentions are 0; white, 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u109	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadans. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the parties are 42; the votes given, 75; the supporters 6; the opponents 68; the abscessions 1, the white ones; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u110	So it's not accepted. Finally, Eucabertians, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; 75; the supporters, 41; the opponents 34; the Absences, 0; white, 0.1,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u111	So the correction of the integer has been rejected. Sixth Point: "The Companion of the popular Euscal Group-Ciudadans as a parlamentary group-about an urgent solution for the patients who have left out of DBE." We'll vote for the popular Basque Group-Ciudados, the half-correction that the United Podemos has signed together. No points requested. If I took you well, one, two, four? All right, and apart from three? Oh, 2, OK, 2. Then we vote one, three, four. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 42; the votes given, 75; the supporters 34; the opponents 41; the contrary, the abstainations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u112	So, they didn't take three points. Next, we vote for number two. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given in the assembly, 42; 75; the supporters, 13; the contrary, 41; the abscesssion, 21. white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u113	So the second point was not accepted. And finally, we'll vote for the Eucobertians, the general correction of the Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] [[End of tape 57.]] [[beginning of tape 58.]] [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; 75; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 34; the abstations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-25.u114	So the full correction has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. May I remind you, please, that those who have to form a change of rule or a reform board are going to the committee? Okay. Thank you. The meeting ended at four o'clock in the afternoon.
