ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the subject list, I remember that 32 lords and ladies have inherited the vote. First point in theme list: "Punish the proposition of the law made by the parliamentary band, concerning the establishment of the new program of the young men's profession. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Ms. Saez de Egilaz has the word, in order to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u1	Congressmans, head of the legislature. Thank you. Good morning. "No future for the young! "You heard yesterday in the neighborhood of Mirakru of Donostania, and even imagines the future, because you have condemned us to false hopes ("There will be no victory without losing"), but we can't forget our young men on the way. So today we come with a definite proposal, think, dispute, and, as we believe, a proposition to be accepted. You have often told us that this legislation will be marked by instability and preventiveness, and by the necessity of circumstances. We're not going to exaggerate the execution of Pandemia, since you're not sold to us by Urkullu and his government are still magic, but we're looking into the effects of the pandemary, we're studying deeply, and we know that the decisions which this government has made will not be the only choice. And so we have come to offer new opportunities in the course of the day, so that you may not say that the principal opposite party does not make any proposals, for it is not convenient to rule with the lies of the cheapest. We may perhaps discuss ambition, political ambition, because this Chamber has the ability to transform reality, and to influence it in public lives. And sometimes it seems to us that it is directed from this assiduity, and afterwards done; or that, though it be said, it does not often do. We've been talking about the prefect for some time. And so, too, it's been a long time since the young preacher has installed himself in ours. Now, if you wish to transmit that some people live with this as normal or as a matter of consumption, we will not yield. Because you can overcome the youthful distraction, you can always work for another job model. And for this we must place a quality employment at the centre of our institutional activity. We are speaking of the work of structure and the preparation of life which we young men live in, because this is not only a small problem which concerns the work-world, and especially because this state has not been produced by a virus. We speak of pretors, young men, because we have no choice to decide and develop our projects of life, without handles, and condemned to prevaricate. There's a whole generation asking for an answer, and once more you've fortified yourself between four walls of the lake, forcing yourself to wait, but not to offer an alternative. Today we are also talking about precarious lives, because young people's life projects cannot be carried out. These lives cannot be sustained if institutions fail to fulfil their duty. If public policies are created without putting people in the centre, job insecurity is but another terrible consequence of bad decisions, of poor management. And today is precisely what we are seeing, that "from those muds, these muds", that having put the capital and the Jauntxos of Confebask at the head of public policies implies precariousness and labor exploitation for the workers. The rate of unemployment of youths has been doubled compared to the year before. They are in four unemployments from ten young people, but it is only possible to lower the rate of unemployment because, despite the descent, we need to study the outcome of the employment. The Prefect has a thousand faces, a thousand edges, and though one of these rates of unemployment, we know that there are ten other problems. It is impossible to doubt that the conditions of the young are generally too far removed from their social employment, and it is an example of the miserable wages, the temporary employment contracts, the unpaid practical contracts, and in general the young projecting them as cheap labor hands. Remember that we have one of the greatest rates of temporary work in Europe, too. We have recently opened newspaper headlines and Teleberri headlines with the drama of youth unemployment, as if it were happening: "The poor girl who has no decent jobs, poor girls". But apart from recognizing the drama that this entails, from your position nothing is done. And we'll always say that, because I think it's the basics in politics. These chairs and positions of power cannot be used to continue to finance and justify precariousness. And what do we young people expect in these pitiful conditions? Simplely, nothing, or simply, everything. Progress in life presupposes a great expense in the day of our youth. This Prefect, the instability, the want of everyday choices, and the little prospects for the future have caused the young %a to be a victim of depression. No work, no home, no friends, no fun, and it's costing too much to go. You've forgotten young people in this disaster. We clearly find that nothing can be financed with public money, and that it has hitherto been a disgrace to the employment police. Just a preacher. Governments form conditions in the field of employment, and therefore we insist that the conditions should be determined with respect to high employment. Because it's no use working in the election program with a quality job, and then not taking any real measure to overcome the structural prevarication. Porque uno de los mayores problemas resides in lo habituales que se están convirtindo statusos pracharos. "Y sabendodes por qué pass esto?" Porque nadie las limita, son totalmente legales, y muchísis emassis usan estos mecanismos porque la mano de workrata de la genus joven les salesiado. Es más, reciben ademas incentivos porello. Es decir, podriamos decir que la exspiación de los jóvenes es praaqua hubitia en las provincias. But we don't like to hear this, do we? Well, we know, this government has a right to make up its mind to let the young men behind the exploitation they suffer in their work. Otherwise, I will tell you what will be the headline of this legislation: "You know, it's still funding young players for four more years." And we know that the present situation does not help, we know that COVID19 has created a perfect stage to represent these problems, accelerated, and represent a world without hope. But although they are doomed to live with a virus, we can't consume so many things that can be surpassed. And above all, we cannot allow instability and a preparation of structure to be condemned to live daily in our bodies. It's no good to say that the government is doing something, when the little thing that it's doing is to break our eloquence. To do something must suppose us to do so, and we young days deserve to encourage and set public policy on our side, and we need it. This is not a whim; we speak of a legal political confession of fundamental rights. And there's another thing that's too much level for you to let yourself rot in drawers that are going to become so common in this legislation. And the advance of this Urgence has been greatly extended by the relativity of the Precinct. It could be said, or we can make a real record of what really happened. In the case of the situation, the citizens, and especially the citizens, who maintain the government of Araba, Biscay, and Gipuzia, have had only to admit that the situation in which young men live is a prelude. However, the word 'preference' did not appear in the priorities, in an invalid attempt to conceal it; we do not know why, but you did not use it. Sometimes I do not quite understand the things I hear from this court, because people are talking in other terms in the street, because they talk in other terms, because people talk about their lives in the street. It seems to me that when you're talking about prevarication, we need to hear interesting speeches here. Porque, claro, Capando eldo el amundo habria de precariad y todos los periódicos abs portas del domingo hablando de la inestabilidad el empleo de los jóvenes obéis teni que carro, porque es impos nobulo deello. But you still keep talking about the prevarication as if it were like a coincidence or a meteorological phenomenon, something that appears and vanishes without consumption that the responsible exist. Ya, señores y señoras, a lasos por su nombre y a los problemas, solución; and there you are. And what do you offer to all these young nurses who are tired, who have not been able to rest for ten or ten contracts since the plague began? Is it natural that these workers should sign a new contract every month, that they should not have an unlimited contract? We'll get sick of fatigue if our young nurse doesn't give us a real answer. Or those guys who are working for nothing in the company funded by Red Munch? Or those young workers who are subject to the arbitrary caprices of the owner under the contract of the fine work? Honestly, who's the scholarships for? For young men or deafs like their necks, for men with neckties who choke young men like that? And what about all those Magistrar graduates that are still being given? Explosions, when? You can't live with the money some private people learn in the library all day long. Or what have we to say to young men who, under the pretence of the law of foreigners, become illegal, who have not received legal answers from the established States? The Willis Drummond team says to us, "If it's our business, change your law! "I don't know. If it's illegal, change your law. If it doesn't work, change your law. If your normal behavior is a divesper, it's normal change. And we wanted to bring a new proposal for a new normality today, because applying the same recipes to new conditions doesn't bring anything good. We want to focus on an account that's a harpsichord: We have to work on high-quality jobs, because we young people need all the decisions on our lives and jobs. We have to go through words and carry ahead the plans that can be made from declarations. We come with propositions, because there is no other way of governing, and that we have something to say. It's not enough to create a job, because it's essential to create worthy employments, and that's why we have to establish a few minimum. And now, for reasons of which I have already explained, we hold that they have given their own, rather than the proposals for the younger than that of the young, because we have hitherto seen programmes which serve only to instruize and prevent the young. And therefore we come with this proposition, with the axis of employment of quality: On the one hand, we suggest that those programs which have hitherto been active and yet have no intention of destroying themselves have been defined and modified in the way of social employment; and that, on the other hand, the hitherto existing ones have given their own, and especially that the attacking plans for the young men's employments work are only supposed to make a plan, to start a new massy new program to prevent the young men's preparation, which will have a functional axis. What for? To decide how young people live, not to let young people go out once in two weeks, to guarantee young people's illegal rights. Companies and corporations don't use the cheap young man's hand for exploitation. Considering the platitude of young women, not to condemn young girls to extreme eloquence. On March 8th the scarf is not enough to lift the arm, because public policies must also include the demands of feminism. Because Feminist is not a politician who takes good photos, but a politician who builds public policies from feminism. So we have it clear and clear: We need boundless contracts, contracting all over work, 1,200 euros for 14 payments, otherwise we can't live; adapting adaptation to form and job, and letting young girls disappear in the first row, in order to make the payers disappear. You've got the alternative right here. We brought you this alternative today. And to go to the end, today might be a chance to change direction and place our young people's lives in the centre, start a new pattern and start making the first steps. We understand that there is a great deal in the game, and that, owing to the state of these young men, this instability must be taken care of. We do not determine the interests of the people, we do not mark the interests of the people; the interests of the people mark our political conduct, our direction, and we are led here. And if you don't accept today's proposal, you'll think the young people's backs are turned over once more. I hope that in the next few minutes those who will hear from thislist will be in the defence of these interests. And above all, and also parlamentary exercises for the next few months, to carry them forward according to those ideas which are here maintained. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together represent the Podemos-IU team. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u3	Good morning, congressmen. The problem of youth job insecurity, of course, in the opinion of our group, is not a problem that comes with the pandemic. Moreover, we believe that this country is a structural problem. We believe that youth precariousness, for many years, has become a key part of the economic model in this state and also here in Euskadi. In the end, in some ways, it was achieved that youth would go on to enlarging the army of cheap labour to allow an economic model based on low wages and precarious working conditions. And hence the two fundamental elements that have characterized youth in the world of work: high unemployment rates and precarious working conditions. It is true that the pandemic has triggered unemployment rates in recent months. Especially here in Euskadi, we have seen an important upturn, but, of course, youth job insecurity is an old problem, it is a problem that has been coming for many decades and that, as I said, is structural. In addition to the precarious conditions of young people in the world of work, the unemployment rate in Euskadi is now above 42%, i.e. almost half of young people want to work and cannot, but, as I said, this only aggravates a painful situation in which working youth have been living for many years. The situation has worsened since liberal reforms began to be adopted in the 1980s, which included, among other things, an increase in timelessness, which is ubiquitous in the case of youth. For this reason, our group would like to contextualize briefly the issue brought to discussion today and to begin by recalling that the most powerful strike we have experienced in the Spanish State was precisely that of 14 December 1988, convened in the face of the intention of the then government of Felipe González to approve precisely what was called a youth employment plan, aimed at advancing radical liberalisation in the labour market, focusing on working youth, reducing working conditions and rights with the excuse of facilitating the recruitment of young people. A mantra that has been repeating itself over time: flexibility to allow the argument that this is going to bring about greater recruitment, something that at this point in history has proved absolutely false. That general strike, the most forceful that this country has experienced, and of which many of you surely have in mind some of its images, was a great victory of the workers, which forced to withdraw that plan. But, later, many of those policies have been adopted and implemented through various reforms that have brought us to the present time. But it was a great victory because in the face of a deception named "youth employment" – because words endure everything – the answer was from the whole working class as a whole. Then came the temporary work enterprises, turning young women and young people into temporary workers, into precarious labourers of any sector and trade. I remember it very well, because I got caught young at that time, when one week you were working as a responsor in Alcampo, the next week you were palletizing fish boxes and the next week you were dyeing pommes in a factory. Temporaryity, partiality and wages of misery. Then came the labor reforms, following the 2008-2010 crisis, especially the labour reform of the People's Party. In addition, young people have not experienced any economic recovery in recent years, and the data confirm this: the average rental price, the most affordable option to be independent and start a life project, obliges them to allocate more than 80% of the salary only to the payment of housing. And despite all this – and it must be acknowledged – they have been, like the whole working class, on the front line during this pandemic. In some very specific jobs, in addition: cashiers, responsadores, food distributors or parcelry, who have played a key role during the confinement stages. Most young people hired during the pandemic have been on temporary or part-time contracts, low wages and without too much expectation of continuity. The employment offered to young people is characterized by precarious temporary contracts, in which insurance is not available during all hours, with endless working hours and in which overtime is usually not paid, and when it is paid in black, without a contribution, without a statement. One of the greatest expressions of this precariousness that we have known in recent times is that of the false autonomouss, which in itself is not a new question, but which has affected in a very special way the youth (the famous riders, to put an example, to which it now seems that they will finally start to put a certain stop). Addressing the struggle against job insecurity that plagues and characterizes young workers requires, therefore, no doubt, to reverse the legislative history of the last decades, starting with the Labour Reform of the People's Party, but also to advance in legislation that ensures that jobs, whether they are worthy or not, are jobs. But the Basque Government also has something to say about this. Addressing this precarious employment also requires that policies for the promotion of employment do not end up being policies for the promotion of precarious employment. "It is not worth anything so as to generate employment"; we have supported this statement in different debates in this House by our group. The Basque Government has a number of tools aimed at promoting employment among young people, but the requirements set out in these tools do not guarantee that they are quality jobs, and should therefore be improved if we are to ensure that the public money used is intended for quality employment and not to generate any jobs. Guaranteeing wages worth at least 1,200 euros should be a goal and a requirement, if we pay public resources for those jobs. We have to make changes. Changes must be made so that public money does not perpetuate the practice of temporality as a form of recruitment and, together with this, precariousness. And, of course, it must be ensured that public money does not end up subsidizing jobs where overtime is done, most of them, as I said earlier, absolutely illegal. And this is a very common practice also in jobs supported by youth employment promotion programmes. These programmes are not by far the scope proposed by the Basque Government when it proposes them, but they are also not guaranteeing the quality of the jobs they promote. Along with the modification of these programs, we continue to insist on the need for a powerful Labour Inspectorate, where files do not accumulate in folder towers in view of the amount of workload. An inspection that has greater capacity to act beyond the complaints that are presented, because most irregularities and abuses that are committed – and in a way that I would say more acute when we are talking about working youth – are not denounced. Fear remains the best ally of precariousness. Ensuring that jobs are of quality in a capitalist system, where the most important thing is the benefit above all, is not an easy task. Young workers sell what they have: their workforce. And the conditions do not mark them; that is why they need the protection of public policies that are intended to put an end to this precariousness. Alongside collective agreements and labour legislation, employment policies must have a red line: employment, either is worthy of wages and conditions or is not employment. And for youth, right now, we are far from being able to guarantee that. Behind public resources there is a lot of precarious employment among youth, and that is not acceptable. The agreements are improved by the workers with their direct struggle. Legislation, we have to radically change it with the support of the trade unions and the working class, but also from this Parliament we have to guarantee two things, in our opinion: firstly, public money only for quality employment, and not to subsidise entrepreneurs to hire cheap; and secondly, the real ability to control the labour market from being a jungle for young people. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u4	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Euscalo Popular-Ciudadnos's representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u5	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. President, chief physician, good morning, congressman. To-day we are again discussing an interesting subject, considering that pandemies have been specially influenced by young men at the rate of unemployment and prevarication. The situation is very serious for this collective, and it is necessary to push different enterprises among different institutions; and especially in this case, the first of the Eucommena will certainly be on the side of the young man's position. The reality of youth unemployment in all the Autonomous Communities and in Spain as a whole is undoubtedly very worrying. But we, this group, the People's Party-Citizens coalition, were concerned about a figure we knew at the end of the year, in relation to the data from the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, which indicated that the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country had recorded a higher increase in unemployment rates in the third quarter, above the state, by more than 42 % and by 12 points in the last year; this growth, as I say, is greater than in the rest of the Autonomous Communities, where the unemployment rate was 40,45 %. In this sense, at the end of the year Euskadi was the fourth region with the highest rate, surpassed only by Canarias, Andalusia and Extremadura. I believe that the situation faced by young people – derived from the pandemic and from the health crisis and, consequently, from the economic and social crisis – will undoubtedly have an impact on the youth community. But it is true that, even if it is a generalised scenario, I think that also in the Basque Country – and considering that the youth unemployment rate, completed the year, was a point and peak higher than the state average – that leads us to have to make a specific reflection also in the Basque Country, taking into account, moreover, that four out of ten young people are in unemployment. Thus, at the introduction of the Basque Popular Party and the Ciudadans to our proposal, we saw that it was necessary to strengthen our programmes, especially, and at the same time to prevent all of this. We thought it possible to agree with the groups that support the government, to see that we had a lot of points in common with the Jelt Party and the Socialist Party's corrections expressed by the Socialist, but it is not possible for us to appeal to the abstification of it, seeing that it mentions an agreement in November 5th of 2020, a treaty signed by the Law, and that we went to Abstition. Then, in this case, we're going to have a promotion, but we're going to have to say that there's no such thing as creemos que elementos suficalientes de aproximación con los partos que apoyan al Gobierno para poddora log ir un acuerdo este. No sido así, y, well, otara vez será. With regard to the initial proposal, we may have some point of coincidence, but with other aspects mentioned in the initial proposal we do not have the possibility of agreeing because we believe that it also clearly affects areas of collective bargaining. The original proposal to draw up shock plans, which we too have included in our amendment, and the whole amendment tabled by the Elkarrekin Podemos Group, is good. In short, we will support, as it cannot be otherwise, our amendment, which I believe is also quite sensible. And I say that I believe that the groups supporting the Government would not have to have any reason to oppose it, because we are talking about strengthening existing programmes to improve the employability of unemployed young people, especially those who are in precarious employment, and we are urging the Basque Government at the same time to develop and implement new shock plans to put in place new measures to address the delicate situation faced by many young people in Euskadi. I think this is what we have to do. It can't be. We have also the Chief physician here, Chief Enpleguer, Mrs. Mountain, but we think this must be the way. And so we're going to continue our various initiatives in order to face this situation and, above all, in order to fulfill its duties. It is true that I also think it is appropriate – and since Vice-President Lehendakari and Employment Adviser are also in this debate – to reflect on Lanbide, the Basque Employment Service. I know that they are in it, but obviously – and in terms of data and reality – we need a transformation of the Basque Employment Service, all that has to do with intermediation, with orientation, with training. The expectations have not been met and we have to point out that Lanbide is a fundamental tool at this time to achieve the objective of employability, and, above all, it has to be an effective tool and a reference service, in this case also for young people in the search for employment. And I think that must be the commitment, Madam Counsellor, Mr Lehendakari, in this legislature. I think it was the great subject pending from the previous legislature. It was a commitment of this Government. The duties were not done and we hope that this legislature will address this issue with the priority and rigour it deserves. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u6	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u7	Eskerrik asko, Madam President. Hearing you, Mrs Saez de Egilaz, I will tell you that the Socialists not only have diagnoses, but also proposals to solve employment in general and also the problems of precarious youth employment. The last one, from yesterday: the Reactivate program, for young people to access an opportunity – and, moreover, with rights, which is not little – to continue learning and, instead of paying for it, to have income and contribution. This, not to be proposed by the vice-lehendakari, is that it was told in first person by a 23-year-old girl. And I can hear what you say, but I also hear what others say. I learned that as Secretary General of the Socialist Youth of Euskadi: learning to listen to others other than us and who have experiences other than ours. But, look, if you want, let's start with the diagnosis. Precarity in youth employment is something that already existed before the pandemic, but that the COVID crisis has shown more crudely. This year, COVID, unemployment among children under the age of 30 has increased by 20%; by 24% if we refer to children under the age of 24. There are 3,639 more young people looking for employment without finding it. But, if we look at the last few months, this group is the one that is most intensely reintegrating into the labour market. In six months, 7,000 young unemployed less. And this fact has a clear explanation, which also affects other segments of the population: the people most affected by the labour market have been those who are in a situation of greatest vulnerability due to their labour instability, and there are young people in that sector. But the same worrying fact leads us to another of which we also have to realize: our economy is showing an enormous capacity for resistance and, above all, a clear vocation to promote new projects. With regard to youth and employment, we have a great challenge ahead: that the new opportunities that the economy is going to offer us reach young people in this legislature. And to that end, this Government has made a commitment to put on the table the tools to achieve it. The Department of Labour and Employment, headed by Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia, is committed to having all the agents working in the labour market to achieve, not only to reduce unemployment rates, but to ensure that this job is of quality. And one of the basic conditions for quality is stability, and that's the great Achilles heel we have with youth unemployment. The Basque Government has designed a clear, well-defined road map, not only to rescue Euskadi from this crisis, but to push it towards a definitive transformation. Yesterday the members of the Governing Council of the Berpiztu strategy met. As you know, it is an effort shared by all Basque institutions and with all agents. A strategy that has concrete measures for young people, yes, as a shock plan, but also runs away from the mistake of trying to confront their needs with those of, for example, those over 45 years of age. Because the objective of creating decent employment, with decent wages, with labour rights, must be the cross-cutting axis for all employment policies. But all of this they already know. They know that, because we have told them in the replies they have received from the Government. You know that, because Vice-Lehendakari told you when you questioned her, precisely to talk about job insecurity. And they are also aware that this is not a mere declaration of intent, because these commitments have been quantified, and, for example, the Youth Employment Shock Plan is specifically valued at EUR 162 million in investment for this legislature. That is why, because you already know that this government has put itself to work with concrete commitments and with a desire to add, it draws my attention to the fact that on the many occasions I have approached EH Bildu to reach an agreement on this matter, always, always, always, I have met with a "no". A "no" to try to agree a compromise amendment. You can't come here to throw a rally like you threw us and say that these chairs can't be used to keep job insecurity in our system when you're unable to try to reach an agreement to try to prevent that from happening. Can we come here to release rallies to this Parliament without calling for agreements? We understand you don't. And I'm sorry, because other groups, we can for example, and also the People's Party, had shown us their willingness to explore an agreement. And I think there were wieners, as long as they wanted to see each other. Another thing, Mrs. EH Bildu, is that the goal is another, like, for example, looking for the encounter. Ladies and gentlemen of EH Bildu, we agree on the diagnosis, we agree on many of the actions to be carried out, but the truth is that when we put forward a proposal for an agreement we never finished finishing. And I will tell you clearly: I believe that your concern for this matter is as sincere as that which my group and this Government can have, but I miss an exercise in reality, of going down to the sand and overcoming the vertigo of reaching agreements. Because we are ready to count on their involvement so that we can agree on the employment policies that are in our hands, in the hands of the Basque Government. And we have even called on them to be involved also in other areas where they can influence, for example, a new status of workers for the twenty-first century, with the importance of collective bargaining. And we can create opportunities for youth employment, but we will only get it to be of quality if we can involve all institutional, social and political actors. And this is a task of the Government, yes, but also of the opposition. And if we want to do that, if we want to take up the challenge, I think it is important to start from reality, from the stage, knowing that there are things that are being asked that are already being done, and also being rigorous within our areas of competence, and not confusing or trying to raise issues that know that go beyond this Parliament and this government, and focusing on the many things that we can do among all, which, by the way, are not very few. Because I refuse that in debates like these it is about slipping the idea that there are things that could be done from Euskadi, but that there is no political will to carry them out. We have offered them a possible compromise amendment that does not reject any debate and with specific issues. We have offered to ratify the commitments made by this Parliament to promote quality employment. We have offered to urge all institutions, social and economic actors, politicians, in the field of their competences, to establish this objective as a priority axis of action to reduce job insecurity, which mainly affects the groups of the most disadvantaged unemployed, including, as I have said, young people. We have offered to urge all the institutions of the Autonomous Community to continue to develop the instruments at their disposal for the coordinated development of employment policies, including, in particular, the promotion and incorporation of social public procurement clauses in the service of quality employment, social and labour integration, and in favour of equal pay and against the wage gap. Similarly, the development of a financial and fiscal policy in favour of employment and the increase of material and human resources in the Labour Inspectorate. We have offered to urge the Government of Spain to continue, within the framework of the social dialogue, to address the commitment to reach an inter-professional minimum wage amounting to 60% of the average wage, as required by the European Social Charter, the famous EUR 1,200. And this is important, because – as was said earlier – we find it a mistake to try to counter the needs of some workers to those of others. Today we are asked to guarantee a minimum wage of EUR 1,200 for young people who have access to these programmes. They know that, for example, through Lehen Aukera or the support for the 2020 financial year for the recruitment of young people by local entities under the operational youth employment programme, the required minimum annual gross remuneration is already above that amount for graduates, graduates and higher education cycles. But gentlemen of EH Bildu, it's worth 1,200 euros for hiring young people. Hey, what about the older than 35? What about the 40s? What about the 50s? What about the 60s, those nos or those yess? Don't you see how you have to have some consistency? Don't you see how counterproductive it is to counterbalance the needs of some workers with those of others? If we want everyone to have that wage guaranteed, that is through the Minimum Interprofessional Wage, and that debate is through collective bargaining and in another area of competition that is not ours, because establishing a minimum wage of EUR 1,200 exceeds our competences, and you know it, despite your request in this Parliament. Nor can this SMI be established through public procurement, even though they have requested it in other institutions (General Councils of Bizkaia, Álava and Gipuzkoa), and they know it. It's not a matter of political will, and you know it. We have offered to urge the Department of Labour to continue to keep all channels of dialogue open and to incorporate inputs into all plans and the Basque Employment Strategy 2020-2030. And we have offered to urge the Basque Government to continue working on the adoption and implementation of the Youth Employment Shock Plan, including dual training, transition from the educational world, training grants, specific entrepreneurship and self-employment development programmes, local and regional employment plans, and also public employment offers. Well, you have told us that you have not, that you have already reached an amendment with Podemos and that you have already done so. It's just that they didn't even want to talk to us to try to reach that agreement, it's that they didn't want to talk to us. I, gentlemen of EH Bildu, sincerely hope that at some point you will decide to take the glove. You have no doubt that we will try again, but know that in the meantime the world will not stop and we will continue to dump in giving all the solutions that are in our hands to a problem that concerns us all, also you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u8	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians. Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, Congressman, good day to all of you. Our team's always on it, right? The last word is good and bad, and among the worst, well, that which you have sometimes prepared before you tell me, but I will try to add my fragment. We have mentioned several times in this parliament that COVID-19's pandemics have left very serious consequences and are leaving them in our society. It's only to be seen the order of things we have in every Thursday since the legislature was completed, isn't it? They are almost all subjects of Pandemia and its consequences. It is a reality, and we must face this reality with all of us, for that is what society requires; the answers, friendship, actions, and all of us, must be committed to all of us, of course. We believe that 2020-2024 government program is the best example of facing this hard reality, in general dimension, even in the dimensions between institutions and departments. This program rests on three principal principles, one of which is to promote economy and employment. This particular principle, as a particular purpose, sets up the following: To maintain employments, to fight against prevarication and provisionalness, from the genus view, which, in some respects, has a direct connection with the subject we have today, and to animate the economy. As I said, the 2020-2024 government program is the most realistic example of dealing with the disastrous health, socio-economic and productive consequences that the pandemic is leaving us. Therefore, as my colleague Itxaso Berrojalbiz said in her day, who is not here today, but will surely be listening to me, not having this clear is not to read the first page of the government program. The first commitment to this government around the Bureau is to develop a scope program between economic and jobs. And as the Mountain Commander had said in the form of government for weeks, the program was in progress, the resurrect program that was born through the importations of different social and economic agents. To get it started again, we're going by the hand of Europe, which is the root of the "Next generation Europe." The program React Europe, which is within this, makes special reference to the resurrection of the employment. And what challenges does React face? It will provide additional funding for the most important sectors, which will be crucial to laying the foundations for a solid recovery. This will involve investments to support job maintenance, in particular by reducing working time and supporting self-employed workers. The funds can also be used to promote job creation and youth employment measures, health care systems and to facilitate circulating capital and investment support for SMEs. Beraz, aipatu dudan moduan, Berpiztu Europako funtsen eskutik doa. It must be mentioned with this that this program will have 13,250 million budgets for the period between 2020 and 2024. On the one hand, 1,615 million euros will go directly to promote employment, and we have introduced 162 million euros into our amendments, and for the performance of young people who are very important to us. And what is expected of this initiative? To promote 135,000 jobs, create 6,000 new companies, add comercium, hostation, and tourism increase 1,400 million euros, among many others. In the light of all that has been said, let us deepen and make even more concrete. This framework programme which we discussed introduces as an initiative the adoption and implementation of a youth employment shock plan which I have just mentioned, with the commitment to provide a first experience to 30,000 young people, which will have as its axis of action dual training, transition from the education world to the world of work, development of entrepreneurship, among many others, programmes to reduce precariousness in employment, especially in the youth community. All of this is also included in our amendment. Beraz, argi dago Gobernu honek lehentasun moduan dauzkala gasteak eta beraien etorkizuna, gure etorkizuna. The last quarter of 2020 has been a 35thly dement rate of young men, compared to the previous quarter, less than 6,85 percential points. And compared to the Spanish state, fewer percentage points. We're not satisfied, but, well, this government is going to be doing something right, right? This data does not go up and down alone, there is a work of institutions following it, there is work of jobers, and also because there is labour in labour. It was in November that you introduced the marriage of young people who were very important to you. You said today it's not important. Maybe because the rate has changed because it's down and you don't want to confess that you're not interested in it, do you? In this EukMU program, 30,000 young men will be given the opportunity to have their first experience of work, with the challenge of total unemployment at 10% down. Therefore what has been repeated over and over again from the suggestion of a party is, that is, many words and few actions, you have said to-day. I think it's obvious that there are actions, even if they don't like them. You used to say, "No less alarm and more solutions," the day you interjected the Mountain Chief, and you said it today. Your interactions don't stop sermons today? Speaking, but considering all these initiatives from the government, Mr. Rico told you, he wanted to make an agreement... zero. You know very well that we have always had the whole idea of coming to an agreement with you on the side of the government, but from the beginning it was your desire to leave you out of the way. Here we have mentioned more than once, clásicos de ayer y, últimamentte, continuos en todo lo que respecta an un acerdo con los grupos que apoyamos al Gobierno. Es más freckil bellare a este atril y hacer un discurso destivo... That question is very simple, which I can do as well. But Mr. Rico told you, we've never seen an engagement or an effort to make an agreement. We'd like to all of us to get out of these four walls from one day to another, and the decisions we make here have a direct influence, but unfortunately it isn't, and they have their own process. Even more when we're at pandemia and the pandemia itself is the mark of time. However, this does not mean that this or that this government is not concerned with young men. I think it has been evident what engagements are in these specific parts. And they are not words, because in the presence of words actions are formed. The President himself spoke the words in the sodium: "Haremos lo que lack paraminer todo el empleo possible y recuperar todo el empleo perdide." Another commitment, too. You said that in your interpelation to your chief department, November, young people are robbed of their chances. Do you think that it is to take off the possibilities that I have mentioned and will not repeat what I've been telling you about? Or offer you options? You saw what the data said. The intervention of the institutions will also have the meaning, but when the data isn't in our interest, all is settled. I would like to think that we all agree when we say that we are favorable to worthy employment and quality; but in many cases, considering the dispositions of different parties, I am seized with doubts. However, I would be grateful to Monsieur Rico from here with the other parties, especially with the suggestion of a party, in order to arrive at an agreement, but, as we see, it is not possible to do so today, and, well, to see if we can succeed in another. That's all. And thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Myst. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. What is evident is that it is frankly difficult to be young at the present time. Youth is limited, directed and formed by a political regime that wants to mark with an absolutely firm and tyrannical step the rhythms of their lives. From the Administrations, young people are constantly told what they should think, what they should feel, what they should do, even to the language in which they should speak. There is also a paradox that young Basques are, despite living in the richest community in Spain, some of the hardest to get ahead of: unemployment is over 20%, wages are laughable and time is on the order of the day. The truth, however, is that our society faces two major challenges in the not too distant future: on the one hand, the replacement of the baby boom generation, which leads civil and political society in our present and which must be progressively relieved by the coming generations; on the other hand, the demographic winter, because without children, without young people, the future will be senectud. Addressing these issues requires our full efforts to help young people. They are, of course, the solution. And with this I want to say the following: let us focus our resources on ensuring two things: quality employment and emancipation. And it is that Councilwoman Artolazabal said the other day that young people emancipate at the age of 30. That's as much as saying they don't emancipate. But how are they going to emancipate if they have to pay an average of 600 to 1,000 euros per month of rent and they charge, basically, that? How are they going to emancipate if they have to give 20% of the entrance to a floor? And given the prices of the Basque Country, we talk about having to be able to save more than 60,000 euros, not counting the added costs. This is a matter of priorities, and believing that with a youth law the matter is settled, we are in error. The problem is structural and shared with the rest of Spain, to a greater or lesser extent. We have a clear certainty: with bureaucracy this is not solved. Our proposal is to improve access to the labour market, to make our young people more attractive, to encourage their employment by exonerating social burdens on businesses. And we know that once inside the companies, their preparation and dedication will do the rest. What we cannot do is continue to put obstacles and obstacles on our youth. You are aware that with your policies you have caused our young people to go to work outside, both to other communities in Spain and to other countries. You know that, and in part you've been guilty of it. 57.1% of our young people are willing to leave the Basque Country in exchange for an interesting job. In addition, they are young people who are prepared and with great job training – doctors, nurses, teachers – and we let them escape because of our ineptitude in offering them a plan for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u12	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Ms. Saez de Egilaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u13	Congressman, thank you. I think it's funny that you're telling me that my thing is a political rally. I wonder what yours is. Let's see if we come here to tell stories! I just don't get it very well. We know that the proposition which we have brought to the discussion today is useful, if we agree. You said you didn't agree, so it's not possible for you to have the absolute majority, and we also know that we are conscious of it. The only thing we brought was a proposal to bring forward a massive plan, and you made it clear that you didn't want this mass of plans or this new program, so I made the half-successaling proposal that I had real chance of getting into an agreement with you, because together with Podemos, we know they'd come out for it. All we have done is make a proposition, and we make proposals throughout the legislature. Because being in front of one of the toughest situations he's been living in these past few years, we're talking about taking another direction. If we consider what has been done during the legislation, we are not convinced because nothing changes and that is simply what we mean. Argazkia beti polita geratzen zaizue, baina gauza da betiko leloarekin jarraitzen duzuela, éta hau ére esan nuen lehen, interpelazian, baina ore berriz esango dut; ore badirudi hemen ezin sayla esaldiak errepikatu, baina ez dakit... Kontua da zuek, adibidez, atzo 200 gaste enplegatzeko enplegu-plana egin zenutela, age horri anbiziosa deitu zeniothela. A powerful plan to recover 200 young people from unemployment, 200 young people. I, when I read the headline, thought we were talking about 200 young people from every skialde, but I realized it was EAE. I just didn't give credit, I didn't understand anything. That cannot be called a powerful or ambitious plan. It gives me the feeling that it is very bad when we believe our own lies and we believe that we are suddenly changing the world, and not; from this atrium and from this Government, of course, the world has not changed. Yesterday we also introduced our proposal from the EH Collect to the funds of Europe, and presented a document to them. And that's why we say, for us, that today's proposition is in the way, too. We're talking about setting other programs up, and you've somehow forgotten what we're saying, because you don't sit down to talk to us. And it seems to us that you've left it to one side of what we're talking about and completely forgotten. We too have met a no every time we wanted to agree on something, every time we introduced something. Yeah, that's it, that's it. We say that yours is only statements, and that is what we saw in the amendments you made to us. And that instead of words we want concrete facts, concrete facts. And when we talk about 1,200 euros, 1,200 euroko soldier ari garanean, gasteez ari gara, gaur iruditzen zaigulako zaurgarrietarikoa den kolektibo bat dela gaur egun, eta gasteria irakurtzen ari dela kolektibo zaurgarri bat bezala, hala dellako, baisa iruditzen zaigu gasteriari lehen lerro hori eman behar zaiola. Bath 1.200 euro spent at the age 1.200 euro self-absorbed daden guztientzat. 1.200 euro oinarrizko soldier bezala persona guztientzat bizitza duinak aurrera serateko. The gaur bath is waiting for the station. Gazteez hitz egiteak gaur ez du esan nahi beaste kolektiboez, basteez, ahazten ari garannik. Of course, hori siteak, pixka bat, iruditzen zaigu ez duela logika gehiegirik. Benetako jump kualititabo bat emateaz ari ginen gaurkoan proposesen honekin, egingarria dellako, batha zuen ustez "No touch". It doesn't touch because you don't want to, because you rule with an absolute majority, and I think it's wonderful that you rule like this. It can be done, but do not say later that no concrete proposals are made from the opposition, because we have brought them. Possible from the Egyptian horrella, gobernatzea horrella, bath guretzat nahiko itsussi geratzen from the gobernatzea horrella eta oposizio guztia alde will beat ustea momentu ore. Izugarrizko garrantzia hartzen ari da gaste-prekarietă, eta, devido, guk hor jarri nahi dugu fokua, kezkatuta gaudelako. And we're not the only ones who say that. And we are not the only ones who say that the youth employment programmes put in place by this government do not bear fruit either. The newspapers say that every Sunday, every Saturday, every day. And don't blame the pandemic on what happens to you as capitalists. Y, Dede luego, coaborar y confrontar... "Nosotras hemos vendi a colaborar, pero confrontamos con la precaridad." It's our daily life. This is our system. And you, it seems, want to co-operate with the system, and if you want to go on with it, it will be. We've brought this proposition that's capable of doing it. You said no. All right, but we've been willing to do it for other times, and you've always said no to us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Together the Podemos-Betweener. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u15	Well, beyond the debate on what the negotiations are like or the will of each other to reach agreements, which, of course, my group is always part of the will, another thing is that we have to be realistic and sometimes it is not possible because we have to go down to concrete, and that is why it seems to me that the interesting thing would be to go down a little bit to concrete things in the initiatives. I believe that there is a part of the argument that Mr Rico has used where he has made a little trick, when you confront generational interests following an initiative that is explicitly aimed at job insecurity in the youth world. The initiative wasn't ours. We have made an amendment to the whole, then we have negotiated, but we have also focused on youth job insecurity, because that was the title of the initiative and that was what we were talking about. And when an initiative is brought or proposed to any group an initiative, in this particular case, it seems to us that it is a trap to pretend to see that the interests of young people are being contrasted with the interests of other generations who, in fact, also have problems of precariousness in the labour market, especially specific groups such as the long-term unemployed, over 55, etc. I think there's a bit of a trap there, and I don't think it's anyone's intention to counter those interests, because in the end the interests in this case are class interests, they're the same. You also mentioned, Mr. Rico, the shock plan. You know that in our amendment to the whole we would urge you to bring that shock plan. We didn't propose a different one; I suppose you would agree. We did include some elements about that shock plan, how we understand it has to be with regard to objectives, with regard to qualitative and measurable quantitative objectives. And you've talked about the millions that are going to dedicate to that shock plan, 162 million. Of course, but my question is not so much how much but how, which is what I think these kinds of initiatives are looking for. Because if we are talking about not financing precariousness, the important thing is not so much the amount of money that goes into these plans, but how these plans are implemented. And that's why we were taking concrete measures and that's why I was talking before concrete. That I know that with some of them they do not agree, and hence also the impossibility of reaching an agreement, in this case at least, with my group, because there was will. I mean, when we talk about salaries of 1,200 euros, it's not because we come up with a magic word; the figure, you know perfectly well where it comes from. What we say is that in contracts that come from public funding – because these contracts are made with public funding – minimums must be established to guarantee that quality. And the quality of jobs is not just about wages, but wages are a very important part, and especially for young people, because of the problems they have – there has been talk here about emancipation, about access to housing, etc. – wages are a very important part. And it seems to us that in any subsidized contract, in this case for youth, setting that minimum of 1,200 euros is important. You have made reference, Mr. Rico, to the fact that for most categories – I don't know if you have said in the Lehen Aukera plan – you are already above that salary. That's true, but for the lower categories, for certain levels of education... yes, for the lower, it's not above that 1,200 euros. And it should be. For us it should be an essential requirement, because the public funding of these programmes for each specific contract is very important. It is that more than a third of that salary is being paid by the public administration in these programmes, more than a third, and therefore seems to us to be a sufficient condition for setting minimum requirements for quality in these jobs. If we cannot influence the quality of jobs that are financed directly from the public, how are we going to end the precariousness in the labour market beyond these plans? You've talked about the Reactivate plan. I was able to read it this morning in the paper. I do not want to make you ugly, but I have to tell you that I think this model is exactly the one that we should not defend. 1 million euros, 200 jobs, wages of seven hundred and peak euros... It seems to us that this is not the model. Although the objective is to integrate into the labour market, the conditions have to be fixed, because there has been a total abuse in recent years, in addition to all types of recruitment and policies aimed at integrating young people into the labour market, and training contracts, scholarships have been abused, and many companies use such contracts simply to have cheap workers. And it seems to us that that is where policies and concrete measures need to be turned. That is why we were taking concrete steps in our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u16	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Euscala Popularo-Ciudadnos's representative. Mrs Garrido from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u17	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, I'm gonna do it from the seat and I'm gonna be short. I believe that the Basque Government must reflect, but that it does not last very long, and, of course, move on to action now. I was saying that the reality of young Basque women and young women is worrying, and, above all, because in the current scenario they do not see the opportunities they could see, also taking into account certain actions of governments. I am going to address the Basque Government – because, obviously, we are constantly urging it with our initiatives to the Basque Government, as I think it corresponds to it –; having the data of the EPA, I have given official data of the EPA, how the percentage of youth unemployment in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country in 2020 ends up with a point and a half higher than the other autonomous communities, to the national average (40.45% and 42.68 %). We were the fourth autonomous community with this data; ahead of us were Canary Islands, Extremadura and Andalusia. I therefore believe that it is now urgent to put measures on the table, and these measures are undoubtedly subject to a shock plan which must be the absolute priority of this Government at this time and, above all, to reconsider certain programmes in relation to the promotion of youth employment. I think we also have a problem with talent, a structural problem in Euskadi with the young people who are leaving, who see more opportunities outside, not only in the other countries of our environment but also in other cities in Spain. On the other hand, what cannot be done is that we have a Basque employment service that is not a reference for young people. The vice-counsel in the previous parliamentary term said that the Basque employment service was not at all a reference for young people, and I think it is something we cannot afford. And that when we are always looking at skills, I would ask this government to focus on the skills we own, on specific tools we have to put them at the service of employability and, in this case, at the service of the employability of young Basques, at the same time as the rest of the unemployed, but today we are talking about youth unemployment. I believe that we could have reached an agreement, at least by leaving aside partisan considerations and, above all, on two issues: in urging the Government to already draw up a youth shock plan, to implement it with specific measures, and also to review or strengthen existing programmes. I think that would have been a good example and I think that the young people would have looked with satisfaction at that agreement. This time it has not been possible, and I hope that at another time such agreements can be reached. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u18	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Saez de Egilaz, I agree with you that sometimes there are people who believe their own lies. Yes, I agree with you. He says we said no. No, no, If you haven't given us the chance, you haven't given us the chance! When this initiative has been discussed, we have waited for you as a proposing group to contact us. Good. But we came from previous jobs, that must also be said. We came from a motion, a consequence of interpellation, in which you and I had spoken and in which, even, well, I think there could be some basis of understanding that I appreciate, that I appreciate. But, of course, it turns out that in this move on the motion of appeal – which I advise everyone who reads – you were telling us "social clauses, to boost the instruments that public administrations have in place to develop policies linked to the principle of promoting quality jobs", you were telling us about "the option of setting a minimum wage of 60% on average of the country's wages, as required by the European Social Charter", and, curiously, when we approach positions and they are reflected in the same amendment – which I told you we have offered – that motion sleeps the dream of the righteous and plants a PNL with another position. Socialists don't change our minds every 10 minutes; I don't know EH Bildu, but we with serious things, with people's eating things we don't change our minds every 10 minutes. I think this is a funambulism exercise and I think it gives them absolute vertigo to agree, but it's the best they can do to solve problems. And I tell you, I'll try again, I'll try again. But please don't say we told you no, that's a lie; we didn't tell you no, and you know it. You have moved me that I had an agreement with Podemos, with whom, by the way, I had spoken to tell him that we were going to wait for you to get in touch with us to try to reach an agreement on the basis of the motion resulting from the inquiry, and Podemos – I have to admit – said that it could be interesting and that we could enter. Because it is not true that we did not reach agreements with the opposition. I, with Podemos, have very important agreements on decent employment. The Basque Socialists have reached agreements with Podemos for decent employment. Socialists and Basque Nationalist Party. It is you who are constantly telling us no. And for the dance to take place, it takes two people. They also told me "trap." Well, I, when I talk about the need not to confront it is because I have a thought done, which I think you share, and it is that giving a quality job requires decent wages. And the best way, the only way, to get to those decent wages is through the interprofessional minimum wage, which affects all workers. And I think you share it. At least Yolanda Díaz shares it... [[He's shown a document.]] Minister Yolanda Díaz shares this; she's not from my party, she's from hers. And, of course, I think it's important to see what things they collect in the initiative, in the agreement they have reached, that I'm surprised that in some things we may have entered. I am surprised, for example, at a term that I have not yet understood, especially when I heard him say something that I share, that the agreements are improved by trade unions through collective bargaining. But here you have a collective agreement that is typical of youth. I don't know what that is, I don't know if they're asking governments to replace trade unions, and I don't know, really, if it's interesting to deal with a youth convention. As I also think it would not be interesting to deal with a convention just, for example, for women, would it? It's not like that! And I'm surprised you guys came in. But there's something else that surprises me even more. Mrs. Saez de Egilaz calls me "facts." They tell me that, if we cannot influence from hiring to avoid job insecurity including, for example, this issue of the 1,200 euros, what we can do. Well, I'm going to go to the facts, very quickly. Because if this is a political will, I imagine you will have it where you rule. Well, I've gone to Galdakao's public procurement, but I've gone to a few more municipalities. I've collected all the contract papers from the Galdakao City Council, where you govern, and the working conditions. Do you mention 1,200 euros in any of them? [[He showed some ID.]] None. Interprofessional minimum wage or collective agreement. And this I had already lived. And when I lived at the General Councils of Bizkaia, we couldn't rule in any town hall. But now we can rule in Durango along with EH Bildu. And we did the same exercise. [[He showed some ID.]] Public procurement of the municipality of Durango, all revised in recent months, thanks to the Public Procurement Portal of Euskadi. You can access any citizen. Is this political will? Where is then the political will of Podemos and EH Bildu including the 1,200 euros in public procurement? They know it's not political will! They know that through public procurement the minimum inter-professional wage of EUR 1,200 cannot be imposed!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u20	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u21	I'm done, President. Thanks to the work we can do here, problems can be solved. The problem is when you come here to drop rallies without any calling for agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u22	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians. Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u23	Thanks again. Well, apart from rallies, sometimes some stories we've heard too; some not to sleep, but stories we've heard too. Well, I want to say that it's really a shame for me not to want to tell you about us, we've been out of line from the start. But it's a shame because I think we could agree on some points. And from the beginning, as Mr. Ricco said, "Es que no hemos dicho que no!" You know, I'm not a siquiera hemos tenide opción decir sí, no o todo lo contrario! We didn't have a chance. Mr. Rico said, too, and you see what happens in the councils where you're running, don't you? Well, I'm not going into public and public contractations, but you see that this government is asking for something and then another thing is done in other places, right? For instance, más hazhos, unidentiedom a Galdalao, Durango... Maás hazhos, not going farther in my country, three quarters from here, to go up. In the country where EH Collect rules, governordom con mayoría abulutísima, como nsostros aquaí, vostros allí. I'm gonna help you run the funding game: zero. This is not excelcia, no: zero, zero. Yeah, that's right. We're asking you to build a contract to promote massive contracts, but where you're running, you're not gonna be so important in the government's subsidies, you know? Not just this year, but two years ago, you've been there since 2017: zero. Amazing. And we proposed in the Plunctian and the negotiation of the ancients, in view of the situation in which the country and the people are to be invested. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Sometimes we forget things we're not worried about. However, as you turn back from the oar and come back here, you have a number of conditions and executions in your middle-way: An endless contract, a collective contract, a minimum salary of 1,200 euros, but, well, of other questions, I can't imagine how you would like me to realize it. Let's talk about it, but how. And one more thing, who are you asking for this MIFO? Here or there? For here it is not debated, here or there, here or there, down here. So what you're asking for here, I don't know what to ask for under the cross-examination and not the bank that's in it or the bank that's in Madrid. You know what I think that is? That's what you said earlier, to condemn young people to false hopes. This is, as Mr. Rico has said, because you know that all you have put into it is impossible to fulfil. And you know it. And therefore I think it is to make false hopes in young men, especially because young men and many other collective people in a very difficult condition require us to keep our legs on the ground, and to be sensible. So as the paper can take anything, well, we'll write a letter to Olero, but that's not the commitment to the agreement and the commitment to progress. That's all the scholarships that Red M.M. makes to promote work, all the programmes, that's what I'm talking about. It's not all I read about writing on paper. You said, "Take a nice picture." Well, it's very pretty, isn't it? Very nice photos. And besides, some of your party likes it. Ask him, he's not here, but he liked him because I got a message or two and he liked the pictures. I think it's prettier than taking a good picture here and making a "brindis al solo," don't you think? Pues, well, maybe nos passa por capitlists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. Mrs Martínnez mustn't speak. So, after the discussion, we're gonna vote for EH, and together we're gonna vote for the middle-line correction that's signed by the United Podemos-Emokers. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters are 27; the contrary, 48; the abstations are 0; white, 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u25	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. Next, we'll vote for the whole of the Basque Groups of Populars. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly are 43; the votes are 75; the supporters six; the opponents are 68; the abscesssion is 1. white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u26	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. And in the end, we will vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and of the Euccanists. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly are 43; the votes given, 75; 41; the contrary, 27; the abstainments 7; white ones; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u27	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. We shall examine the third point on the subject's list after SCRIPTURE: "The Moment, introduced by Cardinal Barrio Barroja, the popular group of the Ciudadans, in the neighbourhood of the Museum of Fine Arts in Bilbo. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Barrio, representative of the Basque Popular Groups of Ciudadans, has the word to present and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u28	Good morning, Madam President. Thank you. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Well, let's get back to the issue of expanding the Bilbao Museum of Fine Arts. This enlargement, which you have heard of, the expansion of this magnificent, extraordinary gallery of classical and contemporary art, for it has raised some debate, it is raising some legal debate in different sectors, in addition to the defence of the cultural heritage in Bilbao, isn't it?, in addition to what we are going to talk about, what are legal reports or technical reports. The project of the architects Norman Foster and Uriarte points to an intervention beyond a simple reform in relation to what we have attended and seen, right?, regardless of the steps that have been taken. In these decisions, in connection with this enlargement, reports from the Bilbao City Council and other institutions – fundamentally, on the city council and its plans – are moving. And there's a debate on reports right now. There is a report prepared by Azkarate, Azpeitia and Chamber, which is the external report, taken by the Basque Government, by the institutions, the Bilbao City Council, and, well, as we recalled, is the report prepared by the Monuments Commission of the Academy of San Fernando, which says that the project does not respect the Heritage Law. Of course, that lights up red lights, because a project drawn up by a technical commission of these characteristics, which says that something does not comply with a law, has to draw our attention. We have tabled a motion, which was a result of the inquiry we had with the adviser a few days ago, and we have said in that motion, that it is a simple, clear motion, that the Basque Parliament urge the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy of the Basque Government, in compliance with articles 3.2.f and 7.3 of Law 6/2019 of 9 May of Basque Cultural Heritage, to make its own report, mandatory and binding in relation to the Special Urban Management Plan for the project of expansion and reform of the Museum of Fine Arts of Bilbao. Well, the law that we recently passed, in the past legislature, but recently, in 2019, on May 9, of Basque Cultural Heritage, in article 3, competence area, as far as the Basque Government is concerned, establishes in point f "To carry out the previous mandatory report on the rules and plans that affect Basque cultural heritage". Well, that's what we're talking about. And that's our motion. We will, of course, vote in favour of the amendment by the Elkarrekin Podemos Group, which sets a time limit of 60 days, and in that sense it is fully acceptable, of course, on our part. And why are we presenting this motion? Well, we discussed the interpellation with the councillor and this, the councillor, took the steps taken in the process of contesting the reform and expansion of the Museum of Fine Arts in Bilbao, and also took the report taken by his department for good, which at the time was answered by other reports, in addition to allegations, by certain public debates through citizen platforms and even by appeals to the courts at this early stage of starting with that enlargement definitively. Well, that draws our attention, and that is why we want to continue in this area of legal certainty. And I don't know if we're going to feel more champions of the law, but we do want to shed light on this issue. The Councillor has taken the steps he has taken well, but we understand that there are doubts about these steps and we want to resolve them, we want to stay out of the controversy on this issue as well and we want to put ourselves above it. We understand that we must shed light on the Agravitas project – so called the proposal of the architects Foster and Uriarte on enlargement – we want to shed light on whether that, as some collectives specialists in architectural or urban issues have said, violates certain articles of the Basque Cultural Heritage Law. That is what we intend to do in relation to this issue. In addition, this motion clings to what we have asked the Basque Government – and some other group has also done so – the opinion on the report of the Royal Academy of San Fernando, and it has not thought, has not answered, has told us that it does not value this subject. I believe that there can be valuable, opinionable and responsive elements, of course, in the legal debate that it raises. And we do think that it is necessary to answer some questions that remain behind these important legal doubts that have been raised. And not only are the answers in the monosyllables of the Department of Culture to Mr. Estarrona's questions, right?, today the answers have to go beyond and have to be fulfilled and carried out, in fact, that work that remains pending of article 3.f that I mentioned before, of the Basque Cultural Heritage Law, an important law that we passed the last legislature and that established a new way to ensure the proper fulfillment of the defense of the cultural heritage on this land. In that sense, it seems that there are doubts, and we, what we want is to clear them. We are parliamentarians who present this motion before this disagreement between the report on the expansion and reform of the Museum of Fine Arts of Bilbao, assumed by the City of Bilbao, by the Basque Government, and the serious discrepancy of the technical report of the Royal Academy of Fine Arts of San Fernando, also the civic platform constituted by many architects and other relevant figures linked to the culture, economy, etcetera, of Bilbao. That is the approach in these two areas, which go beyond a platform that will even be able to assist the courts and clarify some claims there. Well, we also intend a previous step and know, to give birth if we can and if we can. The important thing has been put on the table, and is the possible violation of the Law 6/2019, of 19 May, on Cultural Heritage, in several of its articles. And that's why the simple motion that you're asking for is a report to the Basque Heritage Centre on law enforcement, a report on an action that is planned to be made and offers doubts. A report that has not been made by the Department of Culture, in particular by the technicians of the Basque Cultural Heritage Centre, since what has been done has been to assume an external report, which is not what is established from our point of view and from the analysis made by other experts in the Basque Cultural Heritage Act for these cases. A report which has to be binding and which has to be carried out for this type of action does not bear the signature of the technical officials of the Heritage Centre and which we believe is very important when there is such an impact on the cultural heritage with this enlargement. And, in that sense, the report prepared by the Monuments Commission of the Royal Academy of San Fernando is there, there it is as an expert element, talking about an issue that affects the cultural heritage. In the report of the Royal Academy, it is categorically stated that the Agravitas project is not against one, but against several of the articles of Law 6/2019, it is clearly stated in its report. The report states that, in its view, the following articles, which, on the other hand, not only contradict but also specify and develop the contents of article 39 of the Spanish Historical Heritage Act, in other words, in addition to violating that law, mentions the violation of article 34 of the Basque Cultural Heritage Act in relation to the general criteria for intervention on immovable and movable cultural property included in the Register of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country of the Basque Cultural Heritage. 34.4, which establishes as the basic principle of action the minimum indispensable intervention, an issue that is discussed in relation to the project and therefore believes that this article has been breached; 34.5, in relation to which interventions will respect the additions of other times that survive in the good and provide information on the evolution of the same, and also understands that article 34.7 is violated, in relation to which the additions that are authorized must respect the harmony of the whole, another of the issues with which it disagrees in the final elaboration of the project. With regard to article 49, which states that "the environment of immovable cultural property protected by this law is constituted by the space and by the elements within it, whether or not they are close, which may affect the cultural values of the property and its enhancement", the Royal Academy understands that this article is being violated. In the same way as it does with Article 50, in relation to the prohibition of installing elements that originate – another issue that is much debated in the defence of the cultural or environmental heritage – visual or acoustic pollution. He understands that article 50 is violated, which speaks of the prohibition of the installation of elements that cause visual or acoustic pollution on cultural property, and says that article 50.1 – which understands that it is violated – that "For the purposes of this law, visual pollution means any interference that generates an invasive perception of a protected cultural property, preventing, hindering or distorting its contemplation and degrading its contextual values". This is said by the Royal Academy, as well as experts who are part of that platform have shown. Faced with this confrontation between this report of the Royal Academy of San Fernando, which is the artistic institution with the longest history and greatest cultural force in Spain and official organ, which has been pronounced on numerous occasions, and the report adopted by the director of Culture of the Basque Government, carried out in an external way to the Basque Heritage Centre, we understand necessary this agency that we try to do in the motion that I have previously presented to you. These are the issues that surround a controversial decision today; we have the instruments and therefore we are trying to apply them here in Parliament on a law that we ourselves, some of us here, have debated and which this Parliament finally approved, and we have the instruments necessary – I say again – to give light, to give legal light, to give legal light, to be urbanistic light, to be cultural light, to be citizen light. Everything indicates that there will be another phase of action in the process to be judicialized. We see that there can be a possible solution to an architectural conflict in relation to the Museum of Fine Arts in Bilbao in a technical report with all these background of which we have spoken, of which public opinion has at its disposal. That is why we understand that the preparation by the technicians of the department and the technicians of the Heritage Center, the specialists, could be a good formula to see how the law is actually complied with. Not a simple voluntarism of "Is the Law Fulfilled? Yes, it's done." No, no, What about the articles referred to? Where's that discrepancy? Why does it come true? If the museum needs an extension, of course, it must be done well. You have to do it right. It must be done well, legally, because of its impact on the general plan, on urban planning in Bilbao and on other issues that we have already discussed. And that's what a museum of those characteristics has to do. We have said that the Museum of Fine Arts is a cultural jewel that the Basques have, that the Bilbaos have and that it has the universe because of the importance of their collections and the importance of their history and their development in recent decades. There it is, isn't it? Then it has to be done well. And, then, what needs to be done is that, or clear up doubts about the current project, the one that is approved in principle, or that the law, if not complied with, or other projects or projects of discontinuous headquarters. But, well, all those issues are on the sidelines, but let the law be enforced, because, if not, there will be problems. It is quite clear that this is our position. The amendment by the groups supporting the Government is completely in the opposite direction. It goes in the direction – good, normal, right?, at this first moment – of the advisor's opinion, but we see serious doubts. Well, there's the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u29	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, represent the Podemos Group. Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u30	Darkness is a historical current, from the history of art, where great contrasts between light and shadow can be seen very forcefully. Well, in the architectural project that Agravitas has presented to us, we see more shadows than you can see in its realization. The initiative that has been brought to plenary today does not question the aesthetic value or the needs of expansion of the museum; what is being questioned here is the legality of how the award has been made, as well as whether the architectural project meets the administrative requirements to be carried out. The first thing that draws our attention to in this contest is the way in which the project was awarded to the study of Norman Foster and Uriarte; it seems to us that there is some inequality in the treatment, because in the patronage of the museum was one of the people who then belonged to the jury, and can not be judge and part at the same time. There's no equal treatment on this jury. Subsequently, the winning project was exposed to the public, as the advisor said well in the inquiry, and was exposed to the public during the month of August and September, which comes to be "apostosity" and awe. And during this period there was no process of gathering opinions, suggestions, and at no time has public debate or the search for other opinions other than those already established been encouraged. To these initial doubts must be added the report prepared by the Commission for Monuments and Heritage of the Royal Academy of San Fernando, which warned about the irregularities of the project and warned us that it violated articles 34, 49 and 50 of the new Basque Cultural Heritage Law, violations that the Basque Government seems not to care about. We are talking about a building that was declared an artistic historical monument in 1962. Then, in 1985, well of cultural interest. With the transfer of competencies, in 1990, he was named qualified cultural well. And with Law 6/2019, the most novel Heritage Law, has been considered well special protection, which is currently the highest degree of protection that can be given to a real estate. At the same time, the Bilbao City Council, in its urban planning plan, has catalogued the building with special protection A, and the park, as an integral conservation package, affecting it also the previous regulations, which is the maximum protection that the city council can give to a work. For, despite all that mentioned, the winning project, Agravitas, intends to place a 7,500 square meter hat over the old museum, completely distorting the image of the building. It is more than obvious that the concept and motto of the competition (enlargement and museum reform) are not fulfilled at all. This project is not an extension in the architectural sense of the term. The enlargement proposal occupies 68% of the useful area of the current museum, i.e. it is a new building. This extension exceeds the alignments of the facade and exceeds in all parameters of volume, length and height that of the current building. Therefore, under no circumstances can it be admitted that this is a minimal intervention, as stated in section 34.4 of the Heritage Act. Inside there are also quite a few alterations. The entrance is altered, the wardrobe is altered and rooms 16, 17, 18 and 20 are also altered, which also goes against article 38 of this law, which says that only enclosures, partitions and carpentry can be operated. And this is where we come to the amendment, to the initiative put forward by the People's Party, which is about Article 47, which says that for all these reforms we will have to have "a favourable report from the department of the Basque Government responsible for cultural heritage. Such a report shall be mandatory, binding in the determinations relating to such goods and shall be issued within two months." And I wonder: do we have these favourable reports from the Basque Government? This competence is irrefutable, that is, the legislation obliges the issuing of these two reports, urban and environmental, both of which are essential for the approval of the special plan needed for the above-mentioned project. As far as the outside of the heritage good is concerned, as Mr Barrio has already mentioned, there are also quite a few changes. According to article 49, the environment of protected cultural property is distorted. And, according to Article 50, we have visual contamination. And this happens because the architect has projected a facade of 15 meters – they are more or less the distance that this room has – that goes out over the park. This is not only against the law (in this case Articles 49 and 50), but also against the technical conditions of the competition itself, which established that only urban intervention could be made here. Outside too, among the various ornamental and sculptural elements that surround the perimeter of the Museum of Fine Arts is the monument to Arriaga, by Paco Durrio, which is an art-deco sculpture, of 1933, and which was made by public competition. Quite the contrary to this intervention, which was by an appointment of an invitation to some architects and among them was chosen one. This sculpture, in the current project is integrated within the museum itself, and to us this seems like a mutilation of public space. On the one hand, public space is lost and what was an open square becomes a closed space that, however glass we put in, remains a privatization of public space. And, on the other hand, the daring is such that the character of the source of the work is totally distorted, because both the pond and all the symbolology of the water that carries paired are eliminated. It is as if to the sculpture "Gernika" we remove the pieces from the tree of Gernika, we put oak that looks and externally it will look the same, but all the symbolology has been eliminated. And after this tour, and having seen all the shadows of this project, we ask again the Basque Government, and in this case the members who support the Government, if we have the favorable report of the department of the Basque Government competent in the field of cultural heritage, which will have a mandatory and binding character, which must be drafted by the technicians, architects and architects of the Cultural Heritage Center. Because, what good is it to us to have laws and to establish categories if the people we have to defend these laws do not? In this project we see a clear political, tourist and commercial will, covered with a cultural intention. It is the use, once again, of culture to make politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u31	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Basque Socialists. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u32	Ladies' chief, chief of departments, good morning to all. Well, I believe that today's debate is in no way intended to question the importance of the Museum of Fine Arts as a key piece in the dissemination of our culture and identity throughout the world. I believe that this is an issue on which we all agree, all the groups that we make up this House. Therefore, serve these first words to highlight the great work that the Bilbao Museum of Fine Arts has been doing in its centuries-old history. And, if I may, I would also like to take the opportunity to make a special mention of the boldness and correctness of the current direction, with a bold bet on placing the museum at the forefront of international museum. On this point, I would like to divide my intervention into two blocks, which I will try to make brief both: one more focused on the administrative procedure and one in which I intend, albeit briefly, to go into the substance of the matter. Because, Mr Barrio, this Member does not intend to circumvent the substantive debate. It is not merely a question of laws and articles; there is some substance, and I would like to reflect, albeit briefly, on it. On the subject, let's start at the beginning. As indicated by the Basque Cultural Heritage Act, the Basque Government presents two reports for the processing of the Special Plan of the Museum of Fine Arts in Bilbao. The first – by the way, to which no one refers – signed by the Professor of Art History of the University of Salamanca, Professor Maite Paliza. The second, which is run by the UNESCO Chair in Cultural Landscapes and Heritage of the University of the Basque Country/Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea and which is signed by Agustín Azkarate – catedrate of Archaeology and director of the Group of Research in Built Heritage of that university – Leandro Cámara – architect and technical director of the Fundación Catedral Santa María – and Arturo Azpeitia, researcher of the Group of Research in Built Heritage, as well as researcher of the aforementioned UNESCO Chair. So the reports have been submitted in time and form, as the law states. It is beyond doubt, moreover, that both reports have been prepared by people of recognized scientific credit. And in the case of the second report, which is so much discussed, by experts whose curriculum is well known beyond the academic sphere, especially in this city, because here, in Vitoria-Gasteiz, their names will always be linked to the great success in the restoration of the Cathedral of Santa Maria. The procedure, once the reports have been submitted, will follow its path until it reaches the plenary session of the City Council on 26 November last year, in which the plan will be definitively adopted. Following the timeline, on January 25, 2021, the San Fernando Academy of Fine Arts presents a report, apparently on its own initiative, questioning the project. That is, two months after the plenary of the City Council had finally approved the special plan, I insist, when the decision was already made. And it is from this moment on that the People's Party is pushing different initiatives, both in the Bilbao City Council and here today, in this Parliament. I insist, even at the risk of appearing pelma: when the decision is legitimately taken and approved by the votes of the majority of the Bilbao municipal plenary. And ending this issue, because it does not seem to me to require much longer either: the decision is legitimately taken. The City Council of Bilbao counted on the mandatory reports in order to be able to position itself with more than sufficient technical criteria. There is no need for a new report. But now I would like to get to the bottom of the matter. A subject that, at least in terms of debate, I have not heard here, because I believe that the bottom line is what we understand by a museum, what we talk about when we talk about a museum. And as the best way to define our words is to go to the dictionary, I have allowed myself the license to resort to the dictionary of the Royal Academy of Language, as well as to the Dictionary of Use of Spanish by Mrs. María Moliner. And making a mix of both definitions I have tried to make the most complete definition possible of what we mean by museum. And a museum is a place where collections of objects or curiosities conveniently placed are preserved and displayed for examination, exhibition and study, for the purpose of conservation, study and exhibition, also serving as an attraction of the public interest for tourist purposes. That's a museum. That is, following the criteria of another of our real academies, it is impossible to separate content and continent. What he does to a museum is the collections that are guarded in it. Perhaps this is why the above-mentioned report by Professor Paliza, which is clear and meridian on this issue, has been cornered throughout this debate. Thus, the indivisible link between museum and collection is not the whim of any archaeologist, it is the Royal Academy of Language that makes these two elements a basic unit. The Museum of Fine Arts that we can see today is in itself a palimpsest in which one can appreciate the different ways in which the public authorities have understood the function of the museum and its interaction with both the city and the citizenry. In other words, what we have before us is the materialization of the different ways in which Bilbao and its inhabitants have understood and lived its museum. A historical evolution that, paradoxically, has ended up cornering the original building, relegating it to a secondary role within the current museum project. Of course, but to understand this it is necessary to assume the indivisibility of the binomial content and continent. I'm gonna try to explain myself. The original building is there, pristine, but the evolution of the museum, the evolution of the museum project throughout the 20th century, what has done has been to go and corner it, separate it and condemn it to a merely secondary function. This is why it is as important to conceive of the museum as the interaction between content and continent. It is not a building, it is a building containing works of art, it contains collections, it contains different issues for its exhibition. The current project, therefore, must be understood, in my view, as a new intervention aimed at adapting the museum – continent and content – to the new concerns that society today expresses about issues such as the environment, social inclusion or economic sustainability. It is, therefore, to adapt our Museum of Fine Arts to the new ways of understanding the functions that a museum must have for a city of the 21st century. It is not a matter of considering the museum as a fossil to be isolated and protected from the passage of time. The museum, its collection, its museum project is a living institution that has to evolve according to our way of confronting and interacting with culture. Let us respect the footprints left by previous generations, but let us allow ours to live with the past, developing their particular vision of what they understand and want to be the museum of their time. I imagine that, once again, we will have a debate for a while, but as we debate, as we debate, decisions must be taken. For 30 years now, we have had a debate similar to the creation of the Guggenheim. It was a long and really interesting debate, but beyond the logical differences, in the end it was three political parties that gave their explicit support to the project: Basque Nationalist Party, Basque Socialist Party and Euskadiko Ezkerra. Today it seems that, once again, we will again be the same ones that we once again bring out of the paralysis by analysis and give the push that the Museum of Fine Arts and the city of Bilbao need. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u33	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians. Mrs. Zuluga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u34	The chairman, the President, the chairman, the congressman, all good days. In the '80s, the rhythmic power of culture, of architecture, of citying, and of environment was a chimerical in this country. Sometimes we seem to want to go back to those times, as if we had learned nothing from them. We question these values again. The great modification which we have acquired as a society and a country has been acquired by the co-worker of the institutions, by means of the private community, and the people of the Basque community, and above all by the view that it is the factor of changing the culture. Culture is a great lever of change, and the Museum of Fine Arts, with its 112 years and a collection of more than 10,000 works – I profit, in more than 70%, from donations and legacies that it regularly continues to receive – is one of the main pieces that our country has to drive that lever. The Museum of Fine Arts is a model of how citizenship, the local artistic community and public institutions shape and grow the museum and its collections. And now, again, you need to adapt your facilities, programs and activities to the museum requirements of Bilbao and the 21st century. You said, Mr Barrio, in your question – and I open quotes – "it seems to point out that it will be an intervention beyond a simple reform." Indeed, a reform and an extension of the Museum of Fine Arts that place us before a unique opportunity to elevate to a new dimension that transcends its current reality this museum space, a space that will acquire a new artistic, architectural and environmental personality, a place for artists and creators and for citizenship. Museum handitzeko eta eraberritzeko proyektuaz ari gara gaur, dazen urteetan Euskadin egingo den kultura-azpiegiturarik garrantzitsuena eta illusionagarriena huta. Art Ederren Museum beti baloratu izan da pinakoteka bikain gisa, éta peuektu berri honek berri history erespectatzen duen begirada bat eskaintzen du, baisa, aldi berian, globala, ingurumenekoa eta abangoardiakoa. Eta hau, zergatik? Because it respects the existing (maintains all the previous constructions and even allows to see in a single image, at a glance, the entire history of the museum with all its transformations, because it recovers what is lost and puts it in value); the main entrance, the original, will again be through the Euskadi Square; because it is mingled with the immediate environment, respecting the vegetal and visual landscape; and because it projects the museum towards the future with new spaces to expose the funds, to investigate, to restore and to educate. Eta hau guzti hau, waverari, hirigintizzari, ingurumenari eta eskatutako administration-prozesu guztiei buruzko araudia egokituta. XXI. mendeko gizartaren zerbitzura dagoen museum bat, age ore inoiz bath gehiago illusionatzen gaituen gure museuma. Bilbo, because of the museum offer, 35 of the most important cities in the world, and the 67% of tourists choose where to go. The Museum of Beautiful Arts is essential to explain these two matters to Bilbo and all the Basques. The Museum of Fine Arts was published in 1945 at the present location, and 1970, 71, 80, 82, 83, and 2000 have made more or less new works and innovations. Since then, this has been the longest period without works, until in 2018 the Museum Board approves the Strategic Plan 2019-2022 and the Master Plan of Enlargement. Space need. The works of current artists and creators require for their dimensions and volumetry other spaces adapted to their size. Need to improve an inner circulation that had become chaotic with so many works, reforms and additions. Need for an atrium or space for events. Today no one understands museums anywhere in the world without this infrastructure, it has become indispensable. The need to connect the two entrances and to accommodate the new Euskadi Square, which will serve as an extension to the Casilda Doña Park of Iturrizar and will make the whole area more friendly for the pedestrian, away from the bustle of cars from the entrance door of the museum, which will once again become the main door. The international successful competition left a winner, a project by Norman Foster and Louis Uriarte, a project of the Agravitas, a famous, professional, prosperous jury, and a peer-friend who had chosen it unanimously. A jury that valued the proposal as technological in its image, humanistic in its approach, ecological in its sustainability and that combines architectural quality, urban sensitivity and social responsibility. An extraordinary project for a magnificent museum, a new architecture that gives a special value to the personality of the organization. This project integrates all the successive works and reforms that have been carried out in the original building and that have limited and constrained it in its functions. And again, as it was on every occasion of the past, it resorts to the most avant-garde architecture to solve all the challenges posed to it. In 1945, 1970 and 2000 the proposals were also the vanguard of the moment. It solves the need for space, integrating the museum into the new space that has been created around it with a transformative architecture that blends and mimics in the environment; a new vision of the museum and a new harmony between history and modernity, which contributes to the greatness of its image. A project resulting from a logical evolution, which respects, like the previous reforms, the time and the museum. The symbolic universe and human creativity are infinite, and it is impossible to contain them in a single, closed and immutable space. Just as human creativity evolves, changes, has no limit, the spaces to accommodate it must also experience these changes and adapt. Pure logic. The transformation is planned by keeping what has already been built in this case, by enabling to distinguish the adjacent growths of the museum, by unproceto que resto que resto el patrimonia existite, aunque realice cambios, y que regabiliums res castodo el patrimonium. Because it can change, renew, update, and respect. The Basque Cultural and Language Department have done all the work due to the Magic Arts Museum in Bilbo, as far as the Regeneration project is concerned, and the necessary reports are required for experts who have a great reputation and a trained professional career, which are the basis of all the methods and activities they have made. The transparency, information, and the previous public show have been preserved in this process. We've all been following, using as many methods as possible, step by step, filling all the landmarks of the project. No one was willing to reproduce the debates we were living with the Guggenheim in their day. They're not easy to forget. But, again, we thank the institutions for their efforts to materialize good ideas with sound decisions and rigorous processes. And we've been deluded, and a lot. The Museum of Fine Arts is 112 years old. It is an extraordinary gallery, with the most relevant public art collection of Euskadi, and it has to solve the challenges posed to it. The bet on the development of the patrician and institutions, and for the international projection, will retain the state of the museum in its own place, where we have placed it among all the agents of this country. He'll unite all the vanguards, the fronts and the present ones. It will be a reflection of our contemporary values. It will encourage our country's economic recovery and restore our country after the damages and consequences of this terrible pandemia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Hole. Passing over to those who have no corrections, the representative of the EH Collector. Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u36	Thank you, Madam President. And good morning to all and everyone. I learned in the Museum of Fine Arts of Bilbo a phenomenon that fascinated me in the painting. This phenomenon is called repentance, in Italian it is called pentimento, and in the case of a youth. As you know, regrets are the changes that artists make in the painting box. I mean, maybe draw a head, then change your mind, and, well, delete it and paint another image over it. The point is, for years, as the picture beneath is lost, the image beneath goes back to life. Sometimes this regret appears as a ghost. There's a feeling like that in the Museum of Fine Arts in Bilbo, very pretty. I can't remember if he's from Arruere or the Bridge, but he's there, see, don't see, a regret like that. It's the head of a person, a regret like a ghost. Sometimes these regrets can't be seen clearly, but with special technology. I also learned that from the Museum of Fine Arts in Bilbo. The local crew is very nice and the restaurant team explained to me the technique of refractology. It's a special kind of thing, and you can see what's under the box with the infrared rays. It's fascinating, very pretty. I remember showing me the picture of a flaming painter, and the rays of these rays showed some of the pictures that artists had drawn, some details that were below them. And then he who later changed them in the last version of the picture. It fascinated me to know what's underneath, what's been there, in secret there. And how sometimes, after years of patience, the lower part appears. I always thought it would be nice if there were any apparatus to see what is under each of us: What are our regrets, which are within us, and what we then decided to change, or what we have. And what to say if we had a technology like that we could control the government! Indeed, it would be very useful to see what lies behind the things it focuses and does, down there. Without going far, I'd like to know what's going on in the project of the Magic Arts Museum itself. In fact, some regrets are beginning to show up. Of course, we're not going to run for the winner of the Agravitas Norman Foster and Uriart project, except Unai Fernandez de Betoño, we're not architects. But as a committee of people, we see some signs of regret about this project. In the first place, it requires a report from the Basque Cultural Department, the local technicians, the officials, that there should be a cultured criteria and no political pressure, no economic pressures. It requires, at least, the law of the Public Government and the law of the Force; this report is a bonder. But to enhance the museum of the Fine Arts of Bilbo, the technicians of the Cultural Department didn't make that report, and if they did, it wasn't public. Like here, I'd like to use radiolthology to find out what's underneath it with the infrared rays. In fact, to put this project in progress, the report that's meant to be introduced, what the technicians have to do instead of them, is now done by an out-of-town team in September. This outer group has been mentioned here as a group of investigators about the estate built in Gibraltar, which connects with the Basque Country and the Timeesco. On the other hand, we do not know by whose orders this report has been made, when, for what purpose, or how much it is worth, the data about it is not public. It is unnecessary to say that this report is very favorable to the successful Agravitas project of Foster's to increase the museum. We'd need some infrared rays to find out what's under there, and why, in a piece of growing up, it wasn't his law and he didn't take any notice of his technicians. But there is more than this: The famous organization of Fernando Pérez Rodríguez-surtia by the architect of Euskal, was Exodus, halberdia de Bellas Artes de San Fernando, a report has been made about the expense and reforming of the museum. That report is very clear. According to the Academy, the project of Norman Foster's Agravitas does not include the Euscal Ondarene Protection Act, a new Law here, in 2019, supported by us in the preprejudicion, and now in full force. In addition to this, according to the academy, the municipal order of Bilbo does not fulfil, or, rather, the winning project did not fulfil. Here also comes repentance. According to the regulations of the City of Bilbo, it's the entire protection building, or it was the Museum of Beautiful Arts. And I say, "go," after the public contest by Foster's, last November, that the municipal regulations have been changed, abolished, and made a new one, without breaking the municipal regulations, that is, instead of adapting the project to the law, they have adapted the law to the project. Even here, we'd need some infrared rays... Well, maybe not here, because it's all pretty obvious. And there's more. We asked the chief physician of Cultura, Mr. Bingen Zupiria, who wrote the report by Real Academia de Bellas Artes de San Fernando, and his answer was: We've received it with respect and read it. We've received it with respect and read it. What's that? That's not what we ask. Of course you've read it! Of course you've read that report. Our question is what they think of a report so smart. What's the point of making such an answer? Don't we deserve respect? And still more: When we ask Mr. Cultural Chief, Bingen Zpiri, whether this project meets several articles of the Euscal Ondarene law, it is answered: "Yes." Just a Monosilabo. No explanation, no justification. Nothing, just a monosyllyon. Is that normal? Is that right? What's underneath all that? Even there, we'd need reflectology. If you think he's doing well, then he's fulfilling the Euskal Power Act, why didn't he make a legal report? Why did he leave it in the hands of an outer team instead of based on the report by technicians? What is hidden under all this? We need light, transparency. It is due to respect for the law which we have received in this legislature. It takes honesty. We need a clear discussion, too: what kind of museum we want for our country; to which we are directed; to what end. This is a popular argument, beautiful, that will make us rich, but above all it must be clean. My God, you're gonna have to fill the Power Law, and he's gonna have to make a record for the great Art Museum of the Union. That's what we're asking for here today. the light and the obedience of the law. There can be no regrets here. Even if they're fascinating in the paints, it's just like the way you're doing it and the underlying behavior must be the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Passing on the answers, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I thank Mr Angulo for his contributions also in relation to the issue before us. You have not given us time in the first part to talk about things of content, where you have indeed entered in relation to important aspects, and, well, I am also grateful for your amendment, which we support. Mr Alonso, I agree with basically everything you have said about museums, about the value of the museum, about the formulas that have to be, the vanguards... I, of course, have not disqualified the report by Azkarate, Chamber and Azpeitia, I have it as something that is there, in the debate, and, of course, if it has been assumed by the government, its value will have and its value has – I am not an expert, so... – and there it is. It only disagrees with another report, and this report has not been of the Academy's own accord, but has been a citizen's initiative, that is, it is important in that regard. That is, that of the times, of course, the decision has been made, then the report is asked for; for, well, normal, because someone has been concerned about some decision that has concerned him and that he has asked for light. I say to you again: completely according to the reflections you have made on the museum and on the collections, content and continent. We know that this debate is there and is evident, but do you think the San Fernando Academy report is relevant? Do you think the serious things you say are relevant? Does that seem relevant to you? Then answer me, please. And Mrs Zuluaga, I, like you, know the collection well, not all, logically, but much, I admire it, I have admired it for many years, I have had the opportunity to go there many times and also to be with the excellent director who has that pinacoteca and to be with the Committee on Culture and to be on my own and enjoy that pinacoteca. That is true, and that is what we want to continue to preserve, of course, for the future. And what you have said in relation to what is happening or what has to be in the reforms, what you have said are opinions, are not legal arguments, are architectural opinions or an artistic or mobility interpretation... I, what I ask of you and what I ask of the House is legal certainty and legal certainty, that's what I ask of you. It is quite clear that an action of these characteristics, an extension of these characteristics, solves problems of space. Of course it solves space problems! That's very clear. Sure! Look at the 16 meters you lift over the 15 that you already have, i.e. imagine the problems of space you solve, or access, or internal communication. Well, but that's not the question, that's not the question, and I ask you the same thing: do you think the report of the Academy of Fine Arts of San Fernando, which says very serious things in relation to what we have an obligation to preserve, in relation to the compliance with the Basque Cultural Heritage Act, is relevant? Those are the issues and the doubts that need to be resolved. Because, look, to attract tourists, you don't have to break the law, and that doubt has to be solved. It can be very striking something that has to be and can be, but first we will clear up those doubts, those doubts that I do not bring to you – that I say again that I am a fan of the Museum of Fine Arts – that are brought to you by the Bilbaos, in this case many, and technicians, and brought to you a report from an expert body; that is the fundamental element. And you mentioned the jury. It's also that things have to be done right. If on a jury there's a member of the Foster Foundation, then it's not right, is it? If the jury that gives the work and the extension to Foster has a member of the Foster foundation, I know it was then unanimously approved, but it's not good. We all have to comply with very strict things. We know in this Parliament that the Bureau of this Parliament has to approve many competitions, it knows the incompatibilities that exist, it knows the issues that must be met, and it draws our attention. In any case, please answer me how do you feel about the report of the Royal Academy of San Fernando regarding the serious things he says and the failure to comply with those articles of the Basque Heritage Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u39	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together, Podemos-The Batter of the Batu. Mr. Angulo from there, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u40	Thank you. Hey, you hear me? Following Mr Alonso's intervention, in which he gave the definition of a museum according to the RAE, I have remembered that for a couple of years ICOM has been discussing a new definition of a museum, and I am going to read it because I do not know it, this one; he says, among other things: "The museums are not for profit, they are participatory and transparent". There is no participation or transparency on this occasion. "They work in active collaboration with and for the various communities." Neither do we have active collaboration here, as there is a civic platform of citizens – architects, in this case – who are not allowed to participate. And then it goes on: "They make, preserve, investigate, interpret, expound, broaden the understanding of the world for the purpose of contributing, dignified to humanity and social justice, global equality and planetary well-being." The definition of ICOM's museum is quite different from how this project has been done and developed. This project has not been done with the necessary transparency, it has not been done openly and clearly for citizens. It needs a report from heritage architects, in this case, in order to move forward. A report has been used that, however prestigious they are Azkarate – who was my teacher in this case, I think yours too, because Archaeology 3 we all gave it –... must be preceptive and prior to starting the project. And in this case we don't have those reports, we don't have the reports that the Department of Culture has to do, in this case. When are they going to be for? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u41	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Basque Socialists. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u42	Yes, he was a professor, I would even dare say what teacher, Mr. Augustine Azkarate. Yes, indeed, the entire faculty passed through him. And I, come on, I don't want to go into that reflection, although it would also be very interesting and it comes to the case as well. Mrs. Agirre... Mr. Barrio, I'll answer you, but let me land; calm, I'll land. Mrs. Agirre was talking about reflexology, wasn't she? The truth is that it is impressive, for anyone who has approached that evolution of how a painter paints, who often seems to do so at once and then discovers that, in fact, he has had his doubts and has had his evolution. It is true that the big difference in this case is that a painting, once finished, and a museum is constantly open, is always alive, because it is something that interacts with the citizenry. Anyway, just as there is reflectology for painting, for buildings – to understand, because buildings are alive and in constant change, so I was talking about palimpsest, which comes to be something similar – there is the archaeology of architecture. By the way, one of the greatest figures of international reference in this matter is Augustine Azkarate. That is, that reflectology, that ability to see the evolution of buildings and their uses throughout history, of which there is also a discipline, and, paradoxically, just one of the greatest references in that matter is the one who was entrusted with the work. Because, in fact, the museum is not the same as the one created there in the first half of the 20th century... It could be the same building, Mr. Barrio, and now I'm answering it. Because I think that is – and it is my impression and it is my opinion, that of this parliamentarian – the difference that we have in the report of the Royal Academy and I personally. And it is that the Academy sees the building as the unit to be protected, but I personally believe that this building is part of a broader museum project, it is something much more complex. We can't just look at the building, because from the middle of the 20th century to the present – I've tried to explain it before too – that museum project, that museum, not that building, has experienced a constant transformation. It has been changing since the academicism of the first half of the twentieth century and that here, well, since we are provinces of extraradio, it lasts us almost until the 70s, it has been evolving, it has been adapting. And that is the evolution that must continue, because it is not a stagnant work as a painting, that once the painter gives it the finality, he signs it and it ends, but it is a project that is alive, because it interacts constantly with the city, with its landscape and with the citizenry. That is my reflection and my response to you, Mr Barrio, on the report. It seems to me that the Academy's report, from the humility of a simple historian, sins of wanting to focus too much on the building, obviating that the building itself is only a part of a content-continent binomial. If you read again, if you read again, the report of the academy, but it changes the objective, changes that vision, and sees it as a museum, as something alive, as a museum project, which is more complex than a building, you will see that in reality those articles are fulfilled, they are fulfilled. They don't come true when we're simply obsessed – and I said that also in my previous intervention – with wanting to fossilize a building, leave it locked, frozen in time and protect it as if it weren't with it. Of course, it can do that with a building, it can do that with a painting, what it cannot do is with a museum, because a museum is doomed to constant interaction with city, landscape, citizenship, etc., etc. So, I – I don't know whether you liked it or not – think I've answered it. And nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u43	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians. Mrs. Zuluga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u44	President andrea. The debate on the reports. The Government has assumed a report, yes. A report by a well-known and well-recognized team that has been involved in other cultural projects and infrastructures in our country, who, as in other reports of this same project, have been asked for analysis and evaluation. Has he outsourced himself? Yeah. It is not the first time nor will it be the last time that the Government and any other public institution do so, something absolutely regular and legal. With regard to the other report, we, as a country and any institution, have laws, regulations, processes and rigorous protocols for any activity, including from how we have to establish and develop a motion or an inquiry here until we make a highway. And in this process of expanding the Museum of Fine Arts, therefore, exactly the same. And the San Fernando report, absolutely respectable, so I am not very clear where it fits into this scheme of protocols and processes to carry out a plan like this forward. The government did, I've seen where they fit in. We can discuss to infinity everything that surrounds the project, a project that has taken its steps with rigor and transparency, but the truth is that the founding institutions and the patronage of the museum, as it was done in the 80s, bet on culture as a transforming engine of economy, urbanism and the environment, and now the Museum of Fine Arts is back on that line. We all know the tractor effect in terms of cultural, economic, tourism and prestige, and reference, which is a museum for a country. Euskadi and the Guggenheim Museum are an emblematic example, a reason for analysis and imitation all over the world. Orrain, Bilboko Art Ederren Museoaren txanda da. Eta beharrezkoa da, nahiz eta batek museak ez duela ezelako handitzerik behar esan; ulertezina, horrelakorik entzun beharra. Zure interpelazian esan zenuen, Barrio jauna – and I open quotes – "We all want you to have the best of the possible futures, it is an important cultural project". You yourself told us, and today again, that you have met with the director of the museum, you have explained to them the steps in relation to the enlargement and the why of that enlargement. Izan ere, aukera paregabe beat aurrean guude. The Department of Culture and the other founding institutions and the Patronage of the Museum of Fine Arts have participated in the reflection and decision-making since 2018, the year in which the Strategic Plan of the Museum is approved, until the approval of the Special Plan of Urban Planning by the Plenary of the Bilbao City Council last November – it is approved –, approval based on the necessary reports, made by recognized and qualified experts. The strategic plan proposes the modernization and expansion of its performance capacity in Bilbao and Euskadi, and defines the needs of the museum: it needs to expand exhibition spaces, propose exhibition programs and activities and an international projection. The architects Norman Foster and Luis Mari Uriarte, and their project Agravitas of reform and expansion, preserve the heritage value of the building and enrich the architectural complex and environmentally transform its environment. The Cultural Department has strictly fulfilled all the actions proper to it, and has demanded necessary public and independent reports, which have been carefully examined and impressed by historical parties, estates, environments, and others. The project fulfils its legality. Let us push forward this project, let us ensure its development, which now more than ever will serve to revive our economy and will also revitalize our country in the wake of the severe effects and consequences of the pandemic. We need illusion and innovative projects that will internationally project the contemporary values of our society and its way of doing so.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Zuluga. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Alonso, we're not discussing the project. What we here question is whether it fulfills the law or not. Therefore, we have no trouble with the first and second point of your correction, but with the third, I would like to know what you plan on it. Regulations, is the procedure to be made above all? Because that's what you're saying. "Garantizar el proyecto en losérinos exactos del Proyecto." That is to say, instead of adapting the project to regulations, leave the regulation aside to continue the projects. The name Agravitas is, indeed, a very proper name, for that is Agravitas: sin gravedad, por enima del bien y mal; y, sobre todo, por encima de la ley es este proyecto. And that's not true. A pesar de que la shape habitu de hacer de algunos, sleeping habitu no quiere decir que sea lo normal. Why haven't you heard that report from the M.M.s? Why? The question is so simple: Why? Why? Because they're afraid not to give that to the M.M.s. job, even if it's the law that's meant to do it? Who's got those reports? How many precedents are there, like that? That's what you have to explain, what regrets there's in there, what a ghost there is. We don't have a machine to see it, but I don't think he'll be able to get out of it by degrees, and that this ghost beneath it is coming out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. After discussion, we'll vote for the original text of Mr. Carmelo Barroja's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 32; the opposites 42; the abstations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u48	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote together for the whole of Podemos-The Batu team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 32; the contrary, 41; the abstations, 1; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u49	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. And finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the U.S.A. patriots in the whole area that the teams present. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 41; the contrary, the contrary twelve; the abstations 21; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u50	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. We'll go to the second point. Second point on the subject list: "The other proposal of Podemos-Edemus as a parliamentary group of parliamentary unions with each other, concerning the general criterion for vaccines all over the world. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Podemos-Morte has the word of a Mrs. Podemus, who represents and defends the united party.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u51	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Pfizer, AstraZenec, Moderna, Extrasna, Chinese, Johnson & Johnson, all these names are words that all of us have been saying, and they're not music groups, not football teams, they're names of vaccines. If we had been told about vaccines a year ago, we would have talked about vaccines as we are speaking today, after we've learned so much, we wouldn't have believed them. But, in truth, it is not a strange thing to talk so much about, and to speak of such wisdom in general and in the street with all the vaccines, and also of the advantages and limits which each has. And it's no wonder we've been through a very difficult year: the confinement, many dead, many sick, measures, and measures to limit our liberties, a very serious social, psychological, economic problem, a fear, angustism, and what the vaccines bring us is hope of all this. That's what vaccines teach us or bring us back to our minds. "Es decir, no es tan raro que en socida en socia, en todos los lombitos, estemos hablando taudad de las vacunas como hubiæmos ho, si tenemos en cuenta que las una soci soci, presameresi material que sedens los mis de vis de vis de socis de socia la socia de socia la casi de la casi de la cascia la casi de la cascia la cascia de la casi la cosi la casi, tocia nosi de la casi la casi la cosi la cosi, tocia cia nosi de la cosi de la cosi la cosi de la casi de la cosi. That's why we were so happy about the news or the political activity that we took, when we saw that all the states were taking the challenge, this challenge, and that they began to invest the money in order to get a light vaccination against COVID-19. Pozik hartu genuen, huta ere, statu deberdinen arteko elkarlaguntza, kolaborazioa. Eta pozik hartu genuine, huta ére, Europar Batasunaren eskuhartzea. Finally, this European Union, so broken up for almost everything, suddenly seemed to agree to harmonise certain actions around the vaccine and, of course, also to reach early purchase agreements to ensure a good price and a good supply of vaccines in the countries of the European Union. However, this joy, this hope in the political powers, in the public powers, because it seemed that at last they assumed that care had to be put at the centre and that they assumed our interdependence and our ecodependence, this joy that seemed to bring us a new political time turned into frustration. He became frustrated when we saw that vaccines were expensive. And they are expensive, especially in some places; precisely, where there is less money, in countries where there is less money, it turns out that they go and are more expensive. In Uganda, the price of the vaccine is twice the price in some European states. And it's not only expensive, it's also insufficient, they don't come in enough. And also, if we look at the inequality between different states, insufficiency cries to the sky in some poorer states, precisely in which the doses that arrive count for tens, in contrast to the doses that arrive in some European countries, which count for millions. I mean, famine, insufficiency, inequality... But, in addition, it is also insufficient against the contracts that the European Union had signed with many of these pharmaceutical laboratories that assured us of the supply of doses. Moreover, the suspicion, the suspicion that this insufficiency also had to do with the fact that vaccines agreed and agreed with European countries were being diverted to other countries because they were paying more. So with all these suspicions and this reality we wanted to know the content of the European Union's contracts with the pharmaceutical companies, with the laboratories, and we find ourselves with an absolute opacity. We know that the first Member of the European Parliament who agreed to see these contracts had less than an hour, was subject to extreme surveillance and, in addition, was able to consult the contracts that were covered, that is, they were very hidden from the data that were needed to know what was going on with the lack of supply of vaccines, with that insufficient supply and with that unequal distribution of vaccines. So famine, insufficiency, inequality and, moreover, opacity. Why? Why does all this happen when we had the joy that we had finally achieved in record time a vaccine that brought hope to this people that was suffering so much, to this humanity that was suffering so much, when we finally had the hope that political power was listening to citizens and favoring general interests? Why is all this happening to us? Well, then, if we dig a little – and we don't have to dig a lot, because there may be multiple reasons – there is, of course, a fundamental issue, and it is the perverse dichotomy that exists between the fact that most of the economic investment in the development of vaccines has been with public money and yet the ownership of the vaccine, let's say – that is, the patent of the vaccine and the decision how many vaccines are made, at what price and where they are distributed – it turns out that it is 100% private decision, decision of the pharmaceutical laboratories, which are the owners of those vaccines. Moreover, in this privilege of these pharmaceutical laboratories it turns out that one of the things that could be known when studying these contracts is that, in addition, the risks that these vaccines could cause were not borne by the pharmaceuticals, but by the states. Therefore, we have the frustration of that hope due to the existence of pharmaceutical laboratories eager for economic gain in the circumstance that is – even if it is a circumstance of terrible global pandemic – and public authorities, political powers that are incapable, cannot or do not want to control that is not so. If we want to solve this, the solution is logically to be revised by rethinking this model of public-private collaboration, which has become widespread in so many areas and, of course, also in the health field. We were already warned by many international agencies, including the United Nations recently, that the privatization of health services has made us weaker to deal with COVID. And, of course, of course, the granting of this almost absolute power to pharmaceuticals has left us without the necessary vaccines here and let's not say in other places on the planet that they need it as much as we do, because this pandemic is global, it is global and the answer we should give it must also be global, global and equal. So the solution is to rethink this model and, of course, when we talk about vaccines, liberalize patents and also invest public money so that states can count on public pharmaceutical industries. That is the necessary solution to deal with this evil that I am commenting on. Of course, in addition to that, in any case, full transparency in the contracts carried out in this public-private partnership in the health field of vaccines and, of course, ensuring that the scope of vaccines created is universal. And if we look at our small country, of course, we believe that here too, in Euskadi, we will have to increase public investment in health, also in research and vaccine production. We could also help by contributing to the Covax fund through the Basque Agency for Cooperation and the Department of Health, and, of course, we could also contribute through Euskadi's international cooperation in international institutions and bodies. In any case, and in the meantime, today – and I would also like to thank the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party in this regard for their efforts to achieve these objectives – we have now been able to sign a compromise agreement, which, if it does not achieve its objective, will at least pave the way. And I would like to refer to this agreement which we have reached, in which, of course, in addition to recognizing the importance of scientific progress, this agreement urges the Basque Government and all the institutions to move forward – that is, not to conform, but to move forward – in budgetary efforts in the areas of health, research and development, and to ensure that public investment has an economic and social return in the public sphere. The European Commission is also urged to act transparently and report on contracts with laboratories, etc., etc. The agreement also states that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, the Government of Spain, and the European Union to consider vaccines as a universal asset of free and secure access, and to work to make it materially possible and effective. The agreement also states that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, the Government of Spain and the European Union to cooperate closely with the Covax fund. It is also reflected in this compromise proposal that the European Commission is urged to take the necessary measures to give effect to the use of compulsory licences to Member States, in anticipation of possible pandemic scenarios, etc., etc. The European Commission and the Government of Spain are also urged to incorporate as many conditions and arrangements as possible to achieve fair prices, as well as full access to data resulting from public input research. The Spanish Government is also urged to implement the plan approved by the Spanish Government, the Universal Access Plan. Finally, the Basque Government, the Government of Spain and the European Commission are also urged to increase the range of cooperation policies to strengthen health systems in developing countries. I think the agreement we have reached is a good one. It is not the final horizon to which we must aspire, but yes, of course, it is a good start with that horizon facing, so thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. We're gonna go over to the teams that filed the corrections. Euscalo Popular-Ciudadnos's representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u53	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, counselor, vicelehendakari. Ladies, good morning, again. Since they haven't distributed the compromise amendment... are you signing it now? Well, yes, Mrs Gorrotxategi has read it, so with something I have remained, with the substantial, that is, I believe that it can be accepted by my group. It was clear that the objective of GNP is a good objective, logically, it is a debate which is there, which is not only in this Parliament, but is in many areas, in very important areas, where they will have to take decisions. From our point of view, given the original initiative, which I can talk about at the moment, although I already know how to hear the transaction, there were some issues that were impossible to resolve by this Parliament, by its Basque Government, not even with the will to urge, that is, there was no possibility that the initial text would be supported by this group. It now seems that the issues that we may be able to do from here and that even in the Spanish Government are able to do so have indeed been addressed. We have the view on this issue, of course, and that essential need to be all vaccinated makes us think of those who cannot do so because of the economic conditions of the country in which they live, the environment in which they live. And we have to be agents and society, Europe and the world have to be agents that in less developed areas or with fewer possibilities, more impoverished, have access to that vaccine. And the formulas can be... there's the issue of patent liberalisation, but there will also be other formulas. In this respect, I hope that the reference element that concerns us, which is the European Union, will be regulated in this case. Many issues need to be resolved in relation to the possibility of access to vaccines worldwide, because, for the time being, the production of vaccines is scarce, they are coming... the forecasts were others. There are difficulties. Well, those are the elements that have to be solved today, that manufacturing and the fact of how to access, how to identify problems and how to be supportive. That is why this debate is open, there are initiatives on the table before this issue in many areas. Here we see the WTO debates, the sometimes changing positions of the World Health Organization. We also see the disposition of certain Governments. I mean, it is an element that must be combined, but until then we have to bet on solidarity, cooperation. So we, in view of the impossibility of adopting that non-law proposal as drafted, had tabled an amendment. But it could be said that it was a general amendment; it was the possibility that the Basque Parliament would urge the Basque Government and the Government of Spain to cooperate most closely with Covax, which is the accelerator of access to tools against COVID-19, which, as you know, was founded last year, almost a year ago, and consists of governments, international organizations such as the WHO or the World Bank, and other public-private institutions that have much to say in the process of making vaccines, such as the Alliance for Vaccines (GAVI), in that sense, to promote, from there, that access to vaccines against COVID-19 on an equitable basis throughout the world. That is what we wanted, of course, with our initiative, also, perhaps voluntarist, but that is what we could do from here. And to conclude, these days, as a result of this initiative, I have been able to read articles where the dispute is also there, the controversy about the possibilities of carrying out issues such as patent liberalisation. There are legal debates, important debates; indeed, there may be legal or legal debates or there may be impediments to such patent liberalization. What there has to be is alternatives. An article in an economic newspaper, in relation to health, spoke of "Liberalizing the patent of the vaccine, possible idea or occurrence?". It is quite clear that this is not the way to put it. We do not know whether patents will be liberalised, but we do have to be aware and capable of getting the vaccine to everyone and speeding up their manufacturing processes. And I believe that the conscience of the European Union, of its member states, of the World Health Organization is to facilitate all that and to accelerate all that process. Let's hope that's possible. I think I will approve the amendment, the compromise text that you have reached, but, well, I have to take a look at it. Thank you very much...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u54	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u55	Thank you. Good noon, everyone. The words which we have often heard before the conversation began, have been two: solidarity, equity. Listen to me and tell me, but do we understand what we're saying? Do we accept those words and obey them? Solidarity, Equity, are fine words, but what we mean is that of egotism and capitalism. Without going far, if you look into ours, the criteria of grafting, value, are the principal principles that have been the weakest to be a preference, to keep together, and to have equity. But the insertion campaign has become war: What country or autonomy's the first to introduce, where my vaccine is... If we are to be seen in front of the mirror, what shall we say about the insertion campaign? He's made us feel naked. And this other proposition, as it were, of the grafting which we are discussing today, in order to look at it or turn it over, is very important. It goes beyond proposing a strong and equal insertion of the world-wide, and we can consider it from so many aspects. The first is of transparency. Thanks to the work of the left European team, we managed to make the contract public, except for the details which the board wanted to hide, as has been discussed before. Another sample of the transparency of the European committee. We've paid millions of euros from Europe in the investigation of treatment and vaccination against COVID-19, so we citizens have the right to know how much more we're paying the pharmaceutical companies for this pandemia. And in this line, I want to remind myself of the activity of the European citizens, who have been working for a few months now. This is an initiative which protects the Basque Country from collecting, which favors the transparency of the process of grafting and the public control, so as to reach all the citizens as quickly as possible without the interests of the great pharmaceutical companies. We can even look at this discussion from a reading in favor of the public system. You can't take the big pharmaceutical companies, and they can't profit this pandemy by multiplying the profit. We need a powerful public system so that we can start from vaccine production and include it in all the citizens. To do this, the first step is to liberalize intellectual property and patent patents, making vaccine public worldly property, and making any organizations and states accine, and to produce in all the corners of the world, for example, the product of the vaccination for multiplication and grafting in the world, as suggested by South Africa's government. From this Illus, it is indispensable to develop the public production of the fundamentals of Europe, independently of the hands of private corporations. And, by the same way, we should be able to make use of the vaccines which have been developed in different countries: Like the Russian vaccine Sputnik. Vaccines should be accessible to all people everywhere. There is only one way to turn words into reality: to support the extension of the TRIPS agreement. A difficult name, but an easy solution: sharing technology and knowledge to boost vaccine production. What is the TRIPS agreement? Well, it literally means "Aspects of trade-related intellectual property rights." And this also does not help us much, but to better understand it, taking a step back we can see that the agreement was signed by the member states of the World Trade Organization, to protect intellectual property rights. And what does this have to do with vaccines? Well, everything. Intellectual property rights, such as patents and trade secrets, create monopolies that give a handful of companies exclusive rights to production, use and sale, and, if private companies have the monopoly of vaccines against the COVID-19 virus, we will not be able to overcome it. Access to life-saving medicines cannot be in the hands of private companies: South Africa, India and 100 other countries are asking the World Trade Organization for a temporary extension on this agreement, but the European Commission is blocking the request. The left, both in the European Parliament and here, is fighting for global access to COVID-19 vaccines and medicines. We support this extension of the TRIPS agreement for a simple reason: we believe that health is a right, not a commodity. And another possible look is from international solidarity. As the Chief Director of Health Organization said on January 8th, the selfishness of certain countries towards vaccines is hurtful to all of us. In order to help other countries get vaccination, there are interesting international cooperation equipment, but it's obvious they're not enough. And I'd like to end by reaching that point of view. We just saw that vaccine is gold, but it's October. Imagine, if the land of the western hegemony is scarce, what will be the most forgotten of all countries, and yet, besides the vaccination of COVID-19 to prevent other diseases already forgotten in our country. And though from a selfish mentality, if not grafted in the union and co-ordination of all reality and countries, if we do not take measures, it will be impossible for us to get out of the disease, because we shall find ourselves plunged in as endless a wheel and a mad wave. Eta ikuspuntu berekoia was alde batera utzita, ferrien arteko elkartasunaren ikuspegitik begiratzea ezinbestekoa zagiula ust dugulako. Internationalist gara, Eta Ghanan, Thai, Kolonbian edo Saharan passatzen denak kezkatzen gaitu. We are concerned about what can happen in Andalusia, Kurdistan, Palestine or Malaysia. As we are concerned that in the management of the so revered Israel pandemic yesterday, five children between the ages of 8 and 12 who were collecting cardo to eat were arrested. Or as we are concerned by the trial being conducted against the Salvadoran State for the death of Manuela, a woman who was imprisoned for having had an obstetric problem resulting from cancer that did not treat her public health and died in prison. We are concerned about the health rights of women and women from other countries, and we are prepared to go through ways to improve the quality of care and, in this case, with vaccination against COVID-19. Unfortunately, even though it is not a state, and although it is difficult not to be a state, we ought to open our way to join the rest of the countries. We know that what we can do is not great, but the smallest thing we can do from our simplicity is great. Hence we think that the measures which we have set up in our correction are necessary, and that it is necessary to penetrate into our insertion strategy. What do we propose? If this is not done, the liberalization of the Patentes, unless this is done, if we do not do this line which we are working on from the left to the left of Europe, then all the rest of us will be little. It's essential to work on international jobs for this. On the other hand, we're providing Covax with vaccines and demanding contracts with transparent systems. And in conclusion, we believe that it is necessary to strengthen and strengthen the work and processes that can be advanced through the agency of development. We proposed to take care of what we could have done from our infancy, and in the middle we found nothing of it; so that we have not placed our signature on it, and have recourse to abservation, because it is time to take care of voluptuousism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Undoubtedly, having vaccines to deal with the COVID-19 in such a short space of time is a historic milestone that allows us to deal with the pandemic with guarantees. This has, of course, been possible thanks to public-private collaboration between States and the research and pharmaceutical industry. And indeed, the pandemic has highlighted the need for investment, both in public health and biomedical R & D. An effort that we must certainly continue to make. But this process has also opened a series of debates that we cannot ignore. Firstly, in relation to the negotiation processes with pharmaceutical companies. It is true that thanks to the negotiations of the European Commission we now have vaccines for our citizens. And I believe that having established a common purchasing method for the EU as a whole has been positive. I think that is undeniable; much more so when we are still very close to those moments of saving who can between countries of the European Union itself, that we went separately to the Asian markets to do with PPE or with breathers. But that said, it is true that there has been a lack of transparency in reporting on contracts and negotiations with pharmaceutical laboratories. Something that has been called for by the European Parliament itself and which we Socialists share. Secondly, another debate revolves around the reversal of the effort made by governments to co-finance research to citizens. As I said earlier, the pandemic highlights the importance of funding for biomedical R & D and, thus, the participation of many factors, including governments, in the innovation chain, not only in vaccines, treatments and diagnoses for COVID-19, but also in those for many other diseases. A public effort to find clinical solutions that end the pandemic. And we believe that the reality of the current innovation system, so linked to the protection of intellectual property, must think of alternative models to patents that will allow safeguarding the destination to the general interest of all this investment, developing other open and shared mechanisms of knowledge in the fight against this particular virus. Most projects have public funding in various forms of collaboration that encourage the participation of the pharmaceutical industry, but experience shows that public effort is diluted at the time the positive results are transferred to a private entity, in many cases without including conditions that ensure the future accessibility and assertivity of products derived from such research. The Doha Declaration on the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights and Public Health made it possible to incorporate into the legal system a framework of flexibilities for use by World Trade Organization member States under certain circumstances. These agreements grant, inter alia, the right to issue compulsory licences and the freedom to determine whether they are granted because of an emergency or circumstances that may affect the health of the population. In this respect, it seems to us appropriate to transfer to the European Commission to take the necessary measures to give effect to the use of compulsory licences to the Member States, precisely in anticipation of possible scenarios in which the conditions imposed by companies for certain medicinal products put at risk the supply of certain medicinal products to all patients who need them. In fact, in Spain, the Council of Ministers, in the Joint Response Strategy for Spanish Cooperation to the Crisis of COVID-19, states in its document adopted in July 2020 that Spain will be proactive in promoting this type of intellectual property policies that facilitate such universal and equitable access, so we also consider it important to transfer to the European Commission the need to incorporate as many conditions and arrangements as possible to achieve fair prices, as well as full access to the data resulting from research carried out with public contributions, and especially those aimed at combating COVID-19. And, as I said, these are debates that must clearly be held within the European Commission – debates that cannot be removed from what they have – and that must be addressed. And while these debates are being addressed, the truth is that we need to give an immediate response to ensure universal and equitable access to the VOCID-19 vaccine and prepare health systems for distribution to the entire population, considering as public goods the vaccines and treatments against the coronavirus, a goal that is textually reflected in the Joint Response Strategy of the Spanish Cooperation to the Crisis of the VOCID-19. Spain is a founding partner of the ACT-A initiative, which represents the core of the multilateral response to ensure universal, equitable and affordable access to the tools to combat the pandemic, and participates in the development of Covax, which is articulated as the pillar dedicated to vaccines, for which 50 million euros have been allocated, to which the 75 million earmarked for the Coalition for Innovation in Preparedness for Epidemics, CEPI, must be added. Initiatives to which the Basque Government has also shown its support, as the Lehendakari transferred on 19 February last to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the European Union and Cooperation, Arancha González Laya. The objective of Covax is to ensure 2 billion doses of an effective vaccine by the end of 2021, which will help to end the acute phase of the pandemic, as reflected by the World Health Organization in its framework document for a fair distribution of the vaccine. So far, Covax has concluded pre-agreements for up to 700 million doses, 500 with AstraZeneca and Novavax and 200 with Sanofi and GSK. He is also in contact with other companies such as Pfizer-BioNTECH, Johnson & Johnson, and has also agreed with the Institute of Indian serum to make vaccines from AstraZeneca and Novavax for the least advanced countries. The contribution made by Spain will be channelled mainly through the Covax mechanism, as reflected in the Universal Access Plan approved by the Government of Spain on 18 January, a plan that reflects principles with which we socialists feel fully identified, such as the conception of vaccination as a global public good, ensuring equitable, universal and affordable access; solidarity, leaving no one behind; an integrated approach; strengthening health systems, because it is essential that local health systems have sufficient preparedness and means to address vaccination; strengthening multilateralism in response to ensure maximum international effectiveness and coordination; and transparency, monitoring and accountability between them. The mechanisms used for the distribution of vaccines need to be as transparent as possible and to monitor the correct distribution of vaccines. In short, we socialists believe that there are many areas in which we have to act by adding efforts and wills to achieve a social justice goal such as universal and equitable access to the VOCID-19 vaccine. A goal to which we join by being aware that there is an open debate on what should be the formula for achieving it, but which does not prevent us from acting, as we are doing, by making concrete funding commitments to contribute to the donation of vaccines to third countries and thus contribute to ensuring fair, affordable and universal access to the vaccine as a global public good. We welcome the compromise agreement that we have reached. I would also like to acknowledge the proactive attitude shown by the proponent, the Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita group. And I believe that it is also a compromise amendment, a compromise agreement, which goes beyond the declarative, which marks a course to follow, and I believe that it is an important agreement in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u58	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians. Mrs. Juez, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good noon to all. Txertoak bizi of some egora zail eta lumae honetan gure itxaropenak dira. Eta, let's get out of the bezala, the vaccines are allowing us to see the light at the end of the tunnel, a very dark and very long tunnel. In recent months, a year, not only our health has been altered and threatened, but also our day-to-day, our way of dealing with reality, of dealing with problems, of relating, our life in general, and, moreover, our social relations have been severely restricted. We are now discussing it, or more than discussing it, entirely agreeing with the end of the law, which we have considered; it cannot be otherwise. We all have the right to be grafted here or live on the other side of the world. The Ceremonies must come to all parts of the world, and thus we have declared to the proposer, because the end is important, because it is just, and moreover because it is shared. But there were some things or actions in the text of the proprieties that were out of reach of fun. So we have given the proposition to the lady of hatred in this case, and we have obtained an agreement. I thank you, too, as Mr. Rico did, because you understood how far we could get, and that all the others were expressions. But I believe that in many matters, and especially in this, we must keep our legs on the ground, especially because the life, health, and economy of the world are uncertain, and there are many dead. Again, some of those who have suffered the virus have psychological, physical effects, and some of them have long and severe consequences. Ignorance, doubt, change of opinion, which must speedily adapt itself to the long durations and necessities of the pandemia, and new affairs; all this has been a just effect upon the people and us all. We felt fatigue, anger, fatigue, anger, apathy, hope, and we're feeling it. And, as I have said, the most important result is that they are dead. To all this we must add a course of freedom, and a difficulty of seeing family and friends. And they're our vaccine tools in this black peacock. And those of you who have spoken before me have well explained: the graft progresses, and the vaccinations have been effected in a short time, and the insertion of Europe is advancing, and the grafting in the world goes on, but the other ass sees that the vaccinations will not reach the whole world in the same manner, that they will arrive too late, and that they will arrive very little, and therefore we share the end altogether. A few days ago the President said so, and I think he carefully summarizes the other, and therefore I shall read the statement: "The firm support for a global and solid insertion. Cheat must reach all the inhabitants of the planet. In the midst of the poorest countries, and in the light of their medical systems, the worse must be distributed especially among those who are the weakest. I think that the goal should be shared in a multilating manner, and engaged in principles of solidarity and humanity. If these principles were not sufficient to possess the importance of a global graft, they might even be referred to more selfish principles: The pandemy exceeds or is not exceeded in the whole world. The security of each country, its own economy, and public health will not be safe if the imm units do not reach all continents and countries." And I go on with the president's words: "I join and support him in this line by the directors of the OMS and the members of the European Council on this Thursday, February 25th, to the call he made in his statement. In this year of Pandemia, he has shown his solid engagement from Euská, offering the resources of other Autonomys to the Erdiians, and other countries like Peru. Now the global health cooperation wants to be reinforced. In this race, I'm sure you're making two commitments. in the first place, to protect the international effort (Covax) which was designed to restore the global insertion, on the Friday, on the 19th of the month (I mean the series), as I gave it to the Foreign Office, to the Minister of Companion, and to the Minister of European Union; and secondly, to express the will to assist him in access to countries where the vaccination has least resources, direct and prepared for that purpose. I think the President's words make it clear what you're doing for fun, what a lot of effort it is, but, as we explained to Mrs. The COVID-19 affects everyone, we see it day by day around us and we are also seeing through the media what is happening throughout the world. And only through solidarity will we achieve a total immunity, necessary to win as soon as possible this battle that so much suffering is causing. From a justice point of view, that everyone threatened by a pathology must have the same opportunities to prevent it is a just and equitable need. And from a more practical point of view, the rich world should ensure the world's vaccination with less economic resources, in order to guarantee total immunity. Massive vaccine companies are, with some exception, multinationals that have received resources and funds from many European countries to investigate and achieve a vaccine in the shortest possible time. It is time for the funding countries of such research to show generosity to poorer countries, requiring these pharmaceutical multinationals to provide these doses to countries with fewer resources. These donations that guarantee some equality and progress in global immunity should be made through international bodies such as the World Health Organization, thereby avoiding mercantilistic interests. To achieve total immunity, the most advanced countries, the countries with the most resources, must, we must take a step forward, because by helping them we are helping ourselves and ourselves. All this implies a social concertation of the rich countries, because a wider distribution can lead to some delay in the vaccination of the most developed countries. And it is necessary that not only the powers of the rich countries but the whole of society are involved in order to achieve this total immunity. It may prove to be a utopia, but with the joint effort, with the effort of everyone and everyone, utopias are more achievable, they are more achievable. Someone said that we should all plant a tree, and in addition to an ecological objective, it is so that we do not have to shelter under the shadow of anyone, but under our own shadow. And that is what should be done with countries with less resources. A hard target, but we have to work to get it. Albert Bruce Sabin invented a vaccination into the mouth of Polyomis. He was a doctor and didn't pat. He said he wanted all the kids in the world. The pharmaceuticals produced it, he didn't get any money, and his words were, "This is my gift to children all over the world." I think there should be more Albert Bruce Sabin in this world. And don't take this like self-portraits, but in these days, it's in the media that's been working on the science that's been doing and doing it for decades, research, biocillations, and all that's getting results, so I think that's when you're making fun of it. And it's not fun saying, the researchers say: It's done with effort, and the fruit's there. So we have to keep going that way. And I'll finish with the president's sentence: "Pandemia is either exceeded or won't exceed the world." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Juez. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Myst. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I confess that I cannot get used to these debates that address issues that are far outside the competence of this Parliament, this government. With everything that's going on here, in the Basque Country, and in the rest of Spain, we discuss hours of conflict in which nothing can influence. Of the sufferings of people we cannot help now, of universal vaccination, when this House is unable even to make the Urkullu cabinet modify a peak of its particular vaccination campaign, that which differs from the rest of Spain and which prevents most people from already having a high immunity from COVID-19. Mrs Sagardui and her team insist on differing from the rest. The entire opposition is asking him to change his strategy, if he has any. And now we are going to devote a valuable time to theorizing about universal vaccination, access to immunization in poor or developing countries, whether patents are to be public, private or semi-private, to what big pharmacies have to do, which we again cover with the shadow of doubt, even though it is they who are providing something, a little hope on the few days of the first anniversary of that time that no one thought was coming, that house confinement of 14 March 2020. Moreover, despite the evidence of the roll imposed by the parties of this government, today we want the European Commission to be urged to walk in a certain direction, hiding for a minute that this is an autonomous Parliament, with little legislative capacity in these areas, also suffering from a sick apathy and a disconnection of the problems affecting the citizenship that it is representing. I confess that I would personally love the vaccines to arrive very quickly everywhere on the planet. That tomorrow, better than Saturday, this disease is, as Mr Simon defined it in his day, little more than a flu. But the reality is quite different: vaccination in Euskadi progresses with the handbrake thrown out. And, excuse me, but I believe that there are many problems that are pending here and that deserve priority attention before focusing elsewhere. We cannot support ending patents or making public all those that have not been achieved with the contribution of public capital, so without further consideration, without analyzing the consequences, the particularities of each circumstance and of each investigation. And one last question relating to the amendment tabled by the government parties, which is also to be adopted by the majority of this Parliament. This reference to ensuring that public investment returns to the citizenry. Do you really believe that debates like this help our citizens in the Basque Country? I don't know, I don't think so. Furthermore, it must be borne in mind that this citizenship is being paid for by this Basque Parliament, so I think we should focus much more on all the problems that we can really solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u62	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing on the answers round, together with Podemos-Suner. Something... ? From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u63	That's right. This is another legal proposal, and this is what we're doing in order to ask you and push her into a sense of government. In this case, we have vaccines to discuss, a vaccine against COVID. And what we see here is our country, the Basque Country, and the Basque People, that the number of vaccines is getting a little closer to it. And if, then, we take notice of it, and look into the profound reasons, we have a very concrete reality. And when we say to 'Mupon', in a sense of acting, we tell him to do things that are of his own hands, even in that interlocutor power he has, in other organizations, organisms, and other places. I think that's all that's about, when you can make fun of it, and you're going to tell me where you want to go. In this case, as I was saying, there are vaccines here, in our country, something that is badly ripe, and we see that it is indispensable to obtain the liberalization of patents, to control the expense of the public money properly when it enters, and to return again to the benefit of society, and so many things mentioned in our proposal. That's our purpose, our horizon is to have universal vaccines, yes, and also to be free, to be able to put on for everyone. In this case, we've got a middle-class one. We don't get our original goal at 100 percent, but important steps are given on that frame we set, and it offers us a very good chance to start the road. And another question too: I think that vaccine against COVID deserves an agreement in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. He doesn't need to speak to the populars. Mrs. Houseboy, okay? Collect EH. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u65	Thank you. Once more, to emphasize the cause of our abstinence. The lack of patent liberalisation, for us, is a red line that we are working on, both in Europe and here, and that we are going to deal with today. And we believe that at the moment giving what is left to us, however laudable Agent Covax is – and, above all, we have also mentioned it in our proposal – can end up being a almsman, seeing the extent of this serious problem. On liberalization, we believe that we have a lot to do from here, or at least from the Spanish Government, because, as reflected in the Doha Declaration, which was previously mentioned, we must go country by country to know exactly what mechanisms are envisaged in order to be able to liberalize these patents. And that has not even been bloated by the tooth, worth the expression, in this proposal. If we wish to push the universal and effective entry, we think that there is the point and there is the line of work. And Mrs. Juez has spoken of the establishment of certain points which might be beyond the reach of joy, which were intended to be brought in, but I think you have made several requests with all your powers, and outside your jurisdictions, not only to the cares that concern you here. In my opinion, we have all the right and obligation to demand here even out of jurisdiction or jurisdiction. And you haven't even entered your jurisdictions. Because, for example, we talked about the addition of what we had in mind, and that the parliamental law demands "Mercillion by means of the agency of the agency, by means of sub-service and direct agreements, to help the countries where they have more difficult access to vaccines, to produce and distribute them." And you didn't add that in your middle way. In fact, you did not add a single point of our medium. Eta, well, at the first point, Mr. Rico complained that Comrade Saez of Egilaz had not contacted him. I can tell you the same thing: yesterday Mrs Gorrotxategi sent an email, the only one who responded to all the emails was here, Mrs Etxebarrieta, and there was no other public response from anyone. Of those who have proposed the compromise amendment, no one has contacted us either, and I understand it, because you have not put any points; then, of course, you are in your right, as Comrade Saez of Egilaz was also in your right to do so, not to do so or to do so with whomever she wanted. Y en este caso, lo dicho, you didn't enter a single point we were talking about, and besides, as it was a correction, we agreed on as many points as were required at the beginning. And, as we have said, there is a red line in this state, which is the liberalization of patents. And, perhaps, even if we did not arrive at the patents' liberality, the Spanish governments might have been urged from here in the same way as we had educated in several international enterprises to encourage and encourage her to do this reflection, and you would not have wanted to add that either. So again, in front of voluptuousism, we thought that we needed measures today, and that is why we understand and share that good will, but we'll appreciate it in the half-way proposition you've made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, from there, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u67	Thank you, Madam President. I believe that the debates will close when a vote is taken and then the next one will be taken. But, well, to clarify Mrs Etxebarrieta, there is a difference: we are not the proposers in either case. We are not, under any circumstances, any of the proponents. So, when we are the proponents and we want to reach an agreement, we go and address the groups with whom we believe we can reach an agreement. We have received a proposal for an agreement from the proposing group, and in that regard we have responded. Point. And that's a big difference, that's a big difference. Second issue, which I believe is important. We live and are facing a global pandemic scenario, and I believe that coming to this Parliament to say that little has to matter to us in this area because we have things to do in the nearest area, so it is not to understand what a pandemic is, directly. It is not understanding the conditions that are causing in an interconnected and globalized world this virus. And of course we have things to do, of course we have things to do, for a criterion of social justice and solidarity; because, obviously, if we vaccinate only the countries of the first world, what legacy we are leaving to humanity. I think you should make us think that. And certain statements that I have heard here in the last speech, well, they lead me to reaffirm, Mrs Gorrotxategi, that we have succeeded in reaching this agreement, especially when I see that there are forces that do not agree so much with what we have negotiated. I don't think we're dealing with a simple statement, I deny it. When someone says that here there are merely declarative elements and that the girl has not been included, of course, people usually confuse that the girl is what only one proposes, normally; well, that's one way to see it. I think here we come to try to agree, don't we?, to try to see that different groups can have a perspective and that we have to try to sum up, because, if we don't try to sum up, the sums always give the same results, always the same results. I believe that this agreement that we have reached speaks of the lack of transparency that has occurred in the negotiation of contracts and urges those mechanisms to acquire transparency, and I think it is important. There is also talk of the reversal of public investment and how to act against this investment, which has been huge in the field of COVID19. And we say that the European Commission has to put in place the appropriate mechanisms to be able to access compulsory licences, where appropriate, and also to put forward what provisions are needed to ensure the reversal of research, that there is a public role and, of course, the results of such research, as has been the case with a vaccine. And Mrs Gorrotxategi said – and I share it – that in the meantime, in the meantime, the countries of the first world, I think we cannot help but see that we have a duty to act on those countries that have less opportunities than we do. And there's the Covax mechanism. And we have moved it clearly, we are betting on that mechanism, in fact, it is on which they are betting, both the Government of Spain and the Basque Government, and we believe that ensuring the vaccination of those third world countries is something that concerns us all. Of course, we have a lot to do in our areas, at the local level, at the autonomous level, at the national level, of course, and in the European context, but the first world cannot ignore the obligation to consider the vaccine of this pandemic as a universal good. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u68	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians. Your word is yours, Madame Juez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. And good noon again. Mrs. Houseboy, I don't think anyone has the right to ask you away. You came here, and you expressed your request or your proposal, and no one said anything against you. Another thing is, that we were addressed to the inspector on the way up to the wheedle, which we conducted ourselves, and we did a job there. I thank her again, Mrs. It's a wide middle line. Another thing is to want to go beyond it. We all want it, but it's expressions and actions, because sometimes we've heard that things are agreed on in this legislature and that things don't work out. We've gone, yes, Mr. Rico, to things that can be filled up. We can go beyond it, but there's a question of rights again, I repeat, and we're the ones who've gone to the Lady of Hatred, and we're the ones who extended our proposition to each other. It's another thing... Yes, and we even introduced a point to agree on the second proposal. Well, I understand that, but, well, they're different points of view. I appreciate the agreement today, that we must do more, that we must go further, but we must go step by step. And by the way, I'd like to praise the work of the Agency for development and coworker today, and that's one point we've put in. And one thing is that some of the things required, we explained to Mrs. They need to make a path and take time so they can study it and do it. And he realizes that some things can be done now and some things are being studied, some things about the agency and a lot of other things. And again, thank you for agreeing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Juez. Is the missile going to take the word? No, so since we've finished our discussion, we're going to vote together with Podemos-Nozzer, Euskal Socialists, and the Middle Amendments signed by the Communists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the companies are 42; the votes given are 75; the supporters are 53; the opponents are 0; the competition is 22; white is 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0; white,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u71	The initiative presented was adopted. We therefore move on to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u72	Forth point on the theme list: "Provide the proposal as the parliamentary teams made, concerning the update of the housing stations. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u73	Thank you. Good noon, everyone. I'll give you three facts. First date: for the last eleven years the housing stations have never been updated. In 2008, when it was made for the remuneration of incomes, it was the idea that the extra housing station that had been created in the Western world was to pay the families who were renting out of the public protection market. And the number was determined two years later in January 2010 by the decree of the extra housing station. The sum was specified at 250 euros a month, and a special number was mentioned in 320 euros, in particular cases: for instance, the only parents, two or more children, were in charge of them. So the number of 250 euros, and that special amount of 320, was also specified in 2010. This special number, 320 euros, has never been applied, because for years all the budget laws limit this alternative to their additional regulations, so that the additional housing station has always been 250 euros a month. After that, when the Housing Act was made, in 2015, that was where the economic housing station was founded. It was the idea of the subjective housing right to families, if there wasn't a social rental housing for them, to provide for them this economic preparation, to pay at least a part of the rental market, isn't it? And he realized that he would replace the housing station with time, so that the amount would be 250 euros a month. It must be said that it has never been updated for 11 years, so that would be the first date. Second date. The housing leases have been raised in Basque Autonomy during the last 11 years of the year, 17%. If we go to the idealistic website, the idealistic website, we can see some data in it. And, from 2010 to 2021, it's shown that Euscalal Autonomy has been the increase of rentals in Er-Hornami. 31%. It may be exaggerated a little, and, indeed, perhaps there is interest in this private court of sanctimoniouss, and in order to overrate the prices a little. And I think every one of us here will agree that it's more reliable if you're gonna get what's happening to the Basque Frenchuk himself, isn't it? So, let's go to the data that's good to hear from you. EMA statistics, Country Statistics, hasn't got data since 2010; in fact, it has only the data in the second month between 2016 and 2019. But it's only in those three and a half years that the rents have been raised from 625 euros to 688 euros. [[Shows a graph]] For three and a half years, the rent of the housing has gone up 10% in the Euskal Autonomy community. And there's another more interesting poll in this case, because it's the whole term of 11 years I'm talking about, and it's known as English, the Incest of the real estate offers. [[Shows a graph]] This, yes, gives us 2010 data. And at that time, the rent was at 875 euros. Numbers are greater than DMA data, because they are based on the number of approximations, and not on the actual number of approximations, but they are useful to study their development. And the latest data, fourth quarter of 2020, is at 1.040 euros. So, you can say, according to what I'm saying, that Euko-Yo's statistics, the rents have been raised for the last 17,1 years. And in that interval of time, as I have said before, the housing stations have not gone up. That would be the second date. The third date. The economic effort of hire to people who are renting Eusalcal Autonomy in Er-Euros is the highest of the Spanish State. And you can see that last year in the known "Encuesta de lasdiciones de vida 2019." Now, with these facts, Comissionanes Oberas has issued a report which is very interesting, which is called La vivenda de alquiler en Esaña. [[Shows a graph]] On this list, we have the honor of being leader of that ranching. In all the autonomy members of the Spanish state, País Vasco, the first, is to be seen here, among the people who are in possession of it, the percentage of 65 is that of those who have to spend more than 30% of their income, and of more than 5 points from the second autonomy community, that is to say, of a fairly large distance (Canian Islands). The third is Madrid, 56%; the fourth, Asturias, 53, and then all the others. I think it is quite clear by this, that although the income of the Euscal, which is true in the Equinomy of the Esquimenia, is more common to other autonomy communities than those of the rent, it is necessary that those who are in rent should make much more effort than those who are in possession of a house, because the rents of the Escanomians are very expensive, and especially those who are in rents, especially those who have fewer incomes than those who are in possession of one apartment. And I think it's a very significant thing to do with people who are on the rent that are going to make economic effort. What do we propose by this other legal proposition? Update housing stations. If we applied that 17% of what I've been saying to you for $250 a month, it would be 43 euros a month. This has been done by our proposition, which has been rounded upwards, from 43 to 50 euros, and I believe that even the idealist can value the data he has given us. I think he's a little exaggerated, but to round up seems to us to be reasonable enough and rational enough. And so that would be worth 50 euros a month, 300 euros a month, as far as the extra housing station is concerned, and what's been paid by the Solarcecebs and over a hundred thousand people last year, and also, the economic housing station would be the one who handles and hasn't been paid by the House Department, and in the past year, at least 1, 200 people were charged to raise those 250 euros from $300 euros, which would bring it up to 20%. And, of course, a special amount of what I've been talking about, which was specified in 2010 at 320 euros, which was also on the 20th of 20th, 320 euros and 385 a month. We think it's a fairly reasonable proposition, as we have said, and that those who are ready deserve it because they haven't been promoted for 11 years. So, how many people does this promotion affect? If, as I said before, we add these 32,800s plus 1200 more, we mean 34,000 persons, or family units, we are talking about preparation. And that would be an economic impact of 16 million euros, more or less. It's important to note that RedMorch has been working on his budget for 84, 5 million dollars in the past two years, in the budgets of 2020, and also in the recent budgets that have just been tested. But it must be said that in the past year all those millions had not been spent at least a couple of days ago, when I looked at the data that wasn't in the last place, when I looked at them a couple of days ago, with an extrapolation, making a three-month rule, they're going to pay only six million less than the ones who prejugated between the two preparations. So I mentioned a 16 million euro impact, but at least, at the first year, at least, it would have been 10 million euros. It's money, but we think it's worth it. And I would make one last remark, and it is: yes, we're making a suggestion today to update the housing stations, but we don't think it's the way from EH Collect. We believe that it must be an exceptional measure of preparation, something subsidiary, and we believe it is getting too general and converting it into a law. We think we should apply the tools that the Housing Act of 2015 for once. And, for instance, this law of speaking of very interesting instruments, or giving them, to fight against the mere housing, and to sell empty houses, and thus to provide for more social housing. We think that's the way. It's interesting, if you see the latest data, but I'm just saying that in the past year, 34,000 units were available in the Basque Autonomy community, 34,000. The word "damaged" means that they are neither engaged at the moment nor sold, nor are they either in the act of offering or in the state of ruin. So 34,000 units failed. And if you realize, I've already said that we're giving up 34 grand. To see a little more clearly, we're giving 340,000 preparation, and we have 34,000 homes empty. [[He showed two papers.]] I think data can be easily crossed and I don't have to make a crokis, do I? So, as I said, the proposal we make today is, I think, done with pragmatism from responsibility. I think it's necessary to update preparations while we make stronger policies, but from tomorrow we think it's time to apply the Housing Act, and the rest, we think, we have to start the fight against the empty house for once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u74	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, the Podemos-Buzzer. Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u75	Thank you, ma'am. Good noon, everyone. It's essential to update the housing station. That's clear of the facts we've heard now, and I'm talking about the reports that's been introduced and introduced in other times. The housing problem, among the most serious problems we have in this town, is probably at first, second, third place. Datuak, Unai Fernandez de Betonok ore eman dituen datu batzuk ere, mahai hendean usttea gustukko litzaiguke gure hitz-hartze honetan. Rental prices in Araba are above 800 euros, in Bizkaia above 1,000, and in Gipuzkoa above 1,100. That's the data and that's the raw reality. It is only necessary to make a small contrast with wages and precarious conditions; for example, at the first point in plenary this morning, reference was made to juvenile precariousness, but the precariousness, unfortunately, goes far beyond young people. Exebizitzaren arazoa was the lary bear of the moment Honetan, kaleratze guztiak ez ditugulako gelditu. The evictions have not stopped at all at this time either because of the reluctance of the judicial system and many judges and many judges in these months, despite the decree of the state of alarm, where evictions without alternative housing are prohibited. In Euskadi we have a much higher rate than in the rest of the state of public housing creation, but we are still light years from the European Union average. According to the report submitted, if I am not mistaken this week, and if it was not the previous week, by the Ministry of Transport, which has the competence of Housing in the Government of Spain, the Spanish State would take more than 60 years to reach the European average in terms of public protection housing. Here we would probably get it in a few years less, maybe ten years less, maybe 15, we don't know; in any case, too much. How many generations lost, how many generations with problems so far. And, moreover, at a time when there is a perfect combo of precarious work and vital precariousness that manifests itself rawly in access to housing and the goods necessary for life. Euskadin, we have good housing policy, but it's not enough. We have, moreover, the advantage of comparing it with Spain and other communities, and success has succeeded in the work of different parties in years. We have a lot of living houses, but they're not enough. They're not built enough houses, obviously public houses. Six years after the adoption of the Housing Act, the decree on the mobilization of empty housing is still not approved, because there is no interest on the part of the Government in making this an effective decree to be able to mobilize the houses, the thousands of empty houses that we have at present in Euskadi. Although the figures in the latest figures in the reports of the Basque Government are down, there are those 34,000 that Mr Fernandez de Betaño was telling him right now and more than 10,000 of those 34,000 that could be mobilized immediately by having the instruments that the Housing Act already allows, but that, since the decrees are not developed, six years after the adoption of the law, we cannot do so. And, obviously, on the issue of housing, in view of this pace and that it will be impossible to build as much public housing as is necessary, not even with the mobilization of empty housing, it is essential at this moment, and once and for all, to regulate the prices of the private housing market. That is essential, it is done in many places where there is a tense market, and it is essential that we do so throughout the State and then that the Basque Government implements it with the powers that the Housing Act, according to the agreement of the Government of the State Coalition, would give it to regulate the prices of the private housing market. And it is essential, as has been discussed in this parliament, that the improvement of the Young Friend's program should be made. There have been thousands of young people who asked for it outside this program, because they don't get it. And I say again, as I said at the beginning, that it is essential to paralyse all evictions without a housing alternative, and just two hours ago a press conference was held by Stop Evictions of Araba asking the Arab Fora and the Basque Government to take all the letters, all the possibilities to stop the eviction of the family of Alegría-Dulantzi, from a marriage with four minor children in charge, which would be an absolute shame that nothing was done to paralyse that eviction, on the one hand, and not to guarantee a stable housing alternative to those families. This theme brought by the Basque Country isn't new, so we worked around it during the legislation that went past PodemosItureda Unida, and we made our proposals to the Eusko MU. There was no agreement, complete agreement, but we introduced a partial correction and PNV and PSE voted against it. 11 years ago, the government hasn't been on board for 11 years. 11 years old. Ese es el verbadero problem que tenemos. It is true, it has also been explained today by the proposing group, that the decree regulates the Complementary Housing Benefit, from the 250 euros to the possibility of 320 euros, and that then we have the Housing Law itself, where, together with the subjective housing right – which unfortunately is not being satisfied with a housing but has been generalized, as has already been said here, with a benefit – it is also recognized, but year after year, since the adoption of that decree and then also with the Housing Law, year after year, the parties of the Basque Government and the Basque Government limit through the draft budgetary laws the benefit to 250 euros, clearly insufficient. In 2010 the average was 888.8 euros, the rental price, and in 2020 is 1,034. There is quite, quite a difference, and also at that time the prices of supplies have risen. Therefore, in this case again we ask for boldness, more public policy, more budget and, of course, also to regulate the price of rent. It is urgent, it is urgent to increase the supplementary housing benefit and the economic housing benefit from EUR 250 to EUR 300. As I said, 11 years ago those 250 euros were fixed. I ask: how much has the rental price of housing in Euskadi increased in ten years? How much has life gone up in Euskadi in the last ten years? Can it be said here, in this rostrum, that the 250 euros of 2010 are the same 250 euros as in 2021? Mr Arriola, we call on you to be more ambitious in this, to speed up, because it is important and urgent to increase benefits to ensure better living conditions for people who have their subjective right to partially granted housing, with these benefits that do not arrive to guarantee adequate living conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u76	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Euscala Popularo-Ciudadnos's representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. Well, we've got a precise proposal that EH Collect has introduced, and it ends with an agreement between EH Collector and Podemos. But we introduced our own corrections and thought that this correction made our request better, our eternal demand. We believe at this moment that it is necessary to change the law which regulates our social welfare. This commitment, we need to remember that it wasn't fulfilled during the law before, and that it was the act of making love to you. As we have the protection system, we also believe that the system must be fair and must be inside this system. And, on the other hand, it didn't show up to be an engagement, or it's got to be a priority for the Basque Mitch. I mentioned the reform of the profession at the first point. It's an efficient job, it doesn't work very well, and from that line, it's indispensable and it has to be a priority to the Euko-Ming of reforms, as soon as possible, to stand up against jobs and unemployment to be a real reference service. As I said, before EH Bildu's initiative we believe it is appropriate, once again, to go to the bottom of the matter. And for us, the bottom line of the matter is, without a doubt, to go to the framework that underpins the references that have to do with employment, the Basque Employment Service and the protection system in Euskadi, which is, on the one hand, the Law on Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion of 2008, amended in 2011; and, on the other hand, what is the reform of Lanbide, the Basque Employment Service, which, as I said in my first intervention, at the first point of this plenary, certainly needs a transformation in its entirety, in order to become what is not now a real reference service for Basque citizens, that is, Lanbide has to become – what is not now – a real reference service in the search for employment for Basque citizens. We therefore believe that the commitments and priorities which Mrs Artolazabal herself, at the time, pointed out in relation to employment policies, such as the reform of Lanbide, the Basque Employment Service, and the legislation governing the protection system in the Basque Country, must be fulfilled. And it wasn't like that. And, in this sense, it must - as I say and we maintain in the group I represent - certainly be those issues which have to take a prominent place in the policies that the Government already had to implement in the previous parliamentary term, the reforms of these two subjects. We too understand that we need to set up a fair system of social services. And when I say "just" I mean that in the social services system social assistance is received by those who have to receive it, and that there is no abuse, there are no abusive situations, but, on the other hand, we also respond to situations of special need that are not currently in the system. I recently took an initiative so that for people with mental illness who had stayed out of perception of an RGI because it had been decided by the Basque Government, with a different interpretation of the rules in force, the rules would be changed, so that those people who do not have other resources, of another kind, who are offered and can be offered by the outside institutions, so that they could access a housing, because it is the only instrument, the only way that they had, through this aid, to access a housing. On the other hand, that is not to be reckoned – I believe that this must also be dealt with in the future reform of the Law for the Guarantee of Income and Social Inclusion – what is a storage room or accommodation of this kind, small, no doubt; that it is not to be reckoned as a dwelling, since they are making many people, especially older and in a situation of necessity, unable to perceive the GIR. But also, as I said, we have to deal with the dysfunctions that the protection system in Euskadi also presents. As I said, we finally want to urge the Basque Government also to reform Lanbide, because we believe that it is not now a reference service, an effective service in the search for a job, and that is also what must be a main action of this Government, so that it is indeed a reference and effective service in the search for a job. With regard to the planned initiative, I believe that this issue could also be addressed in the context of these two reforms, which I would point out, especially in the reform of the law governing the planned economic benefits, but I do not think it is appropriate to do so through the initiative that has been proposed. And on the other hand, man, I would also like to point out – and in this sense I believe that the groups that support the Government will also highlight it, but I believe that this is a matter to be stressed – that this very week has increased the departure of social emergency aid, which, as we all know, is a departure..., it is true that they are ad hoc aid, they do not have the subjective character of the Income Guarantee Income, but they serve to address situations of necessity that have to do with renting, amortization of credits, energy, costs of repairing appliances, household expenses and some other issues. In this regard, the allocation of social emergency aid has increased by EUR 16 million, from EUR 27.5 million to EUR 43.5 million. I therefore believe that also those situations of special vulnerability or situations of greater need that have been able to arise with the crisis resulting from the pandemic, the economic crisis and the social crisis, which is undoubtedly affecting many Basques, can also be alleviated in some way by this increase in social emergency aid. But I repeat, for us it is a priority for the Basque Government to do its duties once and for all and to address without delay both the reform of the Income Guarantee Act and the reform of the Basque Employment Service. That's all, thank you. Barkatu. As far as the compromise amendment is concerned, obviously we will not support it. And we will abstain in the amendment of the whole of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u78	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u79	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Chief of Investigation, Congressmen, good morning to all of you. When you propose to present this legal proposal, we may agree in the justification you have made. Nay, we would say that this justification is the criterion of this government in the management of this matter. A consequence of the Pandemia: We believe that housing is more important than ever the cultural development of the law. But in the heart we can very well say, fortunately I repeat, "Esqueché, we have a law of Euskádin, which, under the influence of the Basque Socialists, guarantees rights, so that no one can remain without a house, and can have a decent house." But before sailing in other waters, I think it is appropriate to contextualize and do an exercise that we often do, which is to value what we have and to tell what we have. We Socialists not only want aid to be increased, we want rights to be increased. And not only do we say that, as in this case, because in the corresponding amendment we make it clear, but we do. And I give you two examples, one and the other. Thanks to what we do there is precisely a unique Housing Law in Spain for its guarantees for citizens and for its legal certainty. A pioneering and courageous law, because the socialists opened this debate in a context of crisis, when precisely more was needed such a law. A consensual law, because we were able to bring it forward with two antagonistic parties, EH Bildu and UPyD, and it has also counted on its development with the participation of numerous agents. A participatory process that, by the way, has been rewarded by the UN. A law that, also said in passing, today no one questions and everyone claims, even though at that time some refused it. Thanks to what we do, we can say that with regard to housing, this coalition government, in the part that we Socialists lead, has as its priority objective to focus on renting, and especially on social, its main policies, as well as other programmes such as Bizigune or Gaztelagun. The methodological basis to be used for the calculation of the scope of the rent allowance, we understand, must rest on the concept of affordable rental insurance and the effective public contribution to it, without protecting or promoting or consolidating situations of price spirals and impossible excesses, which with certain policies could happen. At European level there is a wide range of criteria and definitions of what affordable housing is. The lack of a formal, legal or statutory definition of affordable housing also makes it difficult to systematically compare and evaluate housing policy initiatives at that level. However, the most widely used measure is to measure affordability of housing on the basis of the relationship between the price of housing and the disposable income of individuals or households. The usual practice on which most housing policies are based is that households should not spend more than 30 or 40% of their housing income. For example, Eurostat defines the over-effort rate of housing expenditure as the proportion of the population living in households that spends 40% or more of their equivalent disposable income on housing. I repeat, Eurostat, not Idealist. In 2018, 10.2% of households in the European Union spent 40% or more of their income on housing. This over-expenditure is a particularly serious problem among the population living in rental housing in the free market, and somewhat less so in the case of the tenant population of low-priced social housing, and especially less among the owner population with or without outstanding mortgage payments. As long as the subjective law is not developed by law, in which precisely the department led by Mr Arriola is working intensively, the citizenry in Euskadi has other guarantees, which, by the way, is also another quality of the coalition government. In any case, this same Government is aware of the situation, it is not alien to the reality that we are living. That is why he has carefully analysed this issue, and at the moment I think we can say, without being mistaken, that as far as this year is concerned, the exceptional aid provided by COVID for the payment of free rent and the very strong reinforcement of the ESAs make us think that we have been able to give immediate answers to the worst situation ever experienced in health and economics. In passing, two aid schemes – the exceptional ones resulting from the COVID for the payment of rent-free and the reinforcement, in the case of the most outstanding ESAs – two which have not been mentioned either by the proposing group or by the group with which it has reached a transaction. Because, look, when this Government cannot guarantee rented housing to those in need of housing, it is given coverage by other means, with other resources, thus receiving the protection of its Government. In Euskadi, more than half of the total rental park is operated by the Basque Government, either by the nearly 26,000 public rental housing units or by the more than 30,000 rental benefits paid to so many other households. And that element is precisely what differentiates us from any other autonomous community from any sign and puts us at European level precisely in the positive classifications that matter precisely, not in other superficial ones, some of which have been mentioned in this rostrum. The existence of this social insurance comes precisely because there are guaranteed budgets, in this case thanks to the institutional stability that gives a majority represented in this House, with the hands of the Basque Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. In this scenario it is the regulation of the subjective right to housing that can and must develop an update of the housing rental benefits with effect by 2022. Hence the meaning of our amendment, which is intended to accompany the Government in the work it is doing at the end of this regulation. Moreover, this issue is perfectly shielded by the current Budget Act, more specifically the seventh additional provision in its current terms, ensuring that the final design of the subjective right to housing does not imply that those who could have been or have been recipients of the supplementary housing benefit remain in the future without the right to receive the economic housing benefit, and also ensures an orderly and guaranteed transition from one system to another, in compliance with the agreement on this matter of the Basque Parliament, adopted here. The Government considers that the amount budgeted for 2021 in relation to housing benefits is sufficient, based on the objectives envisaged. In any event, the allocation of expenditure is extendable on the basis of needs, as a subjective right, and as such is reflected in the third annex to the 2021 Budget Bill, paragraph 19. Questions which have already been dealt with in the subsequent budgetary negotiation with Podemos, which, unlike EH Bildu, was the group which tabled amendments on this issue today. The competent department, in particular the Deputy Housing Council – in compliance with the 2017 parliamentary agreement – maintains a line of work coordinated with Lanbide, with the aim of making an orderly transfer between the two benefits to the rental of housing. A shared commitment to the development of a law and benefits in which some can say loud and clear that we have much to do, as long as it was we who did and made possible for Basque citizenship to have a law that protects a right, that of having a decent roof to live in, through effective policies that do not leave anyone behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u80	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good noon to all. Of course, we all agree on this plan of marriage, when we have to pay a month's rent or rent for all the families, I should say it is the greatest charge of every month. And often too large a percentage of the incomes of a family in paying it. We say that we all have the right to live in a decent apartment to develop our lives. And to do it, no doubt, from public institutions, we must certainly assist. And you can help in two ways, right? , and this is the saying which is given here. On the one hand, by increasing the offer of public housing, and on the other hand by providing economic aids. We believe that the strongest wager is certainly the first; In short, we believe that this is the way to do so. In many countries of Europe, and in countries where the rent is much more used as life, public parks are very large. It is true, too, that tenets have changed for the past few years, and that this tenedness has increased in readiness. And now, in this situation, this crisis brought by the pandems caused by the COVID has increased, but we still believe that the best way to make public policies is to increase public parks in regard to the housing, and not so much to help them with preparation, no? But we always say that even if our public park is not so small, it's not big, it's not big. We don't have enough public housing for the lawsuit we have, and therefore we are forced to do that mixed public policy because we can't satisfy all the demands we have given us by a house, and therefore we must satisfy it even by preparations. And above all, we must give an answer to the subjective right of the house. We agree with the average, that the amount of preparation must be updated. You said it right, didn't you? That extra preparation was established in 2010 at 250 euros, and it's been a long time since the market has had many changes, the prices have gone up, and these preparations have to be adjusted, we agree. Another thing is how this should be done, or what methodology should be used, or what criteria should be used for this elevation. You have not made a proposition in this sense, nor in the negotiation of the former, both together by Podemos. And, Mr Martínez, the government offered you that chance to get up from 250 euros to 275 euros, which was a big joke. It wasn't enough for you, and it wasn't an agreement, but it was a cheer. And I think that he already makes it clear that there is such a desire to examine or to update these preparations. And, as I said, it's a matter of how to do it. And not only in the determination of what number is to be here, but in what judgment is to be done, but also in what sense is to be done? We have several times mentioned that from this establishment prescribed by RGI, a transition is to be made in the law of Housing. This preparation, hitherto managed from the profession, will then be managed from the Housing Department. The decree, which regulates the subjective right, must also receive this readyness, from one readiness to enter the other. We've always said that we should do this right, that we won't admit anyone who gets this preparation without preparation for that transition. And, well, he has his own complication. And this decree is highly advanced; we have asked the government to accept it several times. But also, if it has its limits, it seems 2021. that this decree will be able to see the light this year, and that we may make this ordered transition possible. And then we did not share what you proposed in the original proposition, methodology, or how much we decided; On the market there was a rental as high as that, you mentioned that 17% of the rental prices have been raised here, but you propose to increase 20%. So, I don't know, he went up to 17%, but you propose 20 percent, and I don't know what you're based on 20 percent. Well, I don't mean to say that if you'd suggested 17%, we'd agree, right? But I don't think it's the right way to say how much this promotion or preparation ought to be? And Mr. Amandez has also mentioned that there are several ideas about the available house: not that there is a concept, but that it is measured by so many parameters, what is available in such a case, not? Now it may be founded on the relation between the price of the apartment and the income of the family. Or that effort, which families make to pay for one house, should be the amount, so there can be no more than 30% of their income, that between 30-40%. Here, for instance, no one in public rent pays more than 30% of his income, right? Then there are several parameters. And then he has mentioned them too, and I will not repeat them, but they are considered, as well as when several other elements are determined: a political measure of environmental policy, or a certain number of accounts, which the law may have on the cost of the available housing. And we should also consider all this when we determine the amount of these preparations. So, will to update or to review preparations and to settle them in other numbers? Yes, all right, but maybe it wasn't the right way to put it. I think what we were asking him to do in our corrections, let him do it once and for all a decree that will regulate the subjective right, because that's the right way, because that's where we have to get that future housing station. And then let it be recorded in the presidencys of 2022, in the number determined, and satisfied with the need of answering this subjective right. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u83	Hello again. Just an explanation. On December 22, this is where, when the head physician of the Arriolas explained the budget for 2021, I took it myself. I mentioned in the priors that this particular amount of additional preparation was limited again, and I no longer knew how many years it was done, and it seemed to us that the two preparations in the flat were to be updated, both supplementary and economic. Then, when we were half finished with the legal proposal, we came to the discussions of the past, and we found out, as has been said here, that Podemosi had been offered to the third negotiation, if I am not mistaken, to go up, from 250 to 275 euros a month ago. What had been proposed to him was a climb of 10%, so EAJ and PSE were ready in January at 10%. You'll explain it now, but not us. We understand why it is because you're getting interested in the interests of the community. Klaro! What you can't do here is give the opposition a little bread and even less to the EH Collector. So we think you're not supposed to explain to us, but to the people, those 34,000 people who're getting preparations, why don't they understand why you don't want to update them? Right now Mrs. Beragon has mentioned that maybe 2022 can be upgraded. And in the bargain which we had come to a little half-way, this was his last proposal, a release in 2022, but not exactly how many. I think we've gone to negotiate with the flexibility of ourselves. We told you it seemed a questionable thing to us that the number and the time seemed a questionable thing to us. We didn't think it was a bad time to move forward from 2022 to a rise or an update, rather, so we accepted a release from our position. But we needed to fix it somewhere. Now Mrs. Zaleski said she didn't understand why she didn't understand why, if 17% of them went up to rent, why we put 20% on it. I've explained it in my pre-intervention. I'm not going to explain it again, but, well, you might suggest that we make a transaction between 17% and 15%. But you didn't want to get into that discussion. I understand that your context is different, I understand, that it wasn't a negotiation of certain budgets, and that you might have been less able to win the same way as you do, but you have to say that you didn't need Podemos's vote, and that you didn't need the votes of the other parties to lead you into the budget. Then I say again: you mustn't explain it to us. You'll have to explain to these 340,000 percentors why you were ready in January to raise their preparations 10% and you're not here right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u84	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Together, Podemos-The Batter of the Batu. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u85	We are not right today – I believe – in virtually no initiative, and it usually happens when there is a budget in the middle, when we make proposals from the parties that we are in the opposition. I believe that the original initiative is a realistic proposal that we share, but that we share because we had already done it in the budget negotiations and in the amendments to the budgets, and also the calculation that we had made was similar to that made by Mr Fernandez de Betaño; and, of course, we are not infallible in the calculation and we are also prepared and willing to negotiate what the change in the calculation method can be, what index is used, but you say absolutely nothing of that in the amendment that you are going to adopt today. It could have been an equis-based climb, but let's agree. Does it have to be January 2022 and not January 2021? I don't understand very well why. Doesn't it have to have retroactive effects? Well, we can understand it, whether it's from the moment it's approved here and introduced into the decree. But why is something that was worth in January 2021 and it's in writing not worth now, which is March 11th? Isn't it? We could have taken the decree of the Ministry of Transport and said: "Well, then, we raised it to 900 euros". We have not done that, we have given a realistic figure based on the increase in prices for 11 years; that we are not talking about yesterday, 11 years of increase in prices of rent, of the CPI, of the price of life, that is what we are doing. That it does not have to be 50 euros and it has to be 43.50 because it is the index that we have agreed to use? Well, let's do it, but they offered 25 euros, he said; at least that margin, we know there is, that 10%. That's what we wanted with today's initiative and transaction. Of course, there has been an appeal that there was no budgetary agreement and that is why it has not been made, and it will certainly be done again, but, well, there was a partial amendment that could have been agreed as well, as is done in the municipalities or as is done in other institutions. That option was on the table. That I have to get to the decree, yes, well, but it's just how many years we've been waiting for that decree, how much longer we're gonna have to be waiting for that decree. And then, correct me if I am wrong, but the Basque Parliament, one of its functions is the impetus to the Government, and it is a non-legislative proposal for the impetus to government action. I do not know today, but in infinite agreements the Government has been urged to increase or amend the equi decree; therefore, there were options. There is no will at this time, surely because it will not interest to reach an agreement at this time or because we do not know what you are waiting for 2022, you will explain it, but that there was margin we know because it is black on white in documents of the Basque Government which, at least, the margin in 2021 – I am not saying the agreement and the political will – the budgetary margin in 2021 to raise housing benefits was, and the partial amendment was. Now they're going to say, "Well, you didn't approve of the government's budgets." Political confidence is not achieved in 48 or 72 hours, and it is not done, above all, after the Basque Government's recourse, for example, to the exploration of gas in Araba; that requires confidence. For a partial amendment we could agree and they did not want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u86	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. The population won't participate. Basque Socialists. Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u87	Thank you, ma'am. I'm going to repeat myself. You are asking for this benefit to be taken up, but at no time have you done an analysis of the rest of the existing benefits, that is, you, the rest of the issues of the benefits to reinforce the existing aid derived from the COVID that this government has done, you did not want to analyse them. So, what are you here for? Anyway, the gentlemen of Elkarrekin Podemos have now drained the lump. You could have negotiated an increase in this benefit. In fact, this Government offered it to him, but they said it was his or nothing. For you to negotiate is that, or yours or nothing, and that is not to negotiate, that is to impose; and here we are not to impose, we are to negotiate and to reach agreements. You were talking about evictions. Look, what I find regrettable is that a party supposedly of government, like you, does not know that there were extraordinary measures adopted by a government – of which you are a party – which, among other things, constrain notably the possibility of carrying out certain evictions. You are not even able to stand up for yourself in this House. And look, fruit of that, I can tell you that today, today, this year, the number of evictions that have occurred is not even half that in previous years. Come here and put it in value. If you want to put data, put it, but put it, among other things, please put a little value on what you do in other governments. You said that they have been waiting for regulatory development for some time. Look, I'm gonna tell you one thing: do you know why you're waiting? Because there's a law. Do you know why there's a law? Because the Socialists did it and we were able to approve it. You were part of other previous governments and were unable to do so. Mr Fernandez de Betoño, it seems to you insufficient, and in fact you said it in this House, in Mr Arriola's statement of budgets. If they had it so clearly, why didn't they submit an amendment? They could have done it. But, of course, you make headline policies, you don't make real policies. You come here to make titular policies and not to offer real chances of doing so. Why didn't they make an amendment? Why did you not give this government the opportunity to negotiate with you something concerning a law that you supported? They could have done it, they didn't. In any case, you don't like the private market, you don't trust the private market, and yet the data you bring us here is that of a portal dedicated precisely to the private market. Anyone understands them! In any case, they have come to carry out a market analysis, regardless of precisely the protection policies and housing policies that this Government makes. If you want to do an analysis, do it, but don't do it in part. Put all the data on the table. And, to sum up, you have been saying that, well, that Idealist says that the price of housing has risen by 17%, but that you round up and raise by 20% the proposal you make. That, what does it feed? It can precisely feed the price increase in the private market. As I was telling you, look, you yourselves are also incapable of promoting a law of which you are participants, because you also negotiated it, you also negotiated it. So, look, I'm just going to tell you one thing: while you're dedicated to printing banners to teach them on this stand, we're dedicated to printing official newsletters that bring effective policies so that no citizen stays behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u88	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u89	Very short. I think, in the end, the concept is not a bad idea, is it? Mrs Garrido has spent all her speech saying that the profession requires reform. It is true that at the present day these supplementary preparations are managed from the profession, supplementary preparation for the housing, but we are constantly soliciting the development of the law, the development of the Housing Law, and this Housing Law regulates another preparation for the housing. That's where we have to make that transition. As long as this transition does not take place, there is a legal problem, the government is working on it. At this moment, when an additional preparation is finished, a citizen becomes a revision, and if he has a subjective right to the housing, he begins to pay his rent for the housing. And that's exactly what another part of the government does, the Housing Department. To pass all these into the housing station, it is calculated that it will take two years, and legally the law does not allow us to make a decree of the subjective right until this transition has been made. Then there's a natural delay in this transfer. And that's what we need to rule that housing station once in a while. And then, by a decree, we can't decide these matters. That must finally have its reflection in the budget bill. And that's why I said that in the next year's budget it will be possible to receive it, if the decree which already regulates the subjective right in this year sees the light, and we hope it will be so. Around the numbers, I had another debate with you, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, about the transport, and we also walked there, just what a bus or train was too crowded, and how many people sat, according to their perception. Today, at last, something similar: We propose to raise 20 hundred for the market as a basis. But the prices of the market haven't been that high, Mr. Aziza has also told you. I don't know, it's not serious. I think that such subjects ought to be made differently, and not come here with another kind of proposal. I think it was you who had your chance when the Law of Prevene was transferred, because that's exactly where we have to receive all these preparations. Then, on our part, our will has been expressed again, because they are really old-fashioned. It is true, for many years since these decisions have been decided, but we believe that if the consent of the decree is this year, it can be reflected in the next year's priorities. And honestly, I believe that the will of the Government and at least the will of our party is clear when we say that these preparations must be updated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and together the middle-direction signed by the Podemos Group. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters are 27; the contrary, 48; the abstations are 0; white, 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u91	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Team Popular-Ciudadans. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly are 43; the votes are 75; the supporters six; the opponents are 68; the abscesssion is 1. white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u92	So it's not accepted. And finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the U.S.A. patriots in the whole area that the teams present. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting were 43; the votes given, 75; 41; the contrary, 28; the abscesssions, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u93	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "The Companion of the popular Euscal Group-Ciudadanos as a parlamentary group-about setting up a delegation service for agriculture and black-and-feeleding farms whose employees are COVIDs." Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Larre, representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadans, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u94	Good morning. Thank you, President. Agricultural farms, i.e. agricultural, agricultural and livestock farms, are part of the work and health activities that are affected by the mandatory quarantines of COVID. And tasks such as milking cows, feeding livestock or using seeding or rotting machinery can be supplied by people trained in training centres to perform these tasks while farm owners are passing mandatory quarantine by COVID or simply need to be replaced at a specific time. Failure to carry out these essential activities would cause serious damage in an agricultural production cycle. In many cases they are superior to a mere stoppage of activity. It is therefore necessary to ensure the level of activity necessary to ensure that the operation is not completely halted and that it is able to recover the work as quickly as possible, once the staff have been recovered. Each territory has a different case by type of farms. Those of Álava have nothing to do with those of Gipuzkoa or Bizkaia. Although Gipuzkoa's are getting bigger, they have nothing to do with it. But what they do have in common is that animals have to be cared for every day and sowing has an appropriate period, and the rot has another appropriate period, that is, certain actions in this sector cannot be left for later. That is why we put forward this proposal not of law, to attack these shortcomings. We need staff in the formed chamber to work to generate resources, training courses in these sectors, and that the parliaments participate in this labour market generated by Lanbide as a link between the farms and possible workers who are willing and trained to carry out the tasks necessary to ensure that the farms and livestock do not lose their cycle. And this is in the sense of maintaining our primary sector, which was so necessary during the confinement in March. The kilometre zero has gained weight and we must keep it. They have a positive impact where they are located; where there are farms there is repopulation, there is care for the environment (we said it a few days ago in the Committee on the Environment). So that we can clarify – and I'm going to talk about figures – we have 18,720 farms between cattle, sheep, goats, pigs and birds. Most of them are less than 30 heads, that is, they are not very large farms; therefore, they are still small farms, but they are no less important, they are within what is the imaginary in Euskadi. More than 150,000 hectares for crops. It fills our mouths talking about the primary sector, the impulse of this sector. And the pandemic that plagues us has shown and brought to light that we were not prepared in any way. That is why we have to face the changes and we have to start the changes step by step in order to alleviate the shortcomings that have been and have been uncovered with this pandemic. Today, with this initiative we want to - I repeat - encourage, encourage the training of workers who are willing to join as soon as they are needed to go to work on the farms that need it - I repeat, all this coordinated with the outlaws, who are familiar with the case studies of the farms in each territory. Therefore, what we propose is training and coordination; training by Lanbide and coordination by the Member of Parliament with regard to farms. And I want to be very brief, but I don't want to cease my vehemence. The primary sector is important. The primary sector is a sector that we have an obligation to take care of for its persistence. It is a sector that, apart from supplying us, of giving us that circle that feeds us, that takes care of us, is necessary in these lands. When it is said in a committee that they take care of our mountains, because small farmers are the ones who know perfectly well what the situation of our mountains is, what the situation of our fields is, they are the ones who need support. It has been shown that they did not have support and that they do not have it, that we are going to blow, but they really need real support. And I'm aware that you can't start the house on the roof and that a first step can be to start training young people, or people interested in the sector, so that they can replace the owners of the farms when they need to, and then maybe become part of those templates. It is important that we take care of the primary sector, but start really doing so. And I have been very brief, but I think the intensity of my speech is enough for everyone to understand that it is necessary to have training and to have people willing to work and help in the primary sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Mrs. Housekeeper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u96	Good morning, head of the table. Good morning, everyone. Today we have come to discuss another proposition as well as the Popular-Ciudadus. In fact, it's a peasant and a representative service created by the COVID to start. During Pandemia, the first sector was considered essential and strategic. There are many in our homes who have praised the work of the mines for supporting the supply of fresh products. It's a sector that feeds us, so let's not forget it. In the other proposition of the law there are several consequences of the COVID in the sector, and it is plain it affects him, but it is not the only obstacle, and I believe that it is necessary to refer to other questions which lead before the Pandemia to agriculture and cattle. It will thus be best understood that it is necessary to set a replacement service in motion, and set up a line of help to cover its cost. I would like to list some of the most common problems and the solution offered by the Administration in most cases. If industries do not charge production costs with the prices they pay to producers, solution: subsidies. Floods, drought, pests, diseases: subsidies. Wildlife damage to land or farm animals: subsidies. Investments impossible to take on in order to adapt to the endless lists of production and environmental requirements required from Europe: subsidies. And today that we are proposing a replacement service for vacations, casualties, etc., we are asking to deal with this expenditure also, again, subsidies. It is clear, as we have often accused, that the first sector of the Basque Country lives on account of its subsidies. It's the most common solution to all the problems that are found out for the moment. And the sector works from sun to sun, so that it can move on as best it can. Besides, it is necessary to perform a laborious administration activity to demand all the subsidies which enable them to continue. For their activity, owing to the prices they receive for the first things, is not, unfortunately, profitable. For if they had not these assistance, they could not endure it. Besides this, it is said that there is no Relebo. And it is natural, because he who does not feel agriculture as the essential part of his own life now seeks another trade, because he who has not lived does not know what he supposes. Although we think we know what we're talking about, we have no idea. 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. That's right. It is an essential task, and although when we talk about care we are talking about something else, we are talking about people's care, this is also a task of care, of animals. But animals can't leave for the next day either, they can't disconnect. Minimum services should be guaranteed, as in other sectors, but are not guaranteed. And if there is no relief it is because there are few people who want to work in the sector and because those who want to see it as something impossible, because the initial investment to enter from outside is, for the most part, insurmountable. I'd like to give you an example: A 54-year-old woman, with a couple in her family business, with a sheepskin sheep's sheep and a bit of cattle for meat. Three weeks ago, he broke his ankle when one of the cows was driving. A job accident, of course. She's on leave. But a few years ago, but not so many years ago, there was no right to take it. I still remember my mother milking cows with plaster from her ankle to her hip. We've improved on something, thank God. The woman in my example is on food, as I have said, but who will replace her? The campaign is at its highest point. At this time of the year, both of them, when they're well, sleep only four hours a day. Now one of us can't work. How is one person to be adapted to work on two people in the prime of work? They've got two sons in their case, and they're offering help out of work until their mother's completed. But children don't want to go on with the mines, either of them, even though they grow up in that atmosphere. Or, indeed, that I grew up in this climate. For they know better than they know, they know the labour, the long labour, the want of rest, and the small reward. They've lived, they know what it is. Parents don't encourage them to follow, they want to find something outside, anything. They see no future in the first sector. Thus, with this scenario, we find ourselves at the beginning of two issues that would greatly improve with the implementation of a replacement service: first, the quality of life of people working in the sector. Right now, most of them can't even dream of a week's holiday, a weekend off, nor can they afford to get sick. And, unfortunately, they get sick, like everyone else, and suffer accidents, like everyone else. And even if it seems that the opposite is assumed, they deserve to rest and disconnect from time to time, like everyone else. The replacement service should make it possible. Secondly, relief would also be facilitated. Improving the quality of life of these people working in the first sector would make it more attractive for young generations, and perhaps encourage them to stay on family farms. Moreover, with the creation of a well-prepared stable staff bag, it would be possible for people who do not have access to exploitation to enter this world. Cooperation formulas, leases, transfers, relief contracts could be sought to enable them to do so without having to face such a strong initial investment. We would be creating jobs – let us not overlook them – by creating jobs at a time when so many jobs are being lost, but when people increasingly value life in the countryside and contact with nature. It's a chance we shouldn't let go. On the other hand, from the farms, people who came to perform the replacement would be welcomed with peace of mind, as they would be trained, trained and experienced in the performance of the tasks. Because it is difficult to use this service if you do not have enough confidence that whoever comes to perform the replacement is able to take the work forward, to handle the animals properly, to use the machinery and tools. It's not worth anyone. The staff who go to the farms must be trained, must perform practices to know the management. And it is impossible to hire a replacement taking into account the low profitability of family farms without financial support that covers expenses. We are tired of reporting that care is not properly recognized or paid. This model of society, this model of well-being, rests on that injustice. Similarly, we are assuming that people working in the first sector will not be properly remunerated. Has anyone wondered how much they would have to charge to get a fair income for endless days and calendars without rest? Has anyone given it any thought? However, it seems to us normal that they neither cover the right, nor rest the necessary, nor can they stop when they are sick. For these reasons we have proposed the necessity of an organized service in our correction, considering exactly the following: the situations to be represented, the work to be done, the workers who want to be prepared, the needs to be provided. For this purpose, it would be indispensable to the association, union, co-operative, and foreign organization of the first sector, as well as profession, because the latter ought to govern the service. They're doing some effort in the aldunes and also in Araban by the institutions of the sector. But, in our opinion, the service should not be merely a medium between the employment authorities and the present demand. We suggest integrated service management: form, the following practices, the creation of a stable bag, and the introduction of its members when demands are required. The goal is that the conditions of the first sector are homogeneous all over the member. Not to change the quality of these men's life according to the country in which agriculture and cattle mines are placed. It is not a question of giving the immediate answers when they are present to their wants, but of having a proper answer to what is required. In any case, it is also indispensable to us to establish a specific line of help which will cover the expense connected with these contracts. For, with the want of domestic revenues and the want of incomes of small mines, there would be no demand for substitutions, if there were no subsidies for that purpose. The cost would be unbearable. Other communities have several formulas to provide replacement services. In the Navarre, for example, there are places for vacations, sickness, accident, motherhood, fatherhood, and other situations. The maximum periods are set and the maximum number is in number, but the service is being provided and is correct. We are filled with our mouths, as Mrs. Larre has said, about the work of these people, the office of dedication, fresh products, quality, society, and environment. Well, today we have a chance to improve their lives clearly and make that sector more attractive to future generations, so that people who don't stay and want to work on it. Unfortunately, we believe that there is no will to take another step, and that the confession due to the sector will remain in the words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u98	President, ladies and gentlemen. The initiative presented to us by Mrs Larrea is an initiative that has an interest, which in fact goes to a problem that has been dealt with for a long time and for which there are different behaviours and solutions in the Basque Country. It is true that the farms have some subsidy lines in Bizkaia and in Gipuzkoa, and some treatment formulas in relation to whether it is either the holders of the farms who can exercise this right to subsidy or are associations that intervene and regulate – in the case of Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa – and it is true that there is a different situation in Álava, there is no such aid. It is also true that agriculture and livestock farming in Álava have fundamentally different characteristics in terms of expansion: in some territories we talk about family farms, sometimes with a single holder; in other places, in particular in Álava, we are talking about larger farms, and some of them are already related even to industry, and therefore we are talking about other needs and another way of interpreting work in agriculture and livestock. But in any case it is true that in agriculture there is a lack of labour, and, in fact, for countless tasks it is necessary to hire workers, and in addition to workers from outside the Basque Country, because there are no work bags in the Basque Country to meet these needs. And it is true that for livestock, which is an intensive labour force, full dedication, every day of the year, there is also difficulty in finding and being able to fit workers. There is no work bag in either case or another, and this is what leads us to the root of the problem. It is true that the initiative was based on a reference to the situation generated by the COVID; it is also true that in the time we are living, at this time of the pandemic, fortunately, we see the exit from it; therefore, in the time that could be needed to train workers and to be able to derive them to agricultural farms, vaccination will surely already be extended – at least with that health and political criterion is being worked on – and that is why perhaps it was necessary to derive or convert a little that initiative, which dealt with a very specific aspect, to the problem of training in the sector and of the labour market, or even to the management of this training itself and of this very placement of those workers. We are therefore faced with a space that has a public interest, a social interest, because it can create jobs, and we are faced with a space that then needs specific management, because it is going to be a job temporarily and it is going to be a job with a lot of mobility, because, if you have to attend vacation periods, you have to attend break periods, you have to attend very specific periods, obviously, that will not create a job stability in a fixed place, but you can create it on a radio that is possible to attend, on the move, and that is precisely why we need to have training, that there are bags of work, and that they can then be managed in such a way that the stock exchange workers, more or less, can be working in a stable way, even if they are subject to mobility and even to a change of activity, of concrete work, because of the needs that can be created. That is why Mrs Larrea's initiative is an initiative that – I say – is of interest to her, and we share it not only from the public space that this Parliament or the government means, but also from the outside parliaments and, of course, from the agri-farm sector. I have had the opportunity, in relation to this matter, to speak with agri-farm associations and, indeed, they share the need for such training, a training that should reasonably be led for the whole of the Basque Country from the training for employment that can be done by the Basque Government itself, in collaboration with the outside parliaments, obviously because they have the most competence in what is the functioning of the sector itself, but in this task of meeting we are; therefore, I believe that we have enabled, through the compromise amendment, a formula that can be very interesting for employment, for economic activity and for the care of the agri-farm sector, which can generate a breathing system for the agro-farm sector so that it can not only work but also have a social life, take care of its health and take care of many more things. It is true that every time, above all, where the problem is more serious, on family farms, families are with fewer members and there are fewer and fewer members of those smaller families who want to devote themselves to agriculture and livestock. It is necessary to encourage them, in some way, to give them some expectations and incentives so that rural work can also enable social life, and the compromise amendment goes in that direction, in that philosophy, and we hope that from the adoption in this Parliament it will be put into effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u99	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Ma'am Molina, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of staff, members of the legislature, good noon to all. We'll talk about one of the strategic coasts of Euscadian sectors in this Parliament today, about agriculture and ranchers. The sector with lights and shadows is affected by constant cares, but with great forces and possibilities. Most farms are familiar and present some problems such as generational relief, because this is a very slave profession, which requires daily attention from farmers and livestock farmers. And I speak in masculine because another challenge facing the primary sector is the visibility of women in the rural world. Many women manage homes, generate high-quality products with the cultivation of their land and the care of their animals, and market and distribute these products; therefore, they must be given the role they deserve and facilitate and promote the incorporation of more women. On the other hand, from a crisis of health, the provisions and the drinking sales of the district-channel have been lowered. As I said, there's a lot of concerns for the sector, but there's a lot of chances. One of them is technicalization, because it is essential to improve the life quality of people who work in the sector, for example, the robotization of the movement. Undoubtedly, the use of new technology is an ally to encourage the competitiveness of the first sector, and shows that it has the ability to adapt. During the pandemic they were recognized as an essential sector and responded to demand, ensuring supply and ensuring that we did not miss anything. It is a sector to which we must thank for its work, which, I insist, is continuous. They don't know the days from eight to three, not the bridges, not the holidays. And if anything good has brought this pandemic is that it has put in value the local product, the kilometer zero. The products of our starters and organic farming are becoming more important every day, because they are quality and close products, with a traceability that generates confidence. Society is increasingly appreciating that the food it consumes comes from the farm to the table and that it is, in addition, healthy food. Even the tourists who visit us, many of these people do so for our gastronomy, which is based on the quality of the raw material we rely on. Indeed, the concept of food is changing worldwide. It is being given greater importance and the origin of these products is being taken into account. That is why we believe that this change offers us a great opportunity and that we must take advantage of it. And there we will be supporting the sector, so that it produces with greater quality and sustainability. And that job, we have to do it with all of us. It's got to be a side job, and then it has to go on when pandemy's over. And in that job you'll always find us the Jelt Party of Eukaldo, who helps the sector because it's the essential sector for the Basque development and brings out a social and economic development. I'm sure it's always helped the first sector, Mrs. Larrea, and that's how she's going to keep doing. And it's essential that they're coordinated, that is, going hand in hand. And a lot of economic and technical effort has taken place in favor of the sector, because we know there are parties that have to be improved, like young people bringing them to first sector, to encourage generation-relation or modification, in order to improve competitiveness. But it must also be recognized that it is a sector in which many people do not want to work, precisely, for what I have commented, because they do not know schedules and, in order for people to value that work, they must dignify it. And that goes through specialization through training. Only in this way will their workers have quality of life. To dignify is to try to generate good forms of work, because to make the sector attractive and people want to work in it they have to provide quality of life to those people. If you're going to be working all day without rest or holidays, it's normal that you don't want to work there. Or would you, knowing you weren't just going to have rest? Because we are talking about a sector that needs labour, but it is not attractive. And, on the other hand, you have to have specialized people. Not everyone, as has been said here, knows how to work with animals, neither to milk nor to prune. And no farm owner wants his employees or employees to know how to carry out their tasks. Quite the opposite. Obviously, they want them to be trained and trained, and to be able to attend to their work more effectively. That is why we are betting on training, because it is necessary today to carry out the various tasks that must be carried out. Specialized training, covering the specific needs of the sector and generating confidence among the people who are going to do the work and between the owners of the farms. Only in this way will greater added value be achieved, professionalizing the sector, generating employment and facilitating much-needed population fixation in rural environments. But making the sector attractive and modernising it also involves reforming the CAP. For this it is essential to have a strategic plan of its own, designed from the consensus among the actors involved, because the defence of the interests of the sector has to be done from collaboration and closeness. This business is, indeed, the chief task of improving and promoteing the production of farmers and cattle. And the organizations and farm-growths, aided, offer such services as the representative service that has brought us here today, the traders of agriculture and farm farming, for vacations, for abilities, accidents, for motherhood and fatherhood. I mean, having a job right, like any other worker. The Euskadi agri-farms are increasingly using this service of substitutions offered by the deputies. It is true that in Álava it is not currently working because there is no demand, not for any other reason. However, in Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa it has been working well for a long time and is being attended to by all those who request it. Resources must be adapted to the demands and needs of each sector in each territory, not to the whim of political parties. With regard to the specific situation of COVID, during the pandemic, the programme of timerism has been adapted to the health situation to ensure the sprawl and harvest in Rioja Alavesa, for example. And it was possible thanks to the collaboration between the Basque Government, the Department of Health, the Arab Diputation, the UAGA and the farmers. And that is why our group understands that we must go beyond the COVID, because concrete answers have already been given to this particular question. And the pandemic will eventually end, but the needs will remain there. For this reason, we have agreed a compromise amendment with the People-Citizens Group, in which we call on all the competent institutions and the actors involved to orient workers in the search for employment for the agricultural sector, through specialized training and mediation with the applicant farms, in order to have people interested in their employment in this activity. That is to say, based on that collaboration to which I have referred and on training, to achieve the integration of people into employment in a sector that needs labour, and, as I also said, to do in a general way, beyond the situation of the current pandemic. And in conclusion, I'd like to thank Mrs. Larrea for coming to an agreement with us. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Molina. Passing the teams that don't run, Mistto. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to say that I am going to be very brief because in the various speeches that have preceded me, it has already made very clear what the problem and the situation our primary sector is facing is. There is no doubt, Mrs Larrea, that the initiative you have brought to this House for me is very successful. In this long year of pandemic, for example, we have followed closely the difficult situations of different sectors and groups, but little has really analysed the very complicated day-to-day on farms and livestock, two fundamental sectors for the whole citizenry because it is part of the population's food base. In times of harvest we knew that there were serious problems for the hiring of temporary workers, despite the fact that the field does not wait and its times do not understand pandemics, and we have heard some watch worried about the future at the risk of becoming infected and not having to hold onto to guarantee the production and the future of their companies. We believe that an exceptional situation requires exceptional measures, as we believe that the future of the agricultural sector, both Basque and Spanish, passes through the interest it generates in the new generations and, of course, through the willingness of trained workers to maintain an essential activity. Having said that, as I have already said, we see with very good eyes the proposal of the People's Party-Citizens, and it is also an initiative that they have brought to this House for very successful debate. And we also see very well the transactional that they have signed with the different groups of the Government, so we will tell them that we will support their initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u103	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together, Podemos-Sunerate representative of the united group. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u104	Good morning. First of all, I would like to acknowledge the opportunity of the debate. Indeed, there has been no occasion, over the past few months, to talk about the reality of farmers in relation to the extraordinary moment we are experiencing, the result of the COVID, which was basically the original reason for Mrs Larrea's initiative. It is true that data from the agribusiness sector are dramatic. It has suffered very important issues, both by COVID and for other reasons – these have been explained here – both because of issues that have already been structural, such as the difficulty in generational change, and because of more global situations, such as tariffs between the United States and Europe, which have recently been temporarily eliminated. But in any case, the data is who they are. The value added of this sector has been reduced by 26,3 % compared to the quarter of the previous year and by 15,3 % compared to the third quarter of the year. They are dramatic data of the decline in the sector, and we also believe that the trend is likely to remain unfavourable if we do not tackle this reality as soon as possible. But going to the extraordinary circumstances of the COVID and the situation of farmers or livestock farmers, the reality – and it has been mentioned here – is that farmers and livestock cannot telework or negotiate an ERT, and on many occasions they cannot hire people to replace them because the numbers do not give. A large winery company or a multinational company may be able to make use of its resources to replace a worker by another or another, but self-employed or family-owned midwives will often not be able to dispose of the necessary resources to alleviate these cost overruns that – let's not forget – are to hire people to replace them while they are on medical leave due to COVID. This was the original meaning of the proposal. It is true that it has finally become a transactional one that basically talks about actions in favor of or mechanisms to guide in the hiring of people who come to replace those who live these dramatic situations in the future, and once we pass the COVID, in a more normalized dynamic. We believe that the truth is that it is to dilute, to a large extent, the original spirit of the proposal. We believe that we do not, under any circumstances, talk about direct aid to these groups – as is mentioned, by the way, in the amendment of EH Bildu – we believe that it is a loss in the negotiating process that they have had and, in this case, the reason why we are not going to be able to vote in favour of the transactional, because we were not going to vote in favour of the amendment of the parties that support the government. If we thought we had a favourable position on the original of the People's Party, even considering that it lacks many things. We believe that the amendment put forward by EH Bildu in relation to both the job exchanges and the direct lines of aid in the case of substitutions addresses much more fully what has to do with the case study of the problem of base-rhythms and base-rhythms at an extraordinary time such as the one we live in by COVID. We believe that the Basque Government, both in this sector and in others, does not deal with direct aid or with the necessary economic contribution to deal with the situation that we are experiencing with extraordinary precariousness and lack of horizons. In the midst of the pandemic, we find it regrettable that billionaire ideas and funds are usually for healthy multinationals or, failing that, as we were talking about the other day in a full-scale check-up, for the hydrogen corridor or for companies "in crisis" such as Iberdrola, with millionaire billing records, and not so in cases such as those we are mentioning right now, which do not address themselves with the courage necessary direct aid to the sector in the case of substitutions. I already said that we are much more in line with the amendment put forward by EH Bildu in terms of direct support for farmers and livestock farmers who need to hire people to replace them by being on leave with COVID. That is why we will support this amendment. While we would like to point out that we have always focused all this direct aid on conditionalities, that is, we have always talked about direct aid being granted conditionally, where appropriate, on the maintenance of employment or on certain issues that we believe need to be put on the table so that they are not received by large agricultural enterprises and that they have not been affected in their billing. We also think it is appropriate to create the work bags mentioned in the amendment and to train people – which is true that this is part of the transactional – to work on agricultural farms, and to do so the collaboration between the primary sector and Lanbide is necessary. In any event, as I said, we believe that the Basque Government could make use, in fact, of the COVID fund which it established in its Budgets to tackle the situation in this sector and to make use of those resources to propose direct aid in the case of the need for substitutions, and not to link aid to the sector exclusively to the policy of subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u105	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Passing the answer shift, representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadans. Your word is yours, Your Highness.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u106	It is clear, after all the speeches, that it was necessary to talk about this issue in this parliamentary seat, apart from the structural problems that the agricultural sector has with regard to the maintenance of its farms, because, as I said in my first speech, the majority are small, they are familiar. I would like to say that I am grateful for the willingness of the groups that have accepted the transaction because it is about starting from a few peaks and trying to reach agreements, and that is what we have tried with this transaction, to reach agreements to put the first foot and the first base to deal with a sector that really has, and will have in the future, needs for us to get back on the subject and to go much deeper into its need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u107	Thank you. EHGD rep. Mrs. Housekeeper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u108	[[Microphone Off spoke]] ...was short enough for us, it's true, and it's true that the Eubertians were introduced to the Basque Socialists. But today, without having been able to speak to anyone and agree to anything, we have heard of a middle-way, and when we read the content, we have filled our mouths with teeth. Mrs. Larrea, I really don't understand anything. You proposed a replacement service for people in the first sector affected by COVID, with specific reference to outlaws and representatives of the livestock sector, and you ended up signing a transaction with the groups that support the government without any concrete action. "Competent institutions and the actors involved". So complicated is to say who we're talking about? "In order to have people interested in their employment in this activity". Where are replacement services to be provided, Mrs. Larrea? Because it's not the same. It doesn't sound the same and it's not the same as what he signed. I can understand that the Basque Nationalists and the Basque Socialists have reached this agreement, which is completely empty, simply covers the file so that it seems that something is done while everything is left exactly the same. But yours, honestly, I don't understand. Because it is one thing to give up something and another thing to forget about the initiative that has been presented and to sign a totally hollow statement. And he has not even bothered to talk to us and try to reach an agreement, when he knows perfectly well that in other institutions an agreement has been reached with us and with other groups, with a very different content. And I say you know that because the justification of your GNP is an exact transcript of what your partner at the Arab General Councils said. In juntas yes and not here? What's going on, we're seeing more here? His partner's intervention has heard it; has the transactional one read it? For the record, I would like to summarise the points that were contained in it, so that we can compare. First point, free replacement service and telematically processed; second point, line of aid to cover the costs of replacement services for holidays, sick leave or accidents and maternity or paternity; third point, collaboration with Lanbide, UAGA and Abere to accompany and guide people seeking employment and to have a job market. It's similar, isn't it? I don't know what this looks like to what you signed today. PNV and PSOE did not support the transactional in Juntas, and today, I'm sorry to say, they won him the game. They're rubbing their hands. It was not the initiative of the groups, it was yours; but you and your group do not lose, you lose the quality of life, the Basque primary sector, and you lose the possibilities of relief and you lose rural development. And the recognition they owe has remained, as always, in words. So, of course, we will vote against and defend our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u110	President. I would say that the agreement is important, and the agreement is good because it is true that different paths can be taken in politics. You can make the policy of gestures, you can make the policy of propaganda, of wanting to speak for the gallery or you can make a more pragmatic policy, reach agreements, go to the bottom of the problems and try to put remedies. That is precisely what, not starting from there, it is true that Mrs Larrea's initiative has ended there, because, indeed, in this exchange of views we have found that the problem is not to make a provision by which a credit line is enabled so that those farms in which they need their holders can be replaced by some circumstances, but rather that in the problem – and it is enough to touch the land, talking in addition to the agriculture, which touches the land – it is enough to talk to the farmers themselves and farmers, who in particular in Álava proposed for what we want a line of subsidies for contracts if we do not have workers to hire. And this is what has been intended to address. It has not been intended to follow the course of another initiative of the General Councils of Álava, which had an advertising component, which is logical, of the opposition groups. Indeed, in Álava the debate was held by the opposition side in the terms you have pointed out, Mrs Etxebarria, but it must also be said that that was not approved. Therefore, well, he remained in a testimony of the groups, nor did he become a practical part of any policy; that is, neither do we give solemnity to what ends up being an opinion. Let us give solemnity to what allows us to move forward, to what allows us to resolve. And this is the spirit of the agreement. If we don't have workers to replace on farms, what do we do? Well, we have to look for people who are willing to train to work in a sector that has its complication and, in addition, to offer it a type of work in which continuity has to be managed because it is for very short spaces of time and for multiple tasks, and also there has to be a certain mobility within the territory and between territories, that is, not easy. And in fact, as everyone knows, to nothing that there is a bit of intensive work in the agricultural sector in the Basque Country it is necessary that workers come from other autonomous communities, because there is not enough here. The final outcome of the initiative is therefore its weight and importance, because it affects an economic sector, but it also affects an opportunity to train in order to create jobs directly and so that they can be managed on farms. Therefore, here in Parliament today, we are taking a step with an interinstitutional commitment between the Government, which knows that it has the activity of training for employment, economic development, which also has its competence, and the outlaws, which are the ones who have to organise this training, these labour exchanges and this subsequent management of the workers. If one looks at the aid that already exists in Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa in this respect, there is not the figure of COVID, but there are all the others: maternity leave, paternity leave, vacation leave, marriage; finally, for other things. They already exist. And, if you look at the endowments, the endowments let's say they're not to throw rockets. Well, they don't run out, that is, it's not a direct problem of economic resources, it's a problem of availability of workers. And for that, it is best to talk to the agricultural and livestock organisations, and they will explain it very well and see how they are in line with what we are agreeing today in this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u111	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Ms. Molina, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u112	Thank you, Mr. President. From our group, when we put forward the amendment, we put it as a push for employment to help the sector, that is, we go much further. And we believe that the agreement we have reached is a good agreement, because the original initiative spoke of a specific type of substitution. And, besides, the replacement service is already being offered, it is that I have commented on it in my first intervention and the rest have commented on it. In Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa it works perfectly. In Álava it was eliminated for lack of demand, because there was no demand. So, if there's no demand, where's the problem? Economically? You know that it worked, that there was budget item with Abere, that it was in collaboration, you know it perfectly well. And then, of course, there is a very ugly custom here in this Parliament that when an agreement is reached that is not of interest it is despised, and more so if the agreement is between the groups that we support the government, which then do not want to participate and say that it is not a good agreement. Well, then don't talk about the will, because the will is clear. And then, it is also curious that Mrs Etxebarria accuses us that it is an empty initiative, which always says the same thing, when you in point two urge the Basque Government to do what the outside parliaments are already doing. Less content than that, then, I don't think there is, do you? And then, Mr Soto, who were also not going to vote for ours, of course, let him say what he said, and the PP's lacks things. Look, do you know what initiative you lack things and will? Yours, which you haven't introduced. Because when it comes to agriculture and livestock it is that they present absolutely nothing. And, well, if it's about ignorance, look, it's even justifiable, but if it's about you giving absolutely the same rural world, it's not only not just just justifiable, it's also insulting. So I insist that we are facing an opportunity and not a problem. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Molina. Mist must not speak. Together, the representative of the United States of Podemos, has the word. Then the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u114	First of all, in my initial speech I have already commented that our initial proposal, that is, what we intended to do at the outset was to support the initiative of the People's Party, because, in fact, it was online, as mentioned, with what our political formation has already supported in other institutions. It is true that in the speech we were going to mention certain issues that seemed to us to be missing, as direct lines of support – we thought that it was quite vague in its original wording – and in that sense there has been no proposal for an amendment. What has indeed surprised us is that, finally, what is certain that we were not going to support, that it was the amendment put forward by the parliamentary groups supporting the Government, where we believe the original meaning of the proposal is diluted, because, there, of course, we were not going to support the proposal now converted into a proposal of the People's Party as well. Because we believe that – I say – it does not address the original reason why the proposal was formulated, which was to address a very concrete situation arising from COVID, and it has been derived from something that is said to go much further, which is a structural problem, which we share, but this is not the purpose of the issue. Here we were talking about support for temporary recruitment as a replacement for COVID. We felt that it was essential to put forward direct lines of support and, in turn, to do so in coordination – which is set out in the amendment put forward by EH Bildu in this case – with the sectors involved, which is not set out in the one put forward by the parties supporting the Basque Government, and, in turn, also to establish the job market. In this regard, we continue to support our position, which will be that of not supporting the proposal put forward by the groups supporting the Government and in this case also with the support or acquiescence of the People's Party, and of supporting the amendment put forward in its entirety.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u115	Thank you, Mr. Soto. End of discussion, we'll vote for the popular-Ciudadans, the Basque Socialists, and the Middle Amendment signed by the Eucalists. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting were 43; 75; the supporters, 47; the opponents, the contrary, 28; the abstainments, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-11.u116	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was three o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-two.
