ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u0	Good morning, everyone. Let's start the entire Union. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, Louis Javier Tellería Errools, a member of the staff of the U.S.R.A.S.R.S.A.S.A.st. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u1	Good morning, President, congressmen, head physician of the Medical Department. As soon as the president named you, you've come every week to the Medical Committee to answer questions and to clear our doubts about the pandemia development. We thank you for your efforts to share your information with all the rest of the members of the legislature with some transparency. But today, we'd like to answer a specific question. We want to know why, you think, we're following Eukadin the insertion strategy, that is, the strategy to guarantee the two doses of vaccine. As you know today, March 5th will be nine weeks in the countries of Eukadin and European Union since the process of intradiction against COVID-19. From that moment you had to deal with so many unexpected things, which probably affected the planning you had planned. For instance, the amount of the doses produced at the beginning by a producer of vaccines or the producers of vaccines did not complete the dues and the amount of supplies first agreed on. On the other hand, nine weeks ago, since this trial began, some of the representatives of this legislature have reproached you that the strategy we're following in Eucharin is wrong, and that we're slowing up other countries and autonomy communities. In their opinion, the vaccines must be distributed as quickly as possible, and the more people as possible, without reserve for the second dose. But today, at least, it doesn't seem that the European Committee, or the European Medical Agency, or the other medical commissions, have been shared or recommended by scientists. So, being different from the point of view, and considering the development of Eukadin, we want to know the following: Why did you decide to ensure the two doses of vaccine is the best strategy?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u2	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u3	Mr. President of the Parliament, President, chairman of the department, members of the legislature, all good days. You all know, at this moment, in the world, there are two basic tactics of intradictions: that is to say, to give only the first doses, or to place the vaccination of less than the population, but with a greater degree of immunity, namely, with the second dose. From Euskaki, it has an insertion strategy: processing the insertion collective priority and insertion process. The opposite strategy of the covid implant is based on the common strategy of all the community. This strategy is approved by the National Medical Security Committee, and foresees two doses of present vaccines, that is, in the predication of each of them's technical record. The first of the teams is the board of the Public Health. What wasn't the same has been the planning of insertion. From the beginning of the trial, which might have been a supply problem, he decided to create a reserve that would guarantee the second dose from Euskaca. This automatically puts us in pursuit of other autonomy communities, with regard to the relations between received vaccines and given vaccines. We knew, but we concluded that it was more important to guarantee immunity. And what's the conclusion? That we have had to use that reserve on more than one occasion, that other communities that relied on a regular supply have not been able to administer the second doses in their time. Planning is right. Beyond that reserve, Euskadi vaccinates everything that comes, because it has the capacity to do so. This planning also provides for the collaboration of other actors with competence in occupational health, such as prevention and mutual services. It provides for the use of larger and more accessible spaces than Osakidetza's own facilities, when the volume of vaccination requires it. It even provides for home vaccination for the most vulnerable. As a result of that planning, we have also decided to expand vaccination points in Osakidetza. They know that the transfer and handling of vaccines is complex. We have been working for several days on the possibility of enabling more vaccination points as planned, and we can announce that in Euskadi we will move from the current 25 points to 117 new vaccination points. From 25 to 117 inserted point. This is the result of the schedule. Until yesterday, we got 249,000 vaccine from these... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... it is a consequence. Until yesterday, we got 249,000 vaccines from which are in reserve for 44,000 second doses. We've given 148,000 doses in total, and from this day until Friday, including the weekend and next Friday, we've planned to hand it over to 47,000 implants. Only yesterday did we put them above 10,000 vaccine. So I'm asking you to be patient, citizen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u4	Thank you, chief physician. Time is up. Time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u5	...but that you may know all the Osasides as we arrive ('... ???????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u6	Time is up. Time is up. Second point on the subject list: "The question is, I've been asked by the Congressman of the Maddalen Irina Presidency to the president, the balance of the Pandemia." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u7	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. Urkullu. It's been a year since the Basque Country that the first cases of COVID-19 were discovered, we are entering into the time of vaccine, but we are face to face with a permanent and complex pandemia. The voices that say we're in front of a symbol are more and more, and if you're only answering from a biometic point of view, they say there'll be a fracasso. We look upon it as a necessary examination of what has been made to arrive at the challenge, and that is why you are bulleting, Mr. Urkullu, I ask you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u9	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. Ladies and gentlemen, two shots can be made: one, the human balance, and the other the management. I think I'll have a chance to do it longer, in short. In human balance memory and solidarity prevail, many people and families have lost someone close to them, or have suffered a long hospital. We've wanted to express our empathy and solidarity more than words here. Sempervirens, always thinking. The balance of the administration, as we all have, has been handling the constant struggle against an unknown and very serious virus. For 12 months we had to deal with unknown problems. Every difficulty has been a continual labour to overcome very serious difficulties, and we have been obliged to provide a remedy for each course of water. We've had problems, just like everybody else, and we'll have them, but we've answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u11	I will not deny you the complexity of the situation, Mr. Urkullu, but the infected and the deaths have been thousands of years, the rate of mortality at 2,4. We were told to live with virus, but that means more than two people will die from 100. And it was not successful to anticipate the virus, no proper or structural response was given to Osamate. And I wonder where those eight o'clock applause of the evening stayed. A year, but your government seems to have missed some things. The health system needs to be strengthened, but in the Osata companies the workers continue to be drowned and their first attention is very weak. Pandemia has had a very serious economic influence on thousands of people, if you don't go out and see those who are in the ERTA or have failed to work, or if you like. The security area needs a deep transformation. We believe that the common standard of government is essential to us, and that it was your model for college, as if the whole majority were just justifying everything. And the situation must be more transparency and clearer criteria. And thus we have reached the height of vaccination, the great triumph of science. And look, Mr. Urkullu, you have thousands of people lying on the phone waiting for Osakidetza to call them to be vaccinated. And they're people over 80 and 90, and they're waiting. But you have not been able to make at least an approximate calendar. People who have brought this country to this place. I'm just gonna tell you one thing about the many I could tell you about the vaccination process. Vaccinate more, Mr Urkullu, vaccunate more people and vaccunate faster. Nos acaba de explictor cuál es la strategy. Yo puedo entender que se puedan alar aguas para solar apussur, sulgundas para todas las personas. But it's the least vaccine community we've ever put in reserve for 1,000 vaccines. What are they for? What are they waiting for? Or is it a problem that Osacides has no real resources to put all these together? 110,000 vaccines stored, almost 50% of those available. What are we waiting for? People tell it, doctors tell it, scientists tell it, entrepreneurs tell it. Everybody's telling him. And I understand that you'll have to keep a few doses, but it's that 110,000 vaccines is one thing I can't explain. (... We are in the presence of an historic, that is evident, and we shall have to modify the standards which have hitherto existed, and it is a terrible challenge that is laid upon us on the table, not only cosmetic. We'll have to face this crisis with double unemployment than in the last crisis, with a greater prevarication, poverty with worse data and a complete generation that has only known a crisis. The young man has only known the space between two fits of crisis. And this compromises us and our successors and demands that we unite the strength of the community. And we haven't even been able to discuss or... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... collecting strength. Nor have we been able to make a thorough discussion or examination of the funds of Europe which may be so important to this people. The leadership for the access to this port, a strong public service and a purpose to protect people, to protect people without leaving anyone aside. That's our goal, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. You can highlight two attitudes in front of the situation we live in. One is positive, the attitude of the majority of society, which has been fully conscious of the difficulty, and has been ready to assist. The other, the negative and the negative, the attitude of a minority who used to stick on the wheels. As I said, we've been trying to find solutions to problems, and I'll give you only three examples. One, physical health. In March or April the problem was the want of equipment, respirators, or kisses to protect oneself, and the want of plenty in the world. The problem was the ability to do tests, bahets, searches, problems in hospitals and the ZIUs. These problems had a effective solution, organized the centralized purchase system, increasing the ability to do tests, bahets, and searches. Membership has answered, and has been able to answer with its own resources, avoiding any collapse. Two, education. In the confidence of the first wave, the exposition before was interrupted. The first college where Euskadin closed, and after that we were the first to open up with a preventive protocol. In the second wave the same danger was proposed, and the Board of Education answered, and the Board of Education answered. All the agents, thanks to their cooperation, will be able to guarantee their earlier education in this year. The balance is clear: the rooms are 99% open. Three. You mentioned the crisis, the economy and the job. It is a great and terrible blow of the Pandemia now. We're offering all the organizational responses. First waves with covid fund and economic incentives. More answers, 2020 budgets, bearable eupskadi bono, resurrect or Euskadi the Thu program, or 2021 budgets. Do you want me to remind you what your attitude was in front of all these economic answers? You have approved the general budgets of the state and here amendment to the whole of the Basque budgets. In Madrid they have supported the Spanish strategy of European funds and here I criticize the government for the Euskadi Next programme. In Madrid, it guarantees the minimum income, without worrying about the invasion of Basque competitions. I met with you four months ago waiting for an attitude change, we're going to meet again in two weeks, I'm still waiting for a positive attitude change in the face of a pandemic that's going to continue to affect us in the negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "The question is, that the members of the American American Socialists of the United States have made to the head of the planetal Plant, Housing and Transportal Department for 2020 periods on the results of the Housing Guide. " Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u15	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning, everyone. In 2015 this same House approved the Housing Law, promoted by the Basque Socialists, a milestone for the history of this country that, of course, produced a turning point in housing policies, giving it an infinitely more social character. The Department of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport has recently announced that it will begin the process of developing the Housing Master Plan 2021-2023. These plans reflect the philosophy, the guidelines, the programmes, the commitments of housing policies in Euskadi and are fundamental tools for advancing the development of that housing law that we promoted at the time by the Basque Socialists and that today is directed and that today, in some way, gives the direction to those policies the department that you lead, Mr Arriola. The previous Housing Master Plan, 2018-2020, incorporated for the first time in its approach the spirit of that law. The objective was clear: to guarantee the social role of housing and the subjective right of citizens to have a decent roof to live in. Of course, this Housing Master Plan was, first and foremost, an unequivocal boost to rental policies, with 100 per cent of public policy promotions for rent being a significant development in this regard, the development of state-owned accommodation, the mobilization of empty private housing for sheltered rent. Secondly, this master plan has promoted policies aimed at more efficient management of the protected housing stock, giving a social dimension and, above all, putting Alokabide as an absolute reference. Thirdly, procedures for awarding and accessing protected housing have improved. Fourthly, it has opted for rehabilitation, accessibility, energy efficiency and much more sustainable housing, which has also been an impetus to policies for the regeneration of the most degraded neighbourhoods. Fifthly, it has also brought about an innovation in the implementation of other models that are adapted to the needs of the population, especially in policies aimed at young people, with the Gaztelagun programme which gives them the opportunity to emancipate themselves and, no doubt, to develop their life plan in Basque. Or also pushing friendly housing into what a new... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ...and, no doubt, to develop his life project in Euskadi. Or by also promoting friendly housing in what is a new strategy to give an opportunity to population ageing and the elderly. Sixthly, it has strengthened collaboration among institutional actors. Institutional collaboration is also part of the key to the success of housing policies, precisely through cross-cutting policies. Once the implementation of this Housing Master Plan has been completed, the Basque Socialists group wants to ask you, with a view to the next drafting of the Housing Master Plan, whether they have carried out from their department an evaluation of the results of the Housing Master Plan for the period 2018 to 2020. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Donez. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Andueza, although only two months have passed by the end of 2020, we already have an advance in the results of the master plan that has guided Euskadi's housing policies over the past three years. As you have pointed out, this is the first master plan drawn up under the Housing Act, which we adopted in 2015 and which implemented the subjective right to housing. I will not deny that the pandemic scenario we are experiencing has conditioned the results obtained in certain parameters over the past year. But this has not, in general terms, prevented a high level of compliance with the Master Plan. Based on rental indicators, both the department and Visesa have achieved the target. Despite the impact of the temporary suspension of the works during the confinement, the department has achieved 97% of its objectives, while Visesa has exceeded them, reaching 102%. Between them, nearly 2,000 new housing units have been set up over the past three years. It must be said, however, that the overall objective of new rental housing, while exceeding 75 %, has not reached a level of excellence due to the low level of compliance with private initiative and local authorities. We are already working to change this situation and encourage its greater involvement in the immediate future with instruments such as the Housing Decree or the updating of the Order of Public Prices. The Bizigune Programme, for its part, with 6,451 empty dwellings captured for the sheltered rental market, has also exceeded the objective set out in the plan, as has aid to the most vulnerable households, through the Supplementary Housing Benefit and the Economic Housing Benefit, which have reached 33,870 beneficiaries. In addition, at this time, we have recognized the subjective right to housing for a total of 6,137 households, an indicator that has achieved a degree of compliance close to 90%. In terms of rehabilitation, it is where the covid has had the greatest impact in 2020. However, the good results achieved in the previous two years have led us to achieve high levels of compliance. In particular, the programme for private individuals and communities of owners has contributed to the rehabilitation of 29,160 housing units, 93 per cent of the target. But perhaps the most relevant information provided by the Plan Director is that in Euskadi we already have a protected rental park of 25,823 homes, a figure that far exceeds the target of 22,000 and places us in a quota of 34% of the total protected park. We know that only with a strong park in public rental housing can we meet the housing needs of citizens, but also that this can only be achieved through effort and sustained work over time. That's what we're doing from the Department of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transportation. And that's why of the 8,298 sheltered rental homes started in Spain from 2014 to September 2020, Euskadi is in second position, with 2,397, only surpassed by the Community of Madrid, which triples us in population, with 2,758. These are the data, they're the result of the work of these three years, and they tell us that...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u17	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Time is up. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, Jon Hernandez Hidalez, together with Podemos-Nozzer, members of the Antice team, made to the president about the plan of Tubacex." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u18	Thank you. Partners. Good morning. Mr. President. I was going to start by talking about the dramatic situation that 150 workers live to whom the company Tubacex intends to dismiss, but the truth is that it is not true, there are 150 workers who live a dramatic situation, there are almost 1,000 workers and their families in Tubacex, with them a whole region and with them thousands of workers from different corners of Euskadi who have shown their solidarity. The decision the company intends to execute is unnecessary for Tubacex's viability. A company that has also received and continues to benefit from public money in different formats. And precisely because of all this it is an absolutely unfair decision, and so we believe it should be said, with all its letters. I'd like to hear the president say it's unfair, that 150 fired is completely excluded. Me it was the right handcharle... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... thehendakariari entzun nahiko nioke erabaki unfair of the Esane, 150 kaleratzeak was baztertzen dituela. I would like to hear you say that they are unjust dismissals and categorically reject these unjust ones, because it is a decision that will fall like a jar of cold water in one of the Basque regions most punished by unemployment. And this is something that makes it a general problem, which directly appeals to his Government. That is why we ask you: what are you going to do to avoid these layoffs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u19	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Hernández, we are dealing with a sector that should be placed in its context, because the manufacture of pipes aimed mainly at the sector (...) gas has been slowing down since the 2008 crisis. This situation has been aggravated by other reasons: Trump's tariff policy, aggressive competition from Asia or Turkey, or project stoppage in the Middle East. In addition, this sector is highly conditioned by the energy-environment transition, given the reduction of oil use and role as the transition energy of natural gas, two resources on which Tubacex depends directly and which you, politically and ideologically, do not accept or support. In these circumstances, the general confinement and cancellation of economic activities decreed by the Spanish Government between March and June last year also did not help. And the Basque Government, from the very beginning, has launched all kinds of actions to protect activity and employment: the covid fund, managed with Elkargi, the ERTE model proposed to the Spanish Government, decrees to supplement these aid in Euskadi. So, we're still at work and we're still working. First of all, in this difficult situation to protect jobs. And, on the other hand, to rekindle the economy and promote new employment opportunities. The preliminary examples of this attitude are resurrectical Program or Basque. We believe in our example, and we'll continue to help a hundred companies and work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u22	Lehendakari jauna, his Government often lacked initiative when it came to defending jobs at risk for unfair decisions. This government always puts a profile in order not to bother companies and directors. This company has no viability problems. It has no continuity problem if it does not resort to those 150 redundancies. It's not true that I need to fire workers. He's doing well economically to fire workers, which is very different. What is intended is to take advantage of the pandemic to destroy jobs of a certain quality, which can be replaced in the future by jobs that are cheaper for the company. And, therefore, more precarious jobs, either here or elsewhere. That is why we think that the government has to oppose these redundancies, because, in addition to being unfair, of being a nightmare for 150 families, of being a misfortune for the Aiaraldea region and for the Basque industry, they are also a scam to more than 8 million euros received in aid by their governments. The managers and owners of this company must be reminded that the company was born in Euskadi and that, if it has been growing all over the world, it has been thanks to the work of the workers who now intend to leave on the street. Tubacex has had millionaire profits until the year 2012. It maintains a cash balance of more than EUR 170 million. And its managers boast in business forums and before shareholders of the good forecasts in the medium term. The Tubacex group has recently bought several companies and has also done so, in part, with public loans, from the ICO in this case. Just a year ago, he arrived at agreements with Saudi allies to expand into the Middle East and, at the same time, they intend to sell us that it is necessary to fire 150 workers in Euskadi. This is not credible to us. We believe that the company's goal, from the beginning, was to reduce staff costs to increase or maintain profits to be distributed among its shareholders. We think it is not a necessity, it is an aggression in every rule against the working class of this country. And we think that the government should defend the workers of this country. The global becoming of the company does not need to fire 150 workers in Euskadi. And that is why we believe that the Basque Government should strongly involve in supporting the workers and defending those jobs. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u23	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Hernández, I have a question about your speech and your question. And it is the defense of jobs yes, the defense of workers yes, but it is curious that it is done in relation to a company that is aimed at a sector that you constantly question. In any case, the Government is acting. In July 2020, the councilwoman announced the actions we were taking to respond, among other things, to the situation in Tubacex. This issue has been discussed within the Government and at the tables shared with the rest of public institutions, economic and social actors. It has also been analysed by the Competitiveness Institute, Orkestra, as well as by the Social Dialogue Bureau. In recent months we have continued to carry out all kinds of actions. The last example is the 68 programmes of the Department of Economic Development aimed at helping businesses with a budget of €430 million. We've been acting for a long time. I recall the interest and attention of the Basque Government with Tubacex, particularly with Tubacex, to the point where the adviser visited the company's headquarters in Austria. Besides, last week the counselor... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... with Tubacex, particularly Tubacex, to the extent that the counsellor visited the company's headquarters in Austria. In addition, last week the councilwoman continued to maintain a direct relationship with the management and trade union representation of Tubacex. A path of dialogue and mediation has been proposed to enable agreement to overcome this critical situation. The loss of employment is the worst news, and therefore both parties must explore ways to minimize traumatic exits through relocations, pre-retirements, surpluses or incentivized exits. Focusing on the medium or the long we also participate in the Energy Intelligence Center, a project to deepen the energy transition and activity with potential in emerging energies, such as wind power or (?)). The Basque Government's commitment is permanent and we will have all the help programmes to try to overcome the situation, protect the maximum number of jobs and generate new employment opportunities, this is our priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Fifth of the theme list. dot: "The question is, as Charles Iturgai, the popular Group Angulo Euscal, a member of the Ciudadans to the president, the absence of economic crisis derived from COVID-19." My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. I regret to say to you, Mr Urkullu, that yours and your Government's are the bandages and contradictions, so from my group we are going to try and put to you a stork, which may be positive because others have not been so far. Look, a few weeks ago you were announcing a Basque anti-pandemic law, you had a good mosque with court decisions and pulled that rabbit out of the txapela into a bowl and bowl. The days pass and there is no draft of that famous law, in fact, we already know that it will not bring great news, that the state of alarm prevails and that it is not even urgent its processing, that is, they sell smoke, where you said hijack the first legal report you have told them so. The same is true of vaccination here in Euskadi, disorientation and disorganization, until it is practically the autonomous community with the worst rate of vaccination throughout Spain. Is it necessary to stay on the tail of the tail to make the decision to accelerate? So, although they said that there was no need for large vaccination enclosures, they sent the cameras to Illumbe, to a whole bullring for vaccination, to the next day say no, that in Bizkaia or in Álava there would be no large enclosures, and before yesterday, again, from Pfizer say yes, that they are looking for large enclosures, please clarify. By the way, we have learned that in Euskadi there are 300,000 more health cards than inhabitants, and that the Deputy Health Counselor is a funny professional. What a department, lehendakari, what an affront to our health. Those who do not resign go for jokes, but what are frivolous, frivolous without palliatives, but remain in their position, while a cry from the Medical Union to the entrepreneurs are denouncing the risks that for everything represents the delay of vaccination. Well, with aid to the most affected sectors the same thing is happening, they announce one aid after another, with droppers. The last, 16 million to be distributed among thousands of clothing and footwear stores. In total, they stress more than 100 million in aid to different sectors, but the figure itself, lehendakari, reveals its inadequacy, today there is also a lack of support for so many sectors: hospitality, tourism, commerce, etc., as regards what is not an effective decision. There are disappearances of companies, you know, shops, bars, at a dizzying pace. The money does not come, is it not, or is it late; therefore, is it prepared, as in so many other matters, to change course and put an end to the helplessness of so many economic sectors in Euskadi and to channel its policy in the fight against the pandemic in all the sectors concerned without bandits and contradictions?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u27	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Iturgaiz, virtually all the Basque economic sectors have been and are being affected by the pandemic, as I believe all sectors throughout the world. You know this well, as you know you are receiving, in our case, the support and help of this Government and all public institutions. The bill that Euskadi has had to pay during 2020 for the pandemic amounts to 6,650 million of some, that is, the fall of our Gross Domestic Product to each of our Gross Domestic Product by nine and a half percent. Todos los secorates se there visto afectactados: hostelelía, comercio, tourism, ultura, transporte, divisionabución, em enterprises y personal de comdores, industry aeronáutic, automoción de (?)loilangas. We're working on all these sectors, and we're still, Mr. Iturgaz. We've directed the budget resources to every sector, and special support routes. It's not over. You're asking me to change my mind. Okay, but you guys? Are you ready to change criteria? Or are you going to go on with this negative and critical attitude? When we proposed the past, you didn't want to open a construction interview. You're still answering all the trouble you're talking about. If you want to improve the measurements and participate in agreeing, the door is open, Mr. Iturbiz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u30	Mr. President, you didn't want to contact us in the budget. From the top. And we all know. In the management of your Government there is a trio of components, and I want to say this to you, for most of the sectors of this country to which you were referring, which is disorder, improvisation and chaos. And besides, it's all sweetened up. You didn't want to get into that subject, but I'm going to tell you, sometimes with irony, that it's no longer ironic to pass the choteo, because getting caught up in society is when that vice-counsel comes out to give an explanation that 800 centenarians missing from the vaccination may be in Benidorm, but do you really have to endure and endure those impertinences? But do you really want to make us believe that those 800 centenarians, I don't know, are dancing in line the... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... But do we really have to endure and endure those impertinences? But do you really want us to believe that those 800 centenarians, I don't know, are dancing in line with the dove and coyote in Benidorm, in Benidorm hotels? Those hotels that are closed, besides, almost all the hotels closed there. Look, you're laughing at him, but the despair of so many sectors that your government has no support for is very real. Delays in the implementation of the aid announced are good news, and you know it. And his drop-down tactic doesn't work, it doesn't save jobs, it doesn't revive the economy in this country. And worst of all, no one believes you can reverse this situation. That's why let me tell you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u31	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u32	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Mr Iturgaiz, the strategy for negotiating budgets I believe is clear, clear, and what your strategy is too. I did not understand him very well if he meant 800 centenaries or 800 centenaries. It's not clear to me. In any case, difficulties yes, all, helplessness no, none. We are adopting measures from the first day: the ERTE and the decrees to supplement these aids, the protec tion of the re-opening of economic activity, the protocol for face-to-face education, the reallocation of the 2020 budget, the covid loan fund of 1 billion, of which 723, direct aid from all the institutions to hotels, tourism, culture or commerce, renewal plans, support programmes for the most vulnerable people, families and groups, the new covid fund of 540 million and a fund of 430 aid to small and medium-sized enterprises, housing aid, the updating of income guarantee income. We've been facing an unknown and devastating pandemic for a year. We will continue to suffer its consequences. It is true that the Government has had to change its mind on many occasions because of the necessary permanent adjustment. Here and around the world, Mr. Iturgaiz. But I help kidnappings and groups in precariousness, no; none. Closeness and support, yes, everything. All departments, all institutions are trying to solve problems, with closeness and absolute dedication. We've been through a lot, but we're closer to the exit. And this is the story of a struggle without rest in the face of the unknown, of facing unimaginable and large-scale problems. The summary is a continuous work of overcoming extremely serious problems. Every day, every day, we've had to use it thoroughly. To every difficulty, every day of water, an answer, a solution. This has been and will continue to be the dedication of the Government. We know the problems closely, first hand. I have no problem in reminding myself of that in every full control, so I can answer you publicly by explaining all the Government's action. What disgusts me, Mr Iturgaiz, is to see again that your approach and attitude remains the same, which was reflected when you did not want to sit down and negotiate the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Ask me, Madia Martíne, a member of the Mistho group of the Greys, a member of the United States, of the social consequences of trade and hospitality which have been taken in the pandade." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, counselors. We're not getting used to going over problems. We talked about thousands and thousands of dead and lost focus on each of the tragedies. We comment on the profound crisis in the hospitality sector, but we seem alien to the very hard moment that so many entrepreneurs and families are suffering. And among the causes is the management that his Government is doing of the pandemic. We cannot remain outside the concrete dramas, with names and surnames, such as those of that Victorian hotelier who had to choose between which rent to stop paying, and, of course, has been removed; or that of those who have to close. Without forgetting that there are entrepreneurs in the sector who have even taken their lives. You also know that you are responsible for this situation, so let us ask you: how do you intend to meet your responsibilities as the highest representative of the institution that has decreed closures, confinements and other restrictive measures that have condemned thousands of people to the crisis?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u35	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, we are taking responsible decisions, seeking the slightest balance between the protection of the greater good, which is health, and the lowest possible cost to society. And a comparison can be made between the closure of certain sectors and the incidence of hospital pressure. But in a comparison, for example, in INE data, there has been a 35% increase in competition processes in the hospitality sector in the Spanish State; in Euskadi, 16%. Mrs. Martínez, INE data: This incidence was total in house confinement, and remains high in those cases where the established measures are not met. And I repeat again, the only enemy is the virus, the only enemy is the virus, and our best help is to comply with all measures with rigour and responsibility. We are activating all means of aid to the most affected sectors. This week the Governing Council has re-adopted new measures of economic support for trade. They are in addition to those already approved for tourism, hospitality and commerce. Last year we approved EUR 70 million of aid, and this first quarter we have already approved an additional EUR 37 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínnez, your word is... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] Mr President. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u38	President Señor. Since this pandemic broke into our hands, from that first state of alarm, the panorama for hoteliers, tourism companies and businesses that depend on the sector has been getting worse day by day. They've never had a choice. The mandatory closures condemned them without reference, and many have lost everything: their business and much of their future, and even as I told you before, life. Yesterday I was with one of the victims of the management of this government, one of many hoteliers, and told us everything he had to do to adapt his premises to the health requirements. How he lives, without knowing what is going to happen a few days away, because the executive hides essential information from him. And it conveyed to us the deep anguish of knowing that the invoices will continue to arrive, without being sure of being able to pay them and, moreover, without having the means to generate what to pay them with. We are also talking about that Thursday in which, at night, a month of closure was announced, only 24 days in advance; about what he did with the genre he had accumulated, about the varapalo that he assumed without notice. And we also commented on the breath of hope that came to him from the hands of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, which allowed him to reopen and re-enter money. It also affected your management, Mr Urkullu, showing that in this pandemic you decide without reports that you support nothing; well, without forgetting that Pennsylvania report – remember –, which I hope you have been able to review because it is enlightening. If it is shown that the closures of bars and restaurants have been arbitrary, their responsibility can cost the Public Administration, that is, to all of us, many euros, as the opacity and lack of transparency with which it is operating is costing a lot of money: their apparent improvisation, that aid plan that they have designed without external participation and that you know is manifestly insufficient. All this is costing the Basque Country a good part of one of its most important sectors, hospitality, which is also an important part of our way of life, Basque, which you so much defend: our culture. Since the beginning of the pandemic, I have not heard you say once that a measure or a decision may not have been correct. If we have heard of blaming citizens, calling ourselves irresponsible, calling into question the management that is being done in the restaurants and bars of the pandemic, but nothing more. Mr Urkullu, whether you like it or not, you are most responsible for what is happening, for what is going well but also for what is going badly. And the hospitality and tourism sector, the trade that offers products to these services, goes frankly wrong. There are business closures, loss of income, destruction of employment, poor prospects for the future, incomeless families and poverty. And what are you responsible for, Mr. Urkullu? It is neither transparent, nor listening, nor going down to the bar to listen and understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u39	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, your question, the argument that accompanies you, demonstrates your disinterest in all the explanations I have offered, which the Government, the Councillors and Councillors have offered, or myself these months. Moreover, today there is a lack of respect, once again absolute, for the professionals who make up the Scientific-Technical Commission of LABI. I'm under an obligation to start over from the beginning. Euskadi, and the whole world, suffers from a global pandemic that has caused more than two and a half million deaths; it is a public health problem of unknown dimensions. And the only way to deal with the transmission of the virus by aerosols is to limit as much mobility and social interactions as possible, especially in indoor spaces. Do you remember, Mrs Martínez, the lack of knowledge that led to the smoking of streets and infrastructures, the debate on gloves, like so many other things? This pandemic involves applying severe restrictions, both on people's way of life and on the normal development of businesses, activities and businesses. And I repeat, we are taking responsible decisions, seeking the best balance between the protection of the greater good of health and the lowest possible cost to society. Repeat. ERTE and its complement, protocol to preserve commercial and industrial economic activity, Covid Fund, direct aid from all public institutions, social programmes to help people, families and the most vulnerable sectors. The liquidation of the 2020 budget shows that we have allocated €851 million to covid-related expenditure. With the new budget, we have approved the Covid Fund of 540 million and an additional 430 million aid to businesses. You should make a comparison between the aid approved in Euskadi and that applied in other autonomous communities. We are helping to contain the situation. This February's job creation data, for example, has been very good news. I assure you that we will succeed in overcoming this situation. I have full confidence that we will be able to reactivate the economy, return to the path of growth and job recovery. Today, he read in the headlines of a television channel, which grew in January and February, 173 %, 173 % of the competition processes in the hospitality sector in the state. Look, we're gonna need three years for recovery, but it's starting this same year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the Wild House and the Congress of the Levants of the Levant, the state of the campaign of March 8 in the institutions of the President." Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u42	Good morning, President. You've chosen a remarkable motto for March 8 this year, a correct question: "Who takes care of her? "I don't know. And, moskeo campaign, we're turning all the people we've seen on the billboard. Who looks after him? Well, I think we have it pretty clear: the women are those who bear the burden of the watch. And in this campaign, you don't even make them visible, even though you're starting to choose this, the City of Bilbo... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... those who bear the burden of watch-work. And in this campaign you don't even make them visible, even if you're starting to choose, you'd rather have this, than the City Hall of Bilbo, "Y tú cómo estolas seeded"? "Looking only at the woman. Come on, here too we have the answer, juggling and without the co-responsibility of men or institutions. Because the problem is not that women do not know that care continues to fall on them this March 8, or that still today images of the superwoman able to manage everything in the lives of others and always in the background of her own. The problem this March 8th is what you are willing to do from the institutions so that this does not continue to happen. Zer egiteko lend donoden institutionak egora honori buelta emateko. Zuen azpileloak dio emakume eta gizonen erakundeen eta gizarte bearen ardura da, baina behingoagatik emakumeak lehen planan jartzeari uzzi eta jar ezazue solik jopuntaua zuen arduran. Does the institution take care of him, Mr. Urkullu?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. The house-house, yes, is guarded by institutions and families and society. This, indeed, is the campaign which you have mentioned, in particular opening an invitation to reflect on the division of care. Why? It's because it's all ours to look after. Because care requires separation between women and men, including society and institutions. Because this is a job you all have to do. After all, it makes society organized by care, and, on the other hand, a society more human. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u46	It is necessary that they should take the responsibility to oppose this situation, and that they should regulate alliances and alliances. And we're a diagnosis. We've been watching the crisis watching the feminists, unions, social agents and institutions of the Basque Country on March 8th. But some people's work is to compete, to ask attention, and others to start specific politics. We must not forget that although the myth and the diagnosis of state are repeated over and over again, in the strategic sector, as in the pandemy time, as in the essential sectors that have left their skin in food and education, most of them are women. And yesterday, for instance, there was a strike. They were women too. They were just asking for care and care of the guards. Because there are some here who are already watching, that care is over women. We all know, and here it has been repeated several times that women have taken most of the duties which have taken upon themselves to defend the pandemy and the necessities of this society, in domestic affairs, in domestic affairs. And it is absolutely necessary to discuss the management of this pandemy, because this management is improving an unjust and unbalanced system. In this transition to another watch pattern, to make that pattern public and common, we need policy to acknowledge, value, and directly distribute watches. And therefore we need institutions which will speak of their duty and their duty, and not of the institution which will be marked by others. Because it's so hard? () Did you think it was legitimate to put the feminist movement of the Basque Country on the spot? Since you got to the government, ever all this time, have you met the feminist movement? Moreover, if you were conscious of this anxiety during the last months, did you call it a feminist movement? For in this way you must have observed that they are dead, and that these necessary mutations have been desecrated, as much as possible, by taking measures. And you spread your messages through the media, and there's some machirus, you've given them the way to criticize feminist movements. I don't say that's the point, but that's what he's talking about these days. And, lo, que vamos de año, ya habido 532 movilitianes. That's why it's time for us to get to those stupid things that are mobilized and get together.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Houseboy, I want to remind you, there's an organization where we all share. His name is the organization that everyone participates in. Anyway, we've gone on to the surveillance organization. We've established rights in the four decades, and we've encouraged society's health or education control system. Can that system improve? Yes, certainly, but he offers a basis of equity, and we want to keep spreading it, and we need it. If we have new examples of this enlargement, you speak of concrete politics: the same parent permission, and the unrecognisable ency of the whole State, is a pioneer; the assistance of making labour and family compatible, and of hiring professionals for watchfulness; of extending the service always; of making public aids and plans of equality in companies; of establishing the law for equality here in the law of law. The bill of law is more extensive than the work of the house and the care of the house. Or what we agreed here yesterday, in the manner of payment for what it will be intended for to begin reflection, in the course of those planned and planned friends and coming to facilitate duty. So that, after having received his request, he will be able to pay more flexiblely than he now is. And that's what I'm gonna do. Not the burden of others or the neck of others. That's the way organization commitment to March 8th. This year we tried to emphasize the value of equality in custody. It's obvious that the surveillance work is still a big deal for women... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... the value of equality in care. It is evident that the carefulness of the care of women is still more applicable to women. It's obvious. The message is that these tasks must be shared more among women and men, even between public institutions and families, among companies and third sector. Mrs Etxebarrieta, social protection and cooperation between sectors are signs of the identity of this government, so we articulate a comprehensive policy of care with all sectors. Our condition is that good care is a social investment and a key tool for the development of this country and the organization of society. The social reorganization of care involves expanding public responsibility and also greater co-responsibility of men, families, businesses, the third social sector, institutions and the community as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "I'm asking you, Madia Martíne, the Presidency Committee of Misto, the First Vice President and Chief of Security, about responsibility for the design of the device which the staff of Tubaceše protested in Ladium." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u50	Good morning, Vicelehendakari first and Security Advisor. The reason for this question is clear and simple, on February 23 in Llodio, in a context of protests by Tubacex workers from the Department of Security a device of insecurity, security, forgiveness, insufficient was designed. So much so, that the balance sheet could not be worse: 13 agents of the Mobile Brigade and three others of Citizen Protection injured. It wasn't hard to see what could happen. In this sense, how do you value performance? How do you interpret the facts? Will there be consequences of any kind for the person responsible for the device? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u51	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Grisaleño, you ask me if I consider the organized device appropriate. The answer is yes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u53	Ma'am, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u54	Mr. Ekoreka, the facts are known to all. There were high times when violence refers, for example, to the entry and exit of workers who did not support the protest. The issue, in addition to those wounded by the Ertzaintza, is the assumption of responsibilities and, as I say, not only for the wounded, but also for the image that has been attempted to move from the police force, as if we were faced with a case of police exception, of excessive unjustified violence, an excessive attack by the security officers on the demonstrators. And we are concerned about this drift of trying to criminalize those who enforce the law, those who maintain the law and order. Was there violence, were there wounded and arrested on 23 February? Yeah. The point is to look for the causes, the reasons why it all ended up such a bad thing. And the reality is that, knowing how the moods were among the workers, only 23 Mobile Brigade Unit personnel were sent, a number clearly insufficient. You may be excused from the argument of lack of strength, but that is not the case. That same day, at the base of Iurreta, there remained still 27 more agents, more than you had commanded. In conclusion, we send in precarious conditions our agents and, then, when things go wrong, far from explaining what happened, from purifying responsibilities, arrive and criminalize our agents, grotesque style that in no way benefits our society. We are entering a dangerous slippery slope and we demand force in the defense of police action and we ask you today, be forceful in the defense of our agents. To this day we have seen lukewarmness, no gesture of support on his part, no attempt to study the case and clear up responsibilities. And that's important, very important. Every day we see more paintings, posters, insults, even street riots against the police, with the sole aim of ending them. Police seen as public enemy number one. This, in our view, Mr Erkoreka, is intolerable. You are the first Vice-Lehendakari, a notable member of the strongest party in the Basque Country. Their actions have consequences and their lack of support to the police gives gasoline to these anti-system movements, to all those who want to end the basic principle that makes coexistence possible, which are law and order. We understand that you may have problems, so you have to choose between defending the Ertzaintza or taking responsibility for the position designed by the security device, it is in your hand. We've got it all figured out. We are proud of our police and defend their actions. The problems come from mismanagement, from bad decisions when organizing these actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u55	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Grisaleño, let me start with a strong statement and two previous considerations. The strong statement is that I will not tolerate saying that I do not support Ertzaintza, that I have done it systematically, whenever it has been necessary to do so. Two preliminary considerations. Look, neither this advisor nor any of the other people who are part of the political team of the Department of Security designs any police operation, none, always do so with much more authority and rigour than the Ertzaintza professionals who have professional training and preparation for it. Second. I am not in favour of open public debates on the scope and content of police devices and operations for two reasons: firstly, because this undermines their effectiveness, a publicly managed operation is an already useless operation that serves nothing and, secondly, because it can end up compromising the very safety of the people involved in them. You're talking about a conflict that's not over yet. In any case, if you want to bring up and open public debates on this issue, then I will have no choice but to accommodate your desire. Good. Against what you affirm and defend, look, what I maintain is, first, that neither foresight nor ability to react to the situations that have occurred, both, by the way, absolutely essential to respond to conflicts that are not confined to a day, but that are prolonged for several days, as is happening in this case. Look, in this case there was no lack of foresight because the heads concerned in the case, that of the Mobile Brigade and that of the corresponding demarcation, were... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... in this case. Look, in this case there was no lack of foresight, because the chiefs concerned in the case, that of the Mobile Brigade and that of the corresponding demarcation, were meeting since February 9th, several days before the strike was declared, to design the operation, to work on it and to establish the necessary resources to give coverage. And this device operated reasonably well, smoothly, for several days, generating nothing but very punctual and all minor incidents. All on the basis of a permanent, systematic joint follow-up and a daily review of the devices. Nor was there a lack of reaction capacity. Because, look, on February 23, which is the only one that seems to be of interest to you, look, when it is observed at the first hour of the morning that the presence of concentrated persons is multiplied by six the number of people who came to be in it during the previous days, who, logically, are the ones who mainly or initially mark the forecast, immediately, when it is found, not only many more remain, but also that among them were people who were not part of the staff, and who expressed, manifested a quite belligerent attitude against the agents of the Ertzaintza, immediately activated, strengthened the device, the service, bringing resources, many other resources that had their destiny and their occupations, also all important and, moreover, redesigning the operation. A redesign of the operation that is still in place, that is being monitored, day-to-day analysis, until the conflict disappears definitively. Look, Mrs Grisaleña, I wouldn't dare say so categorically, in a way that I think is excessively light, that this or that in relation to a police incident could have been easily avoided. Among other things, because we have a democratic state and the law obliges us to operate proportionally, with criterion and with proportionality. And there are no easy, simple solutions, in pamphlets yes, in chatter talks yes, but in a serious parliamentary forum like this light claims of this kind can not be made, because it involves a declassification to the professional collective of the Ertzaintza teams, which are preparing and working seriously for this to be resolved well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u57	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. 9th point on the subject list: "Queen Martinez said to him, "That the members of the United States of the United States of the United States are to be asked of the President of the United States and Security of the United States as to the activities of the Border through the conflict." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u58	Yeah. Erkoreka jauna; how does the Government value police action in the context of labour disputes?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u59	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u60	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Martínez, more than 1,300 concentrations and demonstrations related to labour disputes have been reported in the past year, January, February and several days in March. Over 1,300. In 99.9 per cent of cases, the intervention of Ertzaintza has been limited, limited to an observational presence, without just effective intervention, with the aim of ensuring public security and ensuring, protecting the free exercise of rights and freedoms, which is to what are constitutionally and legally mandated. I think it is an assessment, from that point of view, that can only be positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u61	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u62	Yes, Mr. Erkorek, we both know how much of the financial crisis we're involved in, how many companies have been closed, how many ERTEs are on the table, and how many of them have arrived and arrived. ITP, Alestes, Tubbax, etc. And the poverty and inequality that this brings. And, moreover, this translates into uncertainty, and uncertainty this economic situation for the citizenry, for the working class. And it becomes, moreover, a lack of security, of human security, of security to face the day by day. Hau from Euskadin dankagun secures a lack of handiwork. The day-to-day uncertainty faced by thousands of people who do not know whether the ETRE they are going to become ERE, of the self-employed who have not yet received their help, or of the traders themselves, for example, in the Ayala region, who are seeing how the workers who shop in their shops are being fired. Thus society, and above all the working-man, cannot endure, can never bear the blows which he sometimes receives or receives from the institutions. He needs protection from institutions. Over the past few years we have seen countless police actions, most of them, as you indicated, quietly. But others aren't so much. And I did want to ask him if the performance of the Ertzaintza in the summer strike in the port of Bilbao seems correct. Or what rating do you do? The activity of the border on the ITP or Tabacex, well, the confessionals, you see. When workers mobilize, they mobilize for their rights and their livelihood, for their jobs. Many times they can sit down, they can make civil disobedience. But it is not normal, as has happened recently, to enter with an army of batons to give to right and wrong, without any kind of prior negotiation, because not only did they blow the nose of a trade unionist. Before and after that, there were countless totally indiscriminate charges. And it's not normal, as has happened recently in Laudio, for a police operation to arrive in front of a picket of strikers and the first thing I say to them: Don't you want to receive today?". That's not normal. I don't know if it's in a police manual, but at least it's not normal. And we do not know these burdens, which I say are these facts that I have reported, we do not know what their intentions are, because they usually occur before the workers go to meet with the company or before the workers go to meet with the government. At first, he talked about uncertainty, insecurity and nervousness. Here are several dozen people. Let's think about anxiety, nervousness, the stress of being on the edge of losing your job in the face of a layoff. Responses cannot be intimidating police operations. It has to be dialogue and negotiation. There are two langilleriak langilleriak Gobernu honoren partitik treatando hau jasotzea. We can't tolerate it, as we've already... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ...negotiation. There are two langilleriak langilleriak Gobernu honoren partitik treatando hau jasotzea. We cannot tolerate, as has already been said, in this society that labour conflicts become problems of public order on the part of the Ertzaintza. Workers are demanding their livelihood, their jobs. Vulnerable people must be protected, more in this situation, and not powerful ones. Mr Erkoreka, this is not an issue where more rubber balls are needed, but more protection and more rights for the working class. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u63	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. SenorIón, I agree with the proximity you have described, that the situation is economical and economical, and that it is in a difficult situation. I myself am very close to those who are in this position. Don't think you're the only spokesman and those who come near him and them. Second, I don't want you to do any random planning here. This government has many answers, many which are found in this state. A lot. There are a lot of departments around here that have special programs to respond to these situations. Always, among other things, activity, economic activity, and keeping jobs as effective as possible. Ertzaintza only intervenes in labour disputes, only when there are conducts that involve an excess in the exercise of rights and that may involve an unlawful, criminal or administrative offence. Please read, inter alia, article 315 of the Criminal Code, which provides for the type of coercion for strike. He only intervenes in such cases. Until then, many other government departments have intervened with their own policies, taking care of situations, negotiating, (interlocuting?) and others. The Ertzaintza has no more intervention than I tell you, when these special situations occur. And then, when it does, moreover, it must respect, as you are sure it is not hidden from it, a very advanced, very demanding code of ethics, approved with the most advanced in Europe; which also revolves around the strict idea of proportionality in the use of resources at your disposal, no. In addition, a code whose contravention is expressly provided for in the law. An internal investigation involves the immediate opening, as we have recently had cases in which this has been verified. Internal investigations, of course, that are compatible with any other judicial investigation that may arise as a result of a complaint, that exist and are raised relatively frequently by the citizen, whether from a workers' collective in protest or not. This is the game frame. A game frame that I believe can be clearly stated that it works reasonably well, reasonably well. A democratic framework. An advanced framework for the intervention of Ertzaintza, with guarantee mechanisms to correct deviations when they occur, which is not that they occur every day. If they occur, there are mechanisms to correct these deviations and situations. The framework, therefore, is ideal. And the government's response is not police. The Government's response to the current social and economic emergencies is multidimensional. There are many programmes supported by many departments, which mobilize many economic resources in response to these situations. And Ertzaintza, as the last ratio, only intervenes when from the concrete conducts of the persons can be derived or derived unlawful contrary to the Penal Code or to the administrative legal regulations, only in these cases. Always proportionally, always. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u65	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interadectation by Jon Hernández Hidedez, together with Podemos, a member of the Antizian Division, made to the Chief of the Public and Autobernus, about the high temporary competition of Eukadin's public employment." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u66	Thank you. Good morning. Mrs. Chief. In Euskadi we have become the champions of a sad discipline, that of temporality in public employment. It is a story that comes from afar, but has devastating consequences on the present of the working life of thousands of women and men working in the Basque public sphere. And that it will have them even more in the future if we do not reverse the situation, the trend and also the political model that has brought us here. Unmatched instability in public employment, which negatively affects the working conditions of workers. And that is a symptom, in our opinion, of a model based on the unwillingness to create public employment. According to the latest data available from the National Institute of Statistics, the temporality in the Basque country reaches almost 40% in the public sector of the total number of employees, far ahead of the majority of the autonomous communities of the State and far above the temporality in private employment. Approximately 17 points above the private sector and 13 points above the average of the autonomous communities of the State as a whole. We think that if in general things have not been done right, and have not been done, in Euskadi for they have been done really wrong in this sense. Or really well, if perhaps that was what was being sought, a weak public sector that does not secure public employment and that allows the provision of a multitude of public services and sub-services by private companies so that they can make cash. According to the Basque Government itself, in Osakidetza, 58 per cent of interinity, more than 24,000 people; in Education, 45 per cent, more than 12,000 people; in the General Administration, 57 per cent, more than 3,000 people; in Justice, 44 per cent, etc. Tens of thousands of temporary workers. Four out of every 10 public workers in Euskadi would now be temporary workers. That is, almost half of those who work in public are temporary in Euskadi. If we add to this the thousands of workers who work indirectly for the Basque Public Administration, through concerts, contracts, in many cases precarious and also with high rates of partiality and temporality, we have therefore a lamentable Basque public model. In our opinion, public services have been weakened over time, especially during the last... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... I'm sorry about the Basque public model. In our view, public services have been weakened over time, especially over the last decade, perhaps consciously because, as I said earlier, a weak public sector and a private sector could take advantage of certain business niches in the field of public services, even in some cases living exclusively with them. The Basque unions have been denouncing this situation for years, and have called for nothing less than a general strike in all public sectors by next April. They have called on him, precisely, to demand that this situation be brought to an end and also to denounce the model. And they demand that the Basque Government put an end to the policy of privatization and outsourcing as well. They denounce the inadequacy of the OPEs that have been convened in recent years, the fraud committed with programme contracts or cumulation contracts. They also demand an increase in the number of jobs and structural staff, to be negotiated, to be negotiated. And in this same line they also place the need to expand templates, improve ratios, reduce workloads and also regulate them in those areas where they are not; because the templates in the public sector, say the trade union centres, are assuming generally unsustainable workloads. In order to address all these issues, Madam Counsellor, if the Government is willing to do so, we believe that it is absolutely necessary to activate collective bargaining. It is necessary for the Government to sit down with the civil service unions and negotiate and agree on a road map that can be used to address the problem of the very high temporality and to turn around a ball that has become very large, and that is becoming more and more difficult to stop. The judgments, which you know of, of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which have been published, clearly state that there has been an abuse of temporality in public services, not only in Euskadi, throughout the State. And that the rights of temporary persons have been undermined. And these people are currently the main victims of all the decisions and policies that have led us to these overflowing rates of temporality. It is not only the responsibility of his Government, it is true, of the Basque Government, but the Basque Government has a high responsibility in this. That is why, now, the governments, this and that of Madrid, which as you know my coalition is part of it, must take steps to ensure that policies to boost public employment do not leave thousands of people on the street in Euskadi. It's a problem, it's a problem. Last week we heard the declaration of unconstitutionality of the transitional provision of the Police Act of the Basque Country. You know him perfectly well. Your text was very similar to the second additional provision of the Bill of Bodies and Scales that is currently being processed, which you came to introduce us two weeks ago. A provision that was intended, or is intended to implement certain consolidation processes in the Basque public administration. Beyond telling us that they do not share the declaration of unconstitutionality, which, of course, we already know, what we think, what we want to know is what are the intentions of the Basque Government for the development of the law of bodies and scales and to address the problem of the temporality and the problem of public employment in Euskadi. Because that law, and so I also told you in the presentation, will not end the overflowing temporality, with or without provisions, but it could help reduce it if you have will. But, besides, and I told you so too, it is the opinion of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, other mechanisms must be activated from the Basque Government to tackle this interinity. This was the case before we knew the declaration of unconstitutionality of that provision, that of the Basque Police Act, and we think that still remains so. It is therefore important for our group to know what the intentions of the Basque Government are in this regard. We want to know what actions you will take to reduce the high rate of temporaryity in public employment in Euskadi and to consolidate public staffing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u67	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. To answer, Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u68	Mrs. President. Mr. Hernandez, chief of departments, good morning. She is aware of the high interinity rates in public administrations, in this administration. It's a reality I haven't closed my eyes to. You know my public pronouncements better than anyone else, even in this very House. While we in the Government do not intend to evade our share of responsibility, what cannot be avoided in any case is that this situation has been largely the result of exogenous factors which have decisively conditioned the realization of public offers of employment. We refer primarily to troop replacement rates, which are reflected in successive laws of the State's General Budgets. This Government has argued that the decision on the areas in which the replacement rate is allowed clearly contrasts with the capacity for self-organization recognized in article 10.2 of the Gernika Statute. That is, that the state norm has constituted an intrusion into the organizational space itself. Kolokan jarri da, beraz, euskal erakundeon antolaketa eremua. Bitartekotasunaren hazkuntza konpon zezaketen nahi beast lan eskaintza eta nahi bezalakoak deitzeko aukera ukatu zaigu. We assume that we have a high intermediate rate in the Esscal administration, and the right way to solve it would be to call them OPEs. But we've faced the wall of these reduced general laws for years of reposition and budget. In consequence of this, the possibility of maintaining public employment has been strongly conditioned. Por ello, el Gobierno Vasco ha mostrado su... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... horrendous, enfolded publikoa egonkortzeko aukera oso baldintzatuta egon da. That is why the Basque Government has shown its discontent year after year. However, the Constitutional Court has ruled that the State, in exercising its competence in the general management of the economy and by virtue of the principle of coordination of the financial autonomy of the autonomous communities with the State Treasury, could limit the offer of public employment by public administrations, since it is directly related to economic policy objectives. This has particularly affected the autonomous administrations, including our own. After several exercises suffering from the limitations of these replacement rates, in 2017 and 2018 a gradual opening was introduced through the additional rates or stabilization rates. This has clearly been insufficient. On the other hand, it cannot be made clear that the normal functioning of the Administration over the past decade has forced specific organisational measures to be taken on time. This has been the result of several reasons, such as the adoption of laws, the assumption of new powers, the opening of new centres and facilities, etc. These measures have required an extra allocation of human resources through temporary recruitment for start-up and operation until they are covered by final provisioning methods. In any case, it should be made clear at this point that when we talk about temporaryity, the data offered by the various public administrations, as well as by the trade union representation, usually include all temporary appointments and temporary employment. For an adequate and less biased interpretation of the data, it is necessary to distinguish between the temporaryity relating to the temporary coverage of a vacant post of staff, which is likely to be offered in a public call for employment and the temporaryity generated by the appointment of an acting staff member in place of another staff member or career staff member with reserve of position. I am not going to expand on this aspect, since it was the subject of a previous inquiry by the EH Bildu group, as well as dealt with in my appearance before this House on 22 February to report on the draft Law on Bodies and Scales. I insist that it is not my heart to avoid any responsibility, but to put on the table the many factors that result in high rates of interinity, so that we can all better understand the problem we face and propose the most appropriate solutions. In any case, as I pointed out in my first appearance in this Parliament to present the department's strategic lines, one of our greatest, most important challenges is to try to reduce as much as possible the high interinity that exists. I said it then and I keep it now. To this end, we will focus on the definitive coverage of job vacancies in job relationships through the implementation of the corresponding public job offers. We plan to convene more than 10,000 seats in the General Administration and in other sectors during the four years of the legislature. Public work offers, as they guarantee the change of generation in the administration, are the most important tools to stabilize the social employment of quality. With this we wish to account for the experience of the workers who have served their service in the Administration for several years in public employments. It seems to us that this experience contributes a great deal to our public services; As I have already moved them, it is our will to recognize as far as possible the experience of people who have been working in the Administration for some time as interim staff through processes that facilitate such recognition. A collective that undoubtedly brings an experience and knowledge of which it would be a luxury, a waste, to dispense. That is why, at the first opportunity that has been presented to us, we have tabled in this House a bill incorporating two additional provisions aimed precisely at a different assessment of the access to the public service of staff with a long career in the administration. While we are aware that the recent ruling of the Constitutional Court has declared null and void the tenth transitional provision of the Basque Police Act, a provision whose tenor is quite similar to that contained in the second additional provision of the draft Law on Bodies and Scales, it is nevertheless true that this Government is firmly committed to moving forward in the search for solutions aimed at resolving the issue of interinity in the field of public administration. We also need to highlight and underline the contents of the first additional provision of our bill. On the basis of this, it is possible or envisaged that a greater weighting of the experience gained in the administration in which the OPE will be developed will be possible in terms of merit assessment, are content with great potential in itself. I will not tire of repeating that the bet of this administration, of this government, to put an end to interinity, is to standardize the call for public offers of employment. These offers are going to allow us to reduce the high interinity rates we have. In this endeavour we do not spare any formula, and in addition to putting this law on the table, I have first posed to Minister Izeta this week the urgency and need to seek joint solutions that will help in this regard. On the one hand, to reduce interinity and, on the other, to recognize the experience of acting staff with a long career in the service of the Administration. The Minister has collected the glove and has publicly expressed both the intention to address this problem and a possible reform of the Basic Staff Regulations. In conclusion, I would like to underline the idea that it is necessary to focus on the parameters of offerable interinity, in order to focus well on the problem we are talking about and with the shared objective of advancing the reduction of interinity rates... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... offerable, in order to focus well on the problem we are talking about and with the shared objective of advancing in the decrease of the rates of interinity and launching consolidation processes with due legal certainty. In short, we know that we have high intermediate rates and we're working to give them a solution. First step, we've submitted the bill of law, and, secondly, we've negotiated with the state government necessary to change EBEP. We'll also open negotiations with the unions to discuss a number of more cautionary plans and situations connected with this subject. Not to mention that the main tool to lower interinity is to place public offers in motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u70	Thank you, chief physician. There are exogenous factors, indeed, and there are factors that are not exogenous, you have mostly referred to replacement rates. The problem of temporality in Euskadi precedes the replacement rates above all the limitations introduced by Montoro and his boys. It is true that this has indeed made the situation worse. You already know – not just because you are moving us that you have met with the Government of Spain – but you already know that the Government of Spain has already been demonstrating for months that it is proposing, that it is planning, that it is studying, among other things, the amendment of the Basic Staff Regulations and another series of measures to be evaluated, precisely to put a stop to the highest temporality and interinity in the whole State. But the Basque Government must also change, in our view, its policy on public employment. Because, as I say to you, temporality rates are not only inevitable as a result of legislation, they are certainly not the result of chance or the declaration of unconstitutionality of the provision of the Police Act. And we think that the Basque Government is ultimately the most responsible for the high rates of temporality in our autonomous community, because if we compare ourselves with other autonomous communities, we have higher rates of temporality with the same limitations that were imposed on us at the time since the People's Party government – by the way, some of them had the Basque Nationalist Party's parabide in some budget exercises. But, of course, it is not our intention, it was not our intention today with this inquiry to raise a debate on the responsibility of the Basque Government – you know our opinion, I have reiterated it here – but our intention was of course to ask you to see what steps you will take ahead and, in particular – we are interested in – in the coming months, to begin to reverse this situation. Because we think that even if we have to change exogenous factors, as you say, we think that the Basque Government, of course, should not – it would be a bad matter if you sat on the couch waiting for the Spanish Government to simply make the changes that it has to make, to reverse some of the measures that the People's Party has brought us, etc. – we think you have to take initiative. You have asked us some of the things that are your intentions and we tell you one thing, all these issues have to be negotiated with the unions. We believe that this is the first step you must take. And the unions have started to parade around here to evaluate the Body and Scale Act, which you came to introduce, and one of the things that we continue to reiterate is that this negotiation with the government is missing. I put it to you when you were here, we did not enter into a debate, we did not want either of us to enter into a debate about who bears the greatest burden of reason in the lack of negotiation or not in the lack of negotiation, but what is true is that they continue to claim that they feel they value all these issues. Now they have called a general strike, we can discuss what motivates the unions to call general strikes, and I know unionism, no general strike is called in such a powerful sector for baladish things. Therefore, I believe that you should attend to it and you should sit down now, not even waiting for the procedure of the Law on Bodies and Scales, not waiting, of course, for the changes that have to be made in the State, not waiting for anything, calling the unions, already sitting at the Public Service table and addressing all these issues. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u71	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u72	Mr Hernández, I would remind you once again that one of the issues that has conditioned and led to this high-interinity situation that we are experiencing has been the replacement rate. That's right. On the other hand, since 2007 the state legislation on consolidation processes has remained unchanged and has remained as a single possibility, as reflected in the transitional provision provided for in the Basic Staff Regulations. Well, 14 years after the adoption of this measure, it is urgent to update the regulation and adapt it to the needs of public administrations after a long period of restrictions in order to achieve the consolidation of quality public employment. A need for modification... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... public administrations after a long period of restrictions to achieve the consolidation of quality public employment. A need for change that we have been demanding from the Spanish Government for a long time. For our part, of course, we have all the negotiating machinery under way and, as I have already pointed out to you earlier, this very week I have tied the commitment by the Minister of Territorial Policy and Public Service, to find legal formulas that will solve the high rates of interinity, also in the Basque administration. According to official sources of the Ministry itself, they are not my words, this commitment was translated as follows: "both the minister and the councilwoman have expressed their willingness to cooperate in solving the problem of the high temporality experienced by the administrations, either by reforming the Basic Statute of the Public Employee or by seeking other solutions to the current situation". Gai hori, esan bezala, nik neuk jarri no ministeren mahai heurean, éta berak berak agendan sartu du leienttasunez. In any case, and returning to the specific needs of our Administration, it will also be necessary to reorganize staffing, to redeploy staff and to plan for the management of vacancies. In this sense, the content of the draft Law on Bodies and Scales plays a key role, which goes beyond its additional provisions, throughout its 19 articles regulates, orders, structures and organizes the General Administration as far as its personnel are concerned. Such an arrangement is indispensable in order to take on future public offers of employment, which are ultimately the commitment of this Administration to reduce interinity. These OPEs will, in turn, allow the rejuvenation of staff, as well as the adaptation of jobs to the new profiles that citizens demand, for a quality public service. Therefore, Mr Hernández, the answer to your question is easy to summarize: the Basque Government will continue to work so that it can develop public employment offers as soon as possible, in a standardised way, which will allow for a reduction in interinity while at the same time modernising the administration. All this, of course, without neglecting the work needed to enable processes that facilitate the access of people who have spent years devoting their day to public service and, therefore, bring their knowledge and good doing. In any case, it is essential to provide all processes with the necessary legal certainty. This need and urgency appeal to both the Basque and the state legislature, who must be open to a real, reasonable, proportional and exceptional regulatory solution, in order to put an end to the reality that a very high percentage of public employment has become temporary employment. In all this I wish to remark the importance of negotiation; I cannot omit it. In this work of ours, we are considering the unions too, because we are making a deep reflection about their opinions and proposals. We believe in the active audience, and we practice it. There is no doubt that this government will not yield, it will continue its search for solutions. Our commitment is complete and our will is firm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. Number of points in theme list: "Ask the question of Carmelus Barri Barroja, the popular team of the Ciudadns, the commander of the board of Public and Autobernus as to the activities of the Public Committee of the Etica." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u74	Yeah. Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Counselor, something's wrong. The government has a code of ethics and conduct that it must comply with, and well, it seems that the activity – you will comment on me – of the Public Ethics Commission that you chair has been to zero. The Public Ethics Commission, attached to the Department of Public Governance and Self-Government, has not issued a pronouncement in the performance of its functions since August 2019, with outstanding issues to consider. Nor do we see published memoirs of activities 2018, 2019, 2020; that is, there will be some reason for that inactivity. We see what is regulated by article 16 of the Code of Ethics and Conduct, which regulates the Committee on Public Ethics, and we see that there are a number of functions: a series of functions that relate to observations, consultations, suggestions, effective implementation of the Code of Ethics, resolution of consultations, receiving complaints and complaints, making recommendations, making an annual monitoring report, promoting for instance dissemination, information, setting up working groups, and more things that have to do with the functioning, how often it has to meet annually, monitoring report, keeping the deliberations secret, which is not transparent in relation to the functioning of the Committee on Public Ethics. That is to say, in that sense, we do want to know, to advise, what are the reasons for this inactivity of the Committee on Public Ethics for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u75	Thank you. To answer, Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u76	Yeah. Mr Barrio, it is not true that the Committee on Public Ethics is inactive; nothing further from reality. I can assure you that you are carrying out your functions with complete normality, and we are giving you all the attention and rigour that a nuclear issue deserves for this government. Don't have any doubts.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u78	Yeah. Thank you, President. Let us see, because you will have to explain to me in these three and a half minutes that you have left in what the Committee on Public Ethics is doing. Because who controls the Public Ethics Commission? What are you doing? Let's go to the page, let's go to where they also have as a rule to put their performances, and there's nothing, isn't there? I mean, this is where transparency fails. The government, I think, in this regard, with this... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ...has, moreover, as a rule, put on their performances, and there is nothing, isn't there? I mean, here's missing, transparency fails. The Government, I believe, in this regard, with this lack of transparency in relation to the work of the Committee on Public Ethics, which you tell me is working, fails itself, fails the code of ethics itself, doesn't it? In other words, 2020 has been a year of pandemic, but we have been able to see unethical activities. And it's clear that so are you. The administration was still working, wasn't it? That is, there are elements to analyze. There are issues to be analysed – and we all know it – that have to do with outstanding issues, irregular vaccinations, foundations in which the Basque Government is integrated, which have hired (...) value and lost millions of euros. Analyze the circumstances, the proceedings. Exdirectives which are contracted by companies receiving public aid, irregular recruitment of services already identified over time. I mean, those are the issues that we need to know you're looking at the Public Ethics Committee, right? How many files are still open, how many complaints are on the committee table you chair. These are the elements that we have to ask and we have to analyse. I think you have a good time because to clear up those doubts, because we are going to where the source of government information in relation to that activity and there is nothing, counselor. I think it is good that the Basque Government complies with the code of ethics that it proposed at the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u79	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u80	Yeah. Since I've been named President of the Public Ethics, we've had a few formal meetings, all through video conference, on account of the unfortunate situation we've been living through the pandemia. But not only this, but they have been engaged in taking a machine during the last months, and have shared and written many messages together, to close the agreements around matters that have not been decided. This work will take place shortly in the publication of several opinions on some of the causes which the committee has analysed. In that spirit and dedication, we will continue to act on all issues before the committee. Mr Barrio, the Public Ethics Committee of the Euskadi Autonomous Community Administration has a highly regulated and rated modus operandi. It should be borne in mind before questioning the ability of those who integrate it. And it is that once a matter is received and qualified as appropriate begins a processing which, where appropriate, includes the transfer of the matter to the persons affected by the consultation or complaint. Depending on the subject, a complaint procedure is then initiated with a view to ensuring that the opinion and data provided by the person concerned are also taken into consideration by the committee. In addition, if deemed necessary, further information may be sought as a basis for the issuance of the agreement more in line with the provisions of the Public Ethics Commission's rules. The members of the committee then exchanged views and opinions until the final agreement was concluded. An opinion that is published on the official website of this body, as it rightly says. With regard to the annual report of the Committee on Public Ethics, I believe that the outbreak of the pandemic also distorted the normal working of this body and prevented its normal functioning. This is why we understand that the memory of 2019 could not be developed in time and form. In any event, the agreements adopted by this body during this period are duly notified and published, so that anyone who wishes to access their content can access their content through the website of the Public Ethics Commission. There is no agreement in 2020, because the Commission understood that for several of the consultations and complaints presented there was no ethical reproach, and some others, by the end of the year, are still under consideration. However, as it cannot be otherwise, my commitment is to publish the relevant memoirs and opinions. It is the best service we can do to the citizenry, which has a government and public servants that you can trust. We are working to ensure that these reports are able to see the light once the Commission is fully formed after its renewal by the change of government. I wish to make the end of this discovery to confirm the values and principles which are founded on the code of ethics and conduct. That's my commitment to our activity. It's a responsibility. ), transparency and no subjective interest. That's the basis of our ethical manual, exemplary. In fact, this is the way the Basque people expect us to do, and the Board of Public Ethics...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u82	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u83	The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, a Populous Group of the Ciudadnians, a member of the public and chief of the Autobernus, a bill of law to be published." Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u84	Thank you, President. The question is simple, counselor. Mrs. Garamendi, in the light of the Constitutional Court's ruling, do you intend to withdraw the bill on bodies and scales? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u85	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u86	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Gordillo, it seems to me that focusing the importance of the bill on a single additional provision, when its virtuality is that it is essential for the organization and structuring of the Basque administration in the coming years, it is too simplistic. The bill of law in Kidego and beggars is important because it structures the office of the General Administration and autonomous institutions, so that the OPE will help it design and solve it. That's clear in the text explanation. I made it so clear that I myself explained it in the event of the 22nd of February. Therefore, the answer is no, the Government will not withdraw the bill from bodies and scales.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u88	Mrs. Garamendi, all that has surrounded what is the process of... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u89	Mrs Garamendi, all that has surrounded what is the process of presentation and processing, for the moment, of the Law of Bodies and Scales, the truth is that it is an absolute bulwark. Look, when there is such a serious problem, which is recognised by the European institutions, by the national institutions, we have to analyse the situation, and we have to do it seriously. First, analysis of the situation. Interinity is a very serious problem, it's a problem that comes from behind. It is a problem in which we really have to analyse what the causes are. Even three times I asked you to tell us what the causes are. The most he has come to say is that they are exogenous causes and that the fault is the subject, the replacement rate. Listen, at a certain time the replacement rate, it is true that it limited the possibility of convoking more places. But, by the way, it was an opportunity they could have mentioned, they could have reconsidered what the model of the Basque Administration is. The problem is that we don't know what the model of the Basque Administration is. Even three times I asked him for explanations. Even three times he has referred us to alleged legal reports, which we are still waiting for him to send us. We heard from the press that we will now be sending a report of the supposed law this Basque anti-pandemic. How long are we gonna be like this? How long? Look, the main problem is that they don't have a clear model of what should be Basque Public Administration. Secondly, an analysis of the legal context must be made. And this is especially troubling. They're on a very bad streak. In the private sector, they would have been fired long ago and would not be rehired. Look, the Constitutional Court's ruling is that it's demolition, it's absolutely demolition. I've been worried about reading my reports. It is that the reports overlooked it, the issue of compatibility with the Staff Regulations always overlooked it. And they took it for granted anyway. Look, it's not, it's not. Serious legal reports must be made. And finally, Counsellor, Mrs Garamendi, a viable proposal must be made, a viable legal proposal must be made. After the previous question, in which, in part, he referred to this issue, well, then, agree with his partner Sánchez and bring us to this Parliament a viable legal proposal, a genuine proposal that we can discuss, that is realistic and that respects the law. And please bring us a comprehensive legal report, not the page and a half that we usually deliver with all the projects. And, by the way, in this matter, you who call me simplistic, the legal reports signed by Mr Barasorda are much better than those signed by Mr Torre, who at least identifies the legal problem and analyses the issue. Then they're wrong too. But at least they don't waste the reader's time and spend less paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u90	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u91	Mr. Gordillo, I'm not going to get into the rag of any of your insinuations, I understand that malicious. I'm not going into the rag. In addition, as head of the public service area of this Government, I want to break a spear in favour of each of the professional persons working in the Basque administration, regardless of their legal, administrative, and pardon status. They and they are the heart of the public service that we give to citizens. But I return to the subject that motivates your question, Mr Gordillo. It is true that the Constitutional Court has declared unconstitutional the second paragraph of the tenth transitional provision of Law 7/2019, of the fifth amendment of the Police Act of the Basque Country, similar to the second additional provision of the draft law on bodies and scales. I respect the judgment, but I do not share it, because I understand that there are sufficient grounds for this kind of process to be possible. This Government has been proactive, proactive and has put on the table a solution that has again clashed with an interpretation that limits the margin of action, decision and organization that this Government must have. The bill that we refer to Parliament goes far beyond the particularity that you are trying to underline or interested in underlining. The Law on Bodies and Scales facilitates the processes of access to public employment, adapting the structure of the administrative organization to the new framework resulting from the incorporation into the European Higher Education Area. And it will seek better management of public administration human resources. As I said in my presentation to the parliamentary committee, this law will be a giant step in organizing and rationalizing public employment, and in achieving a professional, rational and effective public administration that responds even better to the needs of citizens. Therefore, I repeat, this regulation is urgent and necessary. As far as interinity is concerned, it is beyond any doubt that a solution needs to be sought. And that's why we're in politics, talking and finding solutions. As you are well aware, this very Wednesday I took this issue to the meeting I had with the new Minister for Territorial Policy and Public Service, Mr Iceta. And I can assure you that we have a clear commitment to finding viable solutions to interim rates. He even showed his willingness to undertake reforms in the EBEP. This way of conversation and agreement is open in the legislature, as regards the project of the law, more member and beggarly. He's in the hands of this Chamber. As far as the representation of the legislative power is concerned, the imaginary and realist solution of the question of the provisional is offered and agreed upon. You'll be able to get us on the road for that end. But this is indisputable. This government has done its test and is putting solutions on the table. We'll continue our efforts. To finish, I want to insist. The content of the law is much wider. And you need to arrange and update the administration. This will give the way, after all, to enable the public offer of work, to end the fundamental step with the provisionalness.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. "The thirteenth point on the subject list, the interpenetration, the Muriel Larre Laso, the member of the Basque Popular-Ciudadan group of parliaments made to the head of Economics, patience, and Environmental Division in front of the major irregularities detected in Zalla Las Buddy in the wastehouse, the development, the retrospectality, and environmental activity of economic development, and the contradiction of the recent decayal policy." Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u93	Thank you, good morning. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Madam Counselor. Just over a year ago the Basques lived in Zaldibar, which was perhaps the worst environmental catastrophe in our history, at least the worst we can remember. And one of the most serious that has affected us with consequences of all kinds still ongoing. A year... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... the worst that we can remember many and one of the most serious that has affected us with consequences of all kinds still ongoing. A year later, many questions remain open about Zaldibar, which we are not closing today, but there was a common aspiration after that tragic event: to avoid its repetition. There are more landfills of the same type, with similar monitoring and inspection protocols, and we all wish that whatever failed in Zaldibar could not be repeated elsewhere. Today we come to show our concern about what is happening in Zalla, at the landfill in Las Lagunas, and that this way of acting in Zalla may represent with regard to the waste management policy of the Basque Government, because your Government, the Government to which you are a member, Madam Counsellor, has announced the 20-30 Waste Management Prevention Plan, seems to us to be positive. This has already been made particularly by this objective of reducing by 85 % the waste that reaches the landfill or by these lines of action, in particular the possibility of activating a canon of dumping or incineration of waste which would have the aim of preventing it from being cheaper to dump a waste than to recycle it. It is not something new, state legislation has provided for it for several years, the novelty is that we finally come up with its application here when they already do, for example, all our... the neighbouring autonomous communities. These are the plans, the announcements of your Government, another thing is the day-to-day, the reality that contrasts with your announcements, and I do believe that we should clarify some things today. I mentioned the landfill in Las Lagunas. In this landfill, managed by Cespa, an inspection was carried out in the first days of June 2020, that is, a few months after the Zaldibar catastrophe, and when all sensitivity should be directed to the prevention of any similar risk in our territory. Land in which around a dozen such landfills existed, several fires had occurred in Zalla throughout 2019, and the managing company itself had commissioned a report from SGS to learn about the impact of such events on the landfill. At the time of the study, SGS did not dispose of combustion in the landfill waste mass and proposed a number of additional work. Additional work or reports that should determine, inter alia, the stability of the landfill, the stability of that mass of waste. It should seem important for a specialized company to make this recommendation, but we are not aware that Cespa or the department itself is currently meeting these recommendations. In any case, as I say, the inspection of the Las Lagunas landfill was carried out in June 2020. The result was, in our opinion, very worrying, there were multiple breaches, deviations is the exact term, regarding the conditions under which the landfill should develop its activity, which are none other than those contained in the integrated environmental authorization under which it operates and which serves as a reference, in turn, for the public control of such activity. The deviations detected were not minor issues, affecting from the very operation of the trucks to the control of the sludges and their load of moisture before dumping. There were non-compliances with the sealing of areas out of operation or with the area exposed to rain. Leachate control or methane gas measurements appeared to be unimplemented and control equipment was out of operation. Whether there were goats grazing or whatever was on the waste with its possible implications in the food chain, does not seem to be the most serious, but also indicates a poor fence. In conclusion, the Basque Government, in view of the report, the degree of compliance with the Integrated Environmental Authorisation at the time of the inspection is low, I repeat, low. Anyone would have thought that action should be taken quickly, and the Basque Government should have thought the same, because it gave Cespa, through the corresponding requirement, a period of 30 days to correct that long rosary of deviations detected from its obligations in the management of the landfill, and the same 30 days to document the execution of the corrections. So far the logical and the correct. Since then, many contradictions. It seemed urgent to correct the shortcomings and no one would have missed the imposition of any sanctions. But we arrived in January 2021, I stress, since June, six months have passed, and by January 2021 the Basque Government has not imposed any sanctions on Cespa, but confirms that not all the deviations detected have yet been remedied. We are facing a landfill several times as much as Zaldibar's, we are talking about breaches and serious deviations, low compliance, integrated environmental authorization for months and more months. A non-compliance that persisted when the woman counseled made the announcement of the new Waste Prevention and Management Plan, and what is more serious, a situation that did not involve the closure or reduction of the landfill activity until it solved the deficiencies; if it occurred, it was imperceptible. In fact, the data indicate the opposite, a strong increase in the flow of waste to Las Lagunas between 2020 and 2021, that is, it can be verified in economic terms. That is why, Commissioner, we have to ask you today in this plenary because regardless of what your new plan implies, which we will discuss, the Basque Government has an obligation to correct and sanction situations such as that detected in Zalla and to do so with a speed that has not existed in this case. The risks of any kind that a low degree of compliance with the Integrated Environmental Authorisation does not represent can remain in time and over the territory for months and months. Those who engage in such practices, companies or individuals must face up to their responsibilities and it does not seem logical to expect something serious to happen to demand them. We are talking about a matter in which prevention is very important. That's why we're asking you what you're going to do to correct and sanction... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... of a matter in which prevention is precisely essential. That is why we ask you what you will do to correct and sanction these kinds of situations and behaviors in the Euskadi landfills? What are you going to do to act effectively and in peremptory times without the risks being eroded? We want to know when the gaps – for the sake of tranquility of Zalla's neighbours – will be counted with a fully operational integrated environmental authorization, that is, when will their operation be very high in accordance with the integrated environmental authorization, so that it protects the population from any environmental risks arising from the management of the landfill? What violations persist today, eight months after the inspection? What rating deserves that other Basque landfills have a low degree of compliance with the integrated environmental authorization? What sanctions have they imposed or are they planning to impose? Or will they continue to act as before, detecting accumulated deficiencies for how many months, or years, it takes many months to be corrected without further consequences for those involved in them? We have the impression that the department's action is too lax and that it is necessary to increase inspections in order to detect breaches before, not only when they are piled up, to shorten the deadlines for rectifying undesirable situations, which cannot be delayed in the way we have described, as they were also delayed in Zaldibar, and to take extraordinary measures of limitation and closure of activities, or of sanction or complaint in the face of the most serious episodes. And all this without waiting for the approval of the new plan, counselor, because those who have lived near these large landfills for years, live with fears they did not have before. It depends on the performance of your department that these fears can be rationally conjured, and for this we need inspection reports that reflect a different reality and also different ways of acting the Administration. We need a reality of high compliance with the integrated environmental authorization in. In the gaps, in June 2020, the reports said something else and in January 2021 it has not been corrected. In Zaldibar just over a year ago, there was no such high compliance and elsewhere, perhaps, we can still avoid serious consequences by changing the way we act. That is why we wanted to raise this debate. We believe it is useful, because that change in the way we act can only benefit everyone. It will be good to do so as soon as possible and it is essential for the credibility of any new waste plan that the Government wants to push forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u95	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments and members of the law. Indeed, Larrea points out, as you said, the department has recently made progress on the key elements of the draft waste prevention and management plan for the Basque Country until 2030, which will mark the strategy to be followed by Euskadi over the next decade. It does not mean that there is no strategy now, but we do want to come up with a new one for the next decade and, of course, it is not an announcement, but it is a reality that is already working with the competent administrations, both in industrial waste – which affects the government – and urban waste, in the outlying parliaments and with the main actors and actors that are going to be involved, so we hope it will be a reality in the last quarter of this year. The objectives – and I want to start here – of the Basque Government for 2030, as you said, are to reduce by 30% the reduction, forgiveness, the generation of total waste; to increase the selective collection of urban waste by 85%; to reuse 85% of non-hazardous waste by turning it into secondary materials; and to reduce at least 15% disposal in landfills. It is estimated that the implementation of the measures set out in this plan to achieve the objectives set out should take place in the next 10 years and are actions that will be aimed mainly at promoting the circularity of materials. I mean, if we sort them, recycle them, but, above all, reuse them, it's not enough that we recycle them if we don't re-use them again. And, as you well know, we have here in the House the Environmental Administration Act, which also provides for action in this regard. All these actions are going to drastically reduce the landfill deposits, according to what you mentioned, can not be cheaper, can not be cheaper to a company to dump in a landfill than recycle the materials. And, in addition, we are going to help mitigate, of course, all the problems that arise in relation to climate change and we are looking for transparency, traceability and, above all, improvement in the management of those landfills, but also of all the facilities that will manage and recycle them. Therefore, the most important actions will be: to activate investments that minimize this spill and encourage recycling, circularity; to ensure the self-sufficiency of the spill in Euskadi, that we do not have to carry anything out of the autonomous community, as well as we are reducing those spills; to carry out the legislative developments that will accompany all these actions; to activate the spill-incineration canon, which you yourself commented on; to increase the resources for inspection and punishment, inspection at a level slightly beyond what the integrated environmental authorization itself says, but good, with other good practices that will help us to improve the management of the landfills; to create this public-private facility with a management, of course, public that will allow us to ensure the proper management of these wastes. And so what we are trying to do is to make the work that we are going to do from the public administrations also use these secondary materials and, among all of us, we will be able to end the current situation. If we focus on the landfill of Zalla, which is what you, I think, wanted to talk about, the lagoons of Zalla. Well, I'm going to comment on the actions that have been taken in this regard, in order to ensure compliance with everything required in your integrated environmental authorization. I want to tell you that some of the aspects that you have commented here, I'm going to try... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... in its Integrated Environmental Authorisation. I want to tell you that some of the aspects that you have commented here, I will try to be as objective as possible and not presume bad intentions, but perhaps lack of information. It is an obligation of this Government, of any of the Governments and of the Basque Government in particular, to correct the irregularities that are detected within the framework of our competences, and, of course, to work to promote the inspection and, of course, to ensure that this inspection of the Vice-Council of the Environment works rigorously, impartially, defending the public interests and in compliance with the approved inspection plans. That is the work of the Vice-Counsellor and the inspection services, which we have also provided for in that Environmental Administration Act, which is in the House, to be provided with more resources; because we need to be more agile and we need to inspect more. We comply with the law, but we need more inspection. With regard to the situation of this particular dossier, it should be noted that an inspection visit is actually conducted on 3 and 4 June 2020 and 11 minor deviations and 6 moderate deviations are detected, most of which are of an administrative nature. And that's how they qualify in the record. No serious non-compliance is found. You mentioned that there are serious breaches. None. The inspection report contains, I insist, 11 minor deviations and 6 moderate deviations. The degree of compliance of the landfill with the authorization obtained by the company was low, it is true, according to the model of IRAM that we are using for the global ratings. On 31 July 2020, a request is sent from the Vice-Council of the Environment, demanding that all deviations detected be remedied. And on 15 September it is confirmed that nine minor and two moderate deviations have been corrected. On 26 October, a further request is sent to the company after verifying that six of the identified deviations have not yet been remedied. And on 9 December, it is confirmed that the four moderate deviations and the two minor deviations that remained to be corrected have been corrected. Therefore, all the deviations identified are corrected as of 9 December 2020. With regard to the purpose of sanctions by the Basque Government, please indicate that non-compliance with certain conditions of the Integrated Environmental Authorisation may be classified as a serious environmental breach, without seriously endangering the safety of the landfill or the health of persons. And this is very important. Despite the fact that it can be qualified and that the remedy, or that the qualification in such an inspection in accordance with European legislation, can be qualified as a low degree of compliance, and that the establishment of some kind of sanction will then be carried out, it does not mean that there is a risk either to the landfill itself in its stability or to the health of the people. Therefore, well, reassure people living in Zalla in this regard, because their health is not being endangered. Infringements that have been detected at this time can be dealt with and can be punished for two years. And I confirm that the file has already been transferred to the relevant instructor, who must assess whether or not the initiation of this sanctioning procedure is relevant. Once, I insist, they have already been modified and updated, and the Integrated Environmental Authorisation is fully implemented according to the inspection carried out; since 9 December 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Ma'am, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u97	Thank you very much. Look, we wanted to put forward a debate looking to the future and trying to prevent the repetition of the Zaldibar catastrophe or the months of uncertainty experienced by Zalla's neighbours. And we don't say it's the same, I repeat, it's not the same, okay? I want it to be clear. But we say that the model of acting is slow in the face of non-compliance, which can lead to any undesirable and avoidable event. We want to make a real contribution, Madam Counsellor. What destroys, what does not help to improve things, is to follow the same path that you were walking as an Administration in recent years. And, look, the path Zaldibar crossed for a year, which has been turning around and turning around in the lagoons since June 2020, and we don't know where it's going or maybe where it's going, okay? It is not we who claim that the inspection detected a degree of compliance with the Integrated Environmental Authorization low, that is the only thing that can be concluded with the data incorporated in the report and after the examination of almost twelve and a half, as you mentioned, of the minor or moderate deviations, but there were more than twelve and a half deviations in the gaps. Of course, that's what you said as the Basque Government for the letter to Zalla City Hall in January, a few weeks ago. It was you, not my parliamentary group. And since it was you, not my group, not the parliamentary opposition, who gave Cespa 30 days to correct everything diverted. Even if it is not then sanctioned, even if it has been diverted right now for possible study to the proper operator. In January the deviations remained, there had been no sanction, I repeat, but you, not us, acknowledged in writing to the City Council that the time given had passed greatly. Of course, card goes, card comes, because the landfill was still working. The City Council granting licenses for the opening of new cells and the pace of discharges accelerating. And this can be checked. And just one thing, municipal revenues budgeted for landfill activity have grown by more than €340,000 between 2020 and 2021. That is, over the months in which the Basque Government itself confirms by its letter that the non-compliances have not been corrected. Anyway... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... 2020 and 2021, i.e. over the months in which the Basque Government itself confirms by its letter that the non-compliances have not been corrected. In any case, our desire will continue to be truly constructive. It has been so far, and it will also be so in the motion that we will be putting forward in an effort to move the Government's action in a better direction to date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u99	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Muriel, perhaps we are referring to different things and I would like to clarify that. Because, I have commented to you, those situations were actually detected in June, which were classified as in no case serious, although compliance was low, it is true, but in no case serious, and I want to clarify that. It's all been healed. But there is a previous dossier, which I believe is to which you are referring, which begins on 24 July 2019, concerning fire conates that are going to occur throughout that year, that are going to heal, that are going to be introduced. And I can detail them. July 24th there is a fire cone. It communicates. It is inspected on 30 July. Satisfactory reply was received on 16 September. Prior to that, another fire had occurred on 5 September. The next day the landfill is visited. They're doing a series of... well, analysis of what was going on. There's a record coming up. A number of spill prohibitions are carried out with respect to the area of the fire. Well, there's another fire cone again on October 31st. And so, at that time, what is required is a geophysical, thermographic, environmental monitoring prospecting, aimed at determining the existence of possible zones of internal combustion, as well as at certifying the guarantees of waterproofing. The company is required to do all that. And with date twenty... –Excuse me – October 14, 2020 is approved by the Department, by the Vice-Advisory, the Action Plan that the company has presented. The Action Plan is presented in October. The Plan of Action was adopted. And it begins the execution of new gas evacuation chimneys, as well as the excavation of the affected area and the repair of the geomembrane. That's what today is not over. For what he has been given time to do, to perform the work that has been presented and approved. Therefore, the specific landfill of which you refer to me is subject to very thorough inspection and monitoring. And I do not want to end without commenting on an aspect to which you also referred, and that is that the landfill continues to be filled and the landfill continues to have an activity license. Obviously, the landfill is a complete project, to which the Integrated Environmental Authorization was given, which needs to be followed up and that we need to follow up comprehensively. It has a capacity. And, therefore, it is normal that the landfill should continue to be filled, that it should continue to have authorizations, since the project has been approved and has its authorization. Our goal, to do more inspections, to do more follow-up, to generate that confidence in the traceability of follow-up actions. And all this, I insist, has been reflected in two aspects: one in the Environmental Administration Act, where a special effort is made to have more resources in this inspection work, and two, in the new Waste Management Plan, which we aim to improve our actions and ensure the safety of all people who can live near landfill facilities yes, but also of those other facilities that we will have to put in place to generate recycling and reuse of materials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. fourteen points in theme list: "Interpolation, made by the legislature of the Ostero Galiridas, to the head of the economics, the patience, and the environmental department, about the position of the new eoliators of the Plant." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u101	Yeah. Thank you, ma'am. Mrs. Tapia. Good afternoon. It seems to me to be repeated, and about their extension, that necessity or need is coming to us, is it not? You told me, speaking about the gas, not long ago, that you wanted to see me beside you when this new extension of retaves came. I, and we, would like it; no doubt. But it must be confessed that sometimes you don't make it easy, do you? We're starting to think, (... SOCRATES: And as he says, the old ass is hard to learn the new way, is it not? You want us next to you in the retatory extension, and we want you to be with us, as far as you're the chief physician, to make an ardent defense of the environment. And we have to tie them together, don't we? I'd like to put a context before I start something else. And, context, you know, I think we'll all agree here in general that the context is a climate emergency, and that the context is the necessity for carbonobing and carbonobing, isn't it? In the last 30 years, we know the euscal autonomy, the very lowness, and any credible carbono-printer would need to come down around 7,5% year by year. And that's a huge challenge, isn't it? I'd say there's no light plan, too, wouldn't there? , today. Because today 2030 energy Plans and 50 climate strategys have already become old-fashioned, because they don't look for these targets, do they? But what's clear is, we know, and we'll agree here too, with three poles, right? , in this case of carbon deprivation, to prevent climate emergency: on the one hand, it would be the downfall of consumption, on the other hand, the remarkable decline of the burning of fossil resources, and, on the other hand, the rise of the most recurrent, and a remarkable ascent. But of course this has a lot of complications, isn't it? I've done a lot of numbers around our energy system lately. And what's clear is the retching of the combs... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Isn't it? I've done a lot of numbers around our energy system lately. And what's clear is that when we say that it's not only a rise, but that we're going to have to do it high up in all the system or power repertivating energy, and, especially now, we know that at a high scale nearly the same energy that has potential, is that they're photobolts and eolictics, isn't it? So we need to push them. As far as that goes, we can agree. Klaro, along with us, we have some problems, right? And I just wanted to share this with you today. It seems to us that this reincarnation will have to be a public guide, doesn't it? , there must be all sorts of projects: the public, the private, and the people who reap them all. And there are some, and they're all on the move, but it has to be a public guidance, order, order, administration, and especially funk, and in this case, you're in charge of energy, aren't you? This will be a complex process and have to be as ordered as possible by the process. And this is going to be difficult, because either plans or forecasts for the recurrent energy we've made up of so far have failed to work. We're in 2021, and if you remember, 2020 strategies targeted 630 megawatttium eoli, and we're 150. So we're far from the foreseements that were made at the beginning. Now 2030. In the year, it's about 750, but that's hard to reach, and, inculuso, I'd say, that's a little less or less for the needs we need. The question is, that in this country, or in this part of this people, an attempt was made to arrange all of this: PTS oil was accepted 2002. In the year, the Elgea park or the oil plant was already in progress. And because of PTS, there were several places, places, or places on the table, right? And on account of that, there was afterwards amplification of the Urals, the gardens of the Oizz, the Bayian, and so on. But it's true that there was a very conflicting process, because klaro, we all love retivables, but if it's possible, let the advocacy be far away, isn't it? And we all want reassemblers on a small scale, on a small standard, but we all want our industry to be working at the same time, and we want all of us to be satisfied, don't we? And clarro, conflicted matter, because we finally know that the reattal energy extensions in the environment are damaged, right? and that the oolicas are especially hurtful, and that the eolicas are still larger when they are made in the mountains. After so many lasts, I think I know about hubs that you will share in, in the year 2008-2009, the PTS oil was already dead; at least, politically, he was dead, even though he was still strong. And there, if you want, we'll talk about it later, but here there were different solutions, there was also a suddenness that this PTS should turn around, right? The question was not only to stop the eoliean, but on the one hand there was a social conflict. On the other hand, there were political and administrative decisions, viz. Incluso was thrown back in the Time Park, picked up the negative impact of the environment, 2004. In the year, and that was supposed to be a big brake, wasn't it? That wasn't all, even the economics came later, after all this conflict, when the eolic priors and the remaining eolicans had stopped. And then 2010. Almost 2020 years from year to year, we've been in a sort of morbidity, even though we've been ordered to renew this PTS, haven't we? Klaro, you've been in charge of energy policies since 2012, and clarro, for eight years, you haven't started a PTS Cool. And in the meantime we have accepted the law of the Middle Ages, and in it we proposed that we should make the Elyctic PTS of the Elysians, but that the recurrents ought to be rounded up or planned. For we have problems with photobolts, and today we are seeing in the south of the Arabs, for instance, large enough speculators, and it seems to us that we need to arrange all this, because there are problems there too. The point is that we are in this process, and that you have not already fulfilled the promise of the law, i.e. the law said that the retractable energy should be placed here on the table for two years, but as long as it is not done, so long as it is unordered, you've created clarro, Alexin, together with the Iberdronal Energy organization. We're glad to start the retracting projects. We're not so glad to have only 40% and leave 60% of the Iberdron, because, in a way, it has some influence on transparency and choices, isn't it? The negatives. You put them in, too, and I, a little here, wanted to ask you, because I think we're losing something, don't we? That is to say, so much trouble and delay for order, and suddenly such a rush to the projecting cabbages, Fountains, Arkamos, and the Labraza projects? Here, when we discussed it a year ago, it was just a day when the horse fell, and I said to you: "You're starting a riot. You guys started wrong. It's a very protected area, it's CAC, it could be CAPA, there's necrophags." And you said to me, "For the time being, we're only measuring the wind. That's the plan." But now you have sent them to the law. It's not just that you've been in the projects for the European history fund, not just those four, but the Archanan, and it's by way of laughter that you're also planning to get into the Ebazan. This is the reason that many of you are passing through, and in very difficult places we shall say, and without arranging the land. And you know that if it hadn't been the success of the eolics, the other one, in a way, did it because that social license hadn't been made, didn't you? There are other reasons, and I have told you. But it seems to me that you have to think about it, you have to... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... That was it, wasn't it? There are other reasons, and I have told you. But it seems to me that you must reflect on this, that we must do it among all. And the need for further developments of energy is hell, and it's a lot to expand, I've been saying here for a long time that we need a large political and social alliance. And it's not so far done with these projects, it's not going that way, it's in a hurry and it's not looking for a political and social consensus that's going to get us into trouble. I think we need some consensus here, here for the protection of our natural fortune, and, if need be, we have a need to establish some areas of fencing, and that you are working in areas where many of them are very instinctive presses. I'm still there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u102	Thank you, Mr. Otero. To answer this, Mrs. Tapia, yours...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u103	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Otero, first of all, I must tell you that today is a good day to talk about energy, because today, well, today, March 5 is the day of the Ephergetic Ephence of the World. So it's a good day. And I'm glad we're going to go through some different types of energy, more... Then we'll talk about the gas. But it must be said, in this sense, that Europe herself tells us, and it is mentioned in the world-level, you yourself said that we need an efficient power management, because the best energy isn't used, and in this sense there's been a lot of effort in this country. We have gathered together to fight against the mythical transition and climateal change, as you know, through a new law, and in this we are working on a new proposition. And besides, what we're planning on is what we're working on, and what we're doing is making the energy plan on one side, and instead of making another against climate change, different plans, together, like the law. So I think that's what we're gonna have a chance to do. You mentioned another thing, and it's a guarantee of public safety. And in that sense, I think we've always tried to stay in separate projects with the Basque Energy organization. In fact, from the point of view of efficiency, he's put several and several of his enterprises through his history. When the gas changed just at the moment, I think it's been Euskakia who's used the gas most and so, CO. 2 He who had the least flow compared it with other lands, and in this sense he was a pioneer. And so it was with the resurrection. And that's what we're working on. You said yourself because it looks like we're working, and you said... That's exactly the day I remember that we were talking about the entire Union, or I remember the way the control ends, and when we finished, we started talking about it, when I said, "We're doing the marketing." Why? For both of us. On the one hand, you said the initial PTS will be politically dead, but he really lives in a country point of view and range. So, in that sense, we must begin to measure where the wind can be. Because we can all agree here, and you're the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's the one who's actually playing, but we want to go far away if it's the best way around another, around the other, but where there's the wind. And besides, what we have to study is when that PTS was done, and it also serves us for the new one, what we're doing here, the generators we've got today are quite different, much bigger. In less places they generate much more energy. Imagine, at that time, they were 500-600 kilos; they could now be six megawatttiums. So we multiplied it by ten. Where there were ten there will be one now. I think so, but we need to measure the wind higher. Well, these things have to be examined. And what we can't, at any rate, is true when we're doing this PTS, well, we're stretching out, because it takes time to measure that wind, and to study it very well, you said yourself, what kind of ground it must be, what kind of thing we're going to do when we have photoboltas. Well, there's a lot of stuff out there. He's working this PTS at the moment, and, well, when we're almost finished, at least the first draft, well, there'll be public interventions in that sense. So what we have to do is, when we say it, we're very backward in the reconnaissances, we're dealing with the neurontic efficiency, and the time is for us to get out of here. Let's use it while the other is ready, because we're going to spend two years if it goes too long, maybe we can shorten something. Two years without doing anything? I don't even think that's your attitude. So let's try to find out where the chances are and if we're really going to take advantage of debonization, we're gonna need a retractable choice. You mentioned something, and I agree with that, photobolts and eolics. We'll examine the oil on the sea as well as at the moment on the ground. Where? On our mountains. We'd like to see it in a cave without disturbing it, but the wind is on the mountains. So we have to do that. The absence of a new PTS should not be an obstacle to progress in the promotion of renewable energy, the setting up of new installations, international work and work with other countries such as, well, or an agreement with Scotland to encourage the use of marine energy and to bring it to Euskadi. Nothing on the agenda I think we can afford to stop it while we're thinking, quite retarded we are going, as you said well. We have ambitious, very ambitious objectives, which will be difficult for us to achieve. We must be proactive, and that does not mean that we will skip any tools, but quite the contrary; we have sufficient management instruments at the level of the autonomous community, at the level of the state, at the European level, that allow us to continue, and instruments that allow us to ensure that they are carried out and put into effect with all the average guarantees... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... that allow us to continue, and instruments that allow us to ensure that they are implemented and implemented with all environmental guarantees. And you were telling me, I'm an energy advisor, and I'm also an environmental advisor. Therefore, both things worry me and I have to take care of them. But not because I have to take care of them as my job, but, honestly, I think that's what we have to do. Every human activity, everything, generates an environmental impact. The aim is to ensure that this is the minimum possible and even to establish corrective measures that will allow us to continue to carry out this activity in the best possible way. And that's guaranteed. To this day, well, we commented, four wind farms in which we have made measurements, and are feasible to put new parks. What's the next step? To request the corresponding environmental authorization, to observe whether these parks are actually feasible to start up. He was referring to Ordunte. Why? Because he had an integrated environmental authorization, oh, sorry, a negative environmental authorization, that is, he didn't get it. That wind farm stopped. The four we want to set in motion, are they going to be a reality? I wish. But, of course, what we are starting is the process to know if it is possible to establish them, in which we can start and which is the most problematic and the most difficult. But, of course, what we can't do is... What we can't do is stop. There is no zero impact and we need to be able to reduce those impacts and establish the best technologies for that to be a reality. We are not going to counter and win economic activity on biodiversity care in any special protection area. Quite the opposite. You know well, because you are often well informed, that at the moment there are already very advanced wind generators that, at the time when certain birds pass around you, detect and stop them, so as not to generate any impact. Therefore, we have the capacity to carry it forward. And, with the determined action of the Basque Energy Agency, of course, we believe that this public part is well guaranteed. But, in addition to wind farms, which are relevant, if we refer to renewables, we have also launched two very different actions. Photovoltaic parks of a slightly larger dimension, by the hand of the Iberdrola itself, but also by the Krean company belonging to the Mondragon Group, together with the Basque Energy Agency, a park already in operation in Arasur and another park that we are working on, and all administrative processes are taking place. With this, with the two photovoltaic parks, I'm sorry, we would have covered 50% of our targets. And they're high-dimensional photovoltaic parks. But we don't want to just stick to big projects. And you know perfectly well that we have also launched, by the hand of Krean himself, of the Mondragon group itself, an initiative to democratize those renewable energies, in which the outlaws, the municipalities themselves are an active part, and the citizens, all of us, can act... Eta horretan part hartzeko gai race. So we do it to the great and the small in recurrent cases. And we do not forget, though our projects are very small, whatever we have about biotermy. So we listen to biomas. So we're going to do large and small projects for everyone, we've talked about it more than once. Self consumption as well. So when we examine the retals, the great are important in order to accomplish the goals, but we will listen to the small ones too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u105	- Valerie. There are some things I don't... Something I don't like, Mrs. Tapia. Of course, you were telling me we can't be waiting. And we have to move forward. But you told me last year that, for the time being, you were just measuring. And now he's telling me they're already processing. And, in fact, they've already been accepted. But has the wind been measured or not? He's measured himself. Ah, well, as far as I know, in Iturrieta it hasn't even gotten to install the meter, that is, something's not there for me, something's not there for me. And then you say where the wind is and we can't stay two years without doing anything. Hombre, not two years old. It's a warrant from 2009 that he needed PTS. Where we believe we didn't have to stand. If we have been standing still, it is precisely in the planning of the territory. And now, since we've been late... And now we're in a hurry to implement renewables, so now we're going to all milk. I think we're missing something. I have the impression that, all of a sudden, there has been this acceleration, I don't know if it's because of a matter of getting this into the European funds... Because it's a strange thing, because already (...) he warned you that wind turbines, that is, conventional renewables, let's say, had difficult access to European funds. But I do not understand why there is so much haste in this, rather than waiting for a matter as important as this important and large renewable deployment that needs to be done, waiting for political consensus and social consensus. And, of course, I say this, not for anything. I didn't want to go in and evaluate every particular location. But it is that the thing has its "that", that is, there are several things to highlight. I mean, both Azazeta and Iturrieta and Labraza... Everyone, even that of Arlaban or Entzia, is in Araba, everyone is in Araba. Why is everyone in Araba? Because it's the place where the least resistance we're gonna have? For there is wind in the mountains of Arabah, and there is wind in the mountains of Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia. And it's not a question from Araba's perspective to say, "Oh, so let's make them far away." But here we know where we all come from. And we know that the Bizkaia Diputation stood up in his day and said, "It's over. Neither Ganekogortas, nor Orduntes, nor anything." And then, let's go where the less resistance we're going to have. Because if we go, and you tell me that the instrument of ordination of the wind PTS I is in force. So, yes, the instrument of (...) of the wind PTS I what it is telling us is, that of the selected sites, we have a global condition of 100, of 100, of 50, 49, 47 in the parks made, Badaia, Elguea-Urkilla, that of Ordunte had one of 57, which is the one that had the negative environmental impact... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... of 50, 49, 47 in the parks made, Badaia, Elguea-Urkilla, the one of Ordunte had one of 57, which is the one that had the negative environmental impact, but it turns out that those of Arkamo and in the mountains of Iturrieta have between 70 and 75% according to the wind PTSE. Of course, the wind is where it is and the environmental problems are where they are, and they have been detected and published since 2002. And now it turns out that we're going to Iturrieta and Arkamo as the first option because we have a lot of wind there? No, no, no, no, no, no, no. What we have to say is to sit down with Iberdrola and say, look, because 100 % of the yield we are going to get is not compatible with the conservation of the natural heritage and we have to have a site that has something less of a profitability; because we are also investing 40 % and we also need to have a profitability. But we also need that profitability to be compatible with the social license. And we're going to go to places, we can't go to places where we're going to have more problems. So, that's where I'm telling you that we have to come up with agreements and look for sites that are a sort of global, social, business, administrative negotiation, in which we all say neither pa te nor pa me, and try to agree. But if we go with the first one on the front, without finishing measuring, we accelerate and we go to the sites that the wind PTSE itself is telling us are the most problematic, because we are going to meet with a frontal opposition, and they will also be right. And what can't be is that at this moment in which we are entering a fossil fuel substitution for renewable energy, at the first moment when we are going to accelerate this process we find that no one is following us; that we can't tell our own bases, neither you nor us nor anyone, that this is important, that this has to be done, but that we have to do it carefully, because people are going to feel abandoned. People are going to feel that the only thing we're thinking about is that, because in the old habit, the usual business, and it can't be, because that's not what it touches. And what cannot happen is that the fact that we have 40% in Aixendar and Iberdrola has 60%, becomes things like the answer I was given. That is, the majority partner, who is Euskadi Iberdrola's Winds, does not agree to give the information of Aixendar's projects. And this has given me Iñigo Ansola in writing. So let's start doing things right at once.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u106	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u107	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Otero, I am not going to get angry and answer you in bad ways, because I think there are certain things you have said that are not tolerable. But I'm gonna try to get over them and not get into that rag. First of all, you refer to the need for renewable energy, which we are far from the objectives, which we have gone unambitious, but then, however, as soon as a renewable energy project comes up, two or four, all are stuck, all are difficulties, all are difficulties. And, then, now the PTSE does not serve, the PTSE in force. Environmental impact studies are done for something, you fully trust them, I understand. Environmental impact studies are carried out in a rigorous, increasingly rigorous way, with the aim of ensuring that things are done in an appropriate way. However, I will also point out one thing to you, because it seems that when in a certain place, in a territory something is qualified, an area is qualified as part of the Natura 2000 Network with its ZEC and with its ZEPA, with both things, that is untouchable. Nothing further from reality, nothing further from reality. You should read all those European documents that qualify the Natura 2000 Network, and I think I have said that in this rostrum on some occasion. What it says in the Natura 2000 Network is that we protect spaces, and for this we protect habitats of certain plants and animals that exist in those habitats, and we protect those habitats in order to combine two things: biodiversity with human activity and economic activity. The European Union says so. Then, if we trust that all those analyses that we are going to do strictly, in this case on our wind farms, but also on photovoltaics, we will understand that when we have a positive impact statement we will be able to carry on that project, since we will have the necessary compensatory measures to ensure that we are doing it properly. And, of course, what I cannot say is that the impact that existed in 2002, with the 2002 technology, with the 2002 environmental guarantees, is the same as today's. The wind spaces are the same, but the guarantees are really different. Let's not trap ourselves in solitary, Mr. Otero. You refer me to the Next projects. Of course, we have introduced them, since they are renewable energies, we have introduced them. But we have said it, we have repeated it, it's cold-blooded henchman said, Kamara honetan esan dut lehenago ére eta hainbat lekuetan, Next projektuak, Next funtsak iritsi ala ez, badira projektu garrantzitsu batzuk herri honetan aurrera eraango ditugunak; eta hauek, hor tartean daude. For we really believe that some of our neighbours, of the Navarres, are like mountains, if they can do it and do it well, and we admit that we do well; Or are we fewer than those around? I don't think so, I don't think. Therefore we have the power, and let us do it and in general. But let's not get mixed up with society and I know who and what. A ver, if we have the instruments to guarantee them, let's do it. Or is it really necessary to make a few homes in a country that agree with society where they are made? Well, there are some instruments that are urbanistic and make environmental tests and, really, fairly instrumental, we have enough instruments to guarantee things are done well. And in this society we trust in it. Finishing up. Honestly, Mr. Otero, I want to end up in the positive. You said at first, if we really need to find each other on the road, you'll have to take a little walk and I'll take a little... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... and I want to end up in the positive. You said at first, if we really need to find each other on the way, you'll have to take a little walk and I'll take a walk, but it's no use sitting there and moving me around, that's no good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 15th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, "about the state of the aeronautic sector" of Economics, the Congress of the Ciudadans, the Economics Department of Economics, the Economics Department of Economics. " Mr. Gil is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Councilwoman, with today's question we are trying to focus on a reality that we are all living on the street, which is the problematic situation, the difficult situation in the aviation sector. Falling from up to the (?)60 % of the production that has resulted in the loss of 200 jobs, more than 200 direct jobs and a lot more indirect jobs so far, because this will increase, reflect a very worrying situation and we cannot and must not fail to wonder about the root causes of this situation. And we already know that it is easy to shield ourselves in the health pandemic to explain this failure in the fall of aeronautical orders, etc., but some analysts think that the Basque aeronautical sector was already dragging structural deficiencies that were being covered, occupied, by a demand that had been growing in previous years and we already know that when demand rises all structural deficiencies are easily covered. As always happens, crises end what was already structurally weak. One of the most obvious weaknesses in the sector was the low investment in research and development, and that is why I ask you: did the Government see this situation dragged forward since 2011?, what did it do to prevent it?, what concrete steps has the Government taken to promote innovation and development in the Basque aeronautical sector that would have been able if not to avoid, at least to alleviate the current catastrophe?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u110	Thank you, Mr. Gil. In reply, Mrs. Tapia is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u111	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Gil, first of all I think we need to be a little more rigorous. It is not that it is easy to shield in the pandemic, it is that the pandemic has made mobility disappear in the world and that the demand for flights at this time is scarce, (?), practically non-existent, and if not, simply, if we approach our largest airport, to Loiu, we will see how the situation has changed. If there are no companies flying, probably, those companies do not buy new planes, there are no orders, there is no maintenance, then, it is not that anyone is shielded in the pandemic, it is that the pandemic is a reality, and all the analysts to which you referred, do not foresee any of them a recovery of the sector to 70%, not 100% of what they were doing in 2019 before the year 2024-25. So, I think it's not an excuse, it's a reality. He tells me there was a situation... that some analysts said the previous situation was inappropriate. Well, you consult our cluster, its results, the analyses it does and I think they are not expert analysts, they are the ones that every day analyze the reality, and of course, the R & D+i that was being carried out was not only funded by the Basque Government, which also, by the Government of the State, but by the European Union itself through initiatives such as that of (?)Clean Sky, which then moved on to the new call. Therefore, in R & D some more and others less, but it has been investing and has been investing a lot.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Gil is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u113	Counselor, let's be rigorous, to put some rigorous data on the table. In 2019 the sector had 5,244 workers in Euskadi, but of these R & D employees, who, as we all know, are critical for such a sector, i.e. high-tech, were 3.5% less than in 2012 and investment in this area has also fallen by 37%, from 193 million euros to 121 million euros. By the way, this investment is a (?68% private and 22% public. You tell me to refer me to the cluster data. Indeed, according to Hegan's latest annual report, that is to say, the aeronautical cluster in Euskadi 2019, prior to the pandemic, the percentage of turnover destined for the investigation was only 4.63%, reducing from the maximum achieved in 2011. We can see it very clearly in this graph that shows to the clear that before the pandemic we had been suffering gradual declines in R & D, it is very clear. The reality, counselor, is that we think that this crisis has burst into their faces without seeing it come and without having done anything relevant to prevent it. And since we are talking about public investment, of EUR (...) million financed by the Programme (...), for example, only 6.8% have been targeted at companies in the aviation sector, in particular EUR 5.9 million. I hope that, even if the batteries are put on late, you will stop seeing bulls from the barrier and take effective measures to strengthen the most critical sectors of our economy by looking at the long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u114	Thank you, Mr. Gil. In reply, Mrs. Tapia is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u115	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Gil, I think we're confusing terms or not making it complete. It tells me about the workers in R & D companies, but it is that these companies also hire technology centers and universities that also do a lot of R & D for those companies; so let's put everything together. He tells me that only 4%. I wish all companies in this country would invest 4% of their resources in R & D+i, because we would probably have much better results. Let me tell you something else: at this time, in addition to the R & D they carry out through our research centres, through their own resources, they also do so through entities of a state and international character, but from the Autonomous Community itself there are two very relevant resources which, of course, help these actions and which in some cases are also, I will tell you not only helpers but essential. One is the CTA, which has two facilities, one in Bizkaia and the other in Álava, as you know, the Aeronautics Technology Centre, which are two facilities that are essential to be able to carry out a series of R & D activities very close to the market, both for ITP and for Aernnova, where the Basque Administration with the outlaws, also according to the Basque Government, invest a lot of money for these actions to exist. So, well, I think it's been a long time. But it also started in the past... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ...invest a lot of money to make these performances exist. So, well, I think it's been a long time. But in addition, the Aeronautics Manufacturing Centre, the CFA, in Bizkaia, was launched in the past legislature. The CFA in Bizkaia which also unites not only the companies most directly related to the aeronautical sector, but companies dedicated to being suppliers of that sector, which allow us to be, of course, in a much better position. Can you do more? Yeah. Should more be done? Also. And I don't want to forget one thing and it's that the R & D of our companies, but those of everyone in the world, depends on new aircraft being launched. And there are years where investment is very high because it is being investigated in new aircraft in motion, and where there are no new aircraft in motion, obviously, investment is falling, but that is something all over the world, something natural, and that does not mean that companies are not making a special effort to prepare for these new aircraft. Therefore, I have no doubt that we all do everything we can and, in addition, the State has put a new plan in place in which we will also participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 16th point in the theme list: "The question is, that the legislatures of the Obi-Gatherdi-EH team have been made to the head of Economics, patience, and environmental department, about the licenses of the "Arentia-2 well." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u117	Hello again, Mrs. Tapia. If we have a problem with the screens, I'll tell you what to say about the gas. I wanted to ask you to know if you had to appeal to Armentia-2 the license of the gas well. You've answered all week, yes, you've already entered. And knowing that, can you explain why you've done this stupid thing?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u118	Thank you, Mr. Otero. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u119	Mr. Otero, I think it explained very well, but I'll tell you. Two reasons prevail. On the one hand, the right we have of preserving the public and the security of the public. So because we need to know, and because we have to guarantee that this permission is still in the hands of the public. And besides, we'd say that this committee, because there are also private people in this society. We are responsible for it and guarantee it, and if we don't guarantee that we're still alive, we'll have such a responsibility, a responsibility, a responsibility, and it'll cost us a lot more money. There are, therefore, two general reasons, at least administrative reasons. And then we'll go on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u121	That's not true according to the Hydrobrook Law. Everything you're doing is really ugly, and you know it. You said, Tapia, the day before yesterday at the Forum that this Araba gas is kilometre 0 and that it helps in the fight against climate change because it emits less CO2, than the gas from outside and so on... And I know what I thought? I said, run, if it's so good for the weather, why don't you present it to the European funds within the Next projects? They're not gonna do it, they're not gonna do it. You know why? Because if they present this as part of the ecological transition, the laughter of the European Commission will be heard from Timbuktu. You guys at this height with the gas are like that one that goes in the car, right?, and listens to the radio and hears "care, attention that there is a madman on the road going in the opposite direction" and you say "no, as one, as one", but you are all, those going in the opposite direction, because that's it, that's how you are, alone and in the opposite direction. To continue with this, to bring this into contention, is to go against everything and everyone, against the will of the people, against the rest of the political arc, including the partner of government, against the climate, the renewables, the common sense. I told you a long time ago, it's all against it but you're wrong that it's wrong, with a problem that the PNV created, kept alive and wants to perpetuate. Because here what you are is part of the problem and you have to do a few things to be part of the solution. First of all, stop lying, even before yesterday at the economic forum you were talking about gas bags in Subijana. Lie. We've known for a long time that there's no gas bags, it's an unconventional deposit, no bags, and we'd have to punch palm by palm. And you know it, but you consciously do it to generate a favorable state of opinion. And that's cheating. The second is to stop supporting a ruinous public company, Euskadi Hydrocarbons, yes, which, once again, despite its profitability, has again buried more than 3 million euros in its provisional balance sheet of 2020, and continues to suck another 4 million and peak in the budgets of 2021. The third, stop trying to fix by the back door of the court the mistake of Euskadi Hydrocarbons, which knowing that it could not be drilled there for 10 years, lio, for the second time the mess. And through that very door behind the court you're trying to get a license that you can't vote for in Gasteiz, because in Gasteiz, in Araba, and I would say that also here, if one day the SOE speaks, you're alone. And the fourth. You were talking at the Forum about appealing to keep the rights alive. Keeping the right alive, the right alive to what and for what? You know you're in a Game Over right now. Now you have tried it in Madrid with the Climate Law, you have tabled a lot of amendments so that you can continue with the exploration and exploitation of gas. But that's already happened. The paper has already voted on a compromise amendment that has left your amendments out and that you know that all claims will remain there. Even if you win the resource, even if you explore you know you won't be able to explode, so that's it. I mean, this is over. Oh yes, bukatu yes, bapo. Ez dago bilbid gehiagorik. It's a matte check, it's a matte check and you're not even realizing it, and this is already starting to be a mess, that's right, along the way wasting time and making bad time, and everyone's money, in a litigation that's not going to take you anywhere even if you earn it and you know it. It's time to get out of the ass and something else, butterfly.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u122	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, that's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u123	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Otero, I am very happy that you were so interested in my speech at the Forum, I am very happy, I hope you listened to all the speech and not just the one about gas. I told him that, from the point of view of rights, what right, the right of exploration within a society of which we are managers as a public institution to guarantee precisely the public management of that right of exploration. That's part of it. And it will agree with me, no matter how much you don't like it, that, in fact, when we talk about it being a zero kilometre gas, we have to explore first to find out if there's that resource, if there's enough, and if we can extract it... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ...in fact, when we talk about it being a zero kilometre gas, we have to explore first to find out if there is such a resource, if there is enough and if we can extract it. Because it may be the case that geological studies tell us yes, but when we do the exploration it is not possible. And if there's enough recourse, we'll decide whether or not to take it out. But it is our duty as a public administration to know whether or not it exists. Two. The European Union, to which you so much refer, precisely what you say is that natural gas until 2050, where we are going to be carbon neutral, or that is our goal, natural gas has to be transitional energy. Having said that, and you accept it, and the comrades of Podemos too, of Elkarrekin Podemos accept it, now, we are in the same, the gas that we bring it from another place. So, you'll tell me, suppose you get out with the same technology and that the gas emissions are the same here, in Algeria or in Trinidad and Tobago, which is where the gas usually comes from, do you think you have to bring it here, the CO2 emissions are greater or smaller? What is decarbonizing? And what is fighting climate change? Produce CO2 emissions. I don't think I'm wrong. Therefore, if we really think that this is our goal, we will really pursue it, with energy efficiency, with renewables, with natural gas and with the hydrogen strategy, which Europe is of course starting to push it, and where we want to be too. Four pillars on which we are going to be, in the four, in the four, because the four are important and will certainly help us to decarbonize and to be carbon neutral in the year 2050. Now, what I'm not worth is saying "not here." Not here, because here CO2 is emitted and here it is a resource that is certainly not sustainable. Now, if it comes from Trinidad and Tobago, let you know how they get that gas, because I don't know, I don't know, and how much gas they emit, that's what I mean, that's much better, but that's important for Euskadi, without that Euskadi gas it can't work. We're going to stop being, let me say, hypocrites and we're going to work on each and every one of the needs to really decarbonize our economy. That's our goal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question about the movements of the neighbours, who accuse the dangers against health and health, of economic development, patience, and environmental developments, together with David Soso Rodríguz together. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u125	Madam Councilwoman, tell him that, at last, in what was currently taking place as a debate, we find it absolutely embarrassing and hypocritical to talk a week before encouraging and pushing green hydrogen, as you mentioned now and, in turn, to say this week that the resource is going to be brought in to continue with the gas explorations in Subijana. As you have already been told, it is absolutely shameful, even more so when there is a general consensus on the part of both the City of Gasteiz and the municipal government, as well as its partner in government and the whole of the Alavesa society. In any case, going to the specific question we want to ask you, what the Basque Government intends to do to ensure that polluting companies do not pose a health hazard and that citizens exercise their right to participation and access to information.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u126	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mrs. Gadden Tapia, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u127	Mrs. President, I'll allow you to ask me how it wasn't, but she's intercepted it. You don't seem to have heard it, Mr. Soto. I've already said that there are four columns of our earthly strategy, as Europe has: retractables, neurogenic efficiency, hydrogen and natural gas as transitions. We'll work at four. At four. Not just at once. But if you want to see that there are only three of them, it's your problem. Dena den, galdetzen didazu zer egin behar dugune emissio horiek kontrolatzeko. Ba noski, momentu honetan proceed to make the absolute inspection of the Integrated Environmental Authorities that are given in a specific and special and detailed way for each of these companies, as you well know, where the best practices are collected according to the technical commissions that exist in the European Union in respect of each of these companies. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u129	Referring to the gas explorations of Subijana, tell him that his party in the negotiation processes has assumed not to engage in further gas explorations. Therefore, that assumption of that agreement indicates that you do not intend, at least in the medium term, to impact those four legs but on three; if not, one would assume his political party not to carry out further gas explorations or permit licences. As far as the question we have put to you is concerned. There are countless citizen movements, the movement against fracking, which already mentioned it; Zaldibar Argitu, Platforma GuraSOS, citizens of Erandio and citizens of Erandio and Durango in relation to air quality, Güeñes Bizia in relation to Glefaran and the irregularities and pollution they develop, Zalla Bai in relation to the landfill of Zalla. Finally, these citizen platforms which are set up to respond to the uncontrolled exercise by certain polluting companies in this country, of their action, do not arise by atmospheric effect. These platforms arise to respond to a citizen's concern about what the Basque Government does not develop, which are the necessary and comprehensive control protocols. In this sense, we are going to process, or we are already with the appearances, but, in any case, we are going to process the amendments shortly in view of the Environmental Administration Act, which is the law that must control these companies. We hope that, in this regard, they will have the help to ensure that, with regard to the amendments that our political formation may propose, they can have greater control over polluting companies and also in the exercise of the right to information that these platforms insist on demanding with regard to these polluting companies. To tell you that, in the end, the existence of so many platforms, so many public complaints, and now also in relation to the question of gas explorations in Subijana, denote that, in the end, tacitly or otherwise, either by omission the Basque Nationalist Party or its... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... of gas in Subijana, they point out that, in the end, tacitly or otherwise, either by omission, the Basque Nationalist Party or its Department in particular, in the end, is a serious risk in relation to pollution in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u130	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u131	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I didn't know I was a risk to the environment. In any case, in relation to gas explorations, no more means that those that we have, by the way, in force, with the authorization of the Ministry of Ecological Transition and Demographic Challenge, we can use it. No more means that the ones we have do. As far as all issues related to emissions are concerned, I have told you, the best practices, best practices according to the technical commissions of the European Union are introduced into the comprehensive environmental authorisations for each of the companies. They have fixed meters that automatically send us the data. Therefore, a general review is made and a comprehensive review is made of how they are being implemented. In addition, as you are well aware, there are meters that are not fixed, that exist in motion with a series of very exhaustive determinants, and improvements have been analyzed and observed. And we have worked with companies, and the last in Goierri, with nickel emissions in three years, we have managed to reduce them by 90%. Then there is will on the part of the Department, yes, but also of the companies in which that is so. But there is a regulation that is being complied with. With regard to participation, there is also a law of transparency that obliges us to provide such information. And we do not know that we have not given the information to any citizen collectives who so requested. We will therefore continue to work to provide the best information and to be absolutely transparent in law enforcement. The fixed stations that exist in the network and the mobile stations that the Department has to carry out inspections, I believe they are the best ones that exist at this time. However, there is a possibility of introducing another set of aspects that will allow us to deal with many situations that are improveable. And I will tell you more, there are some of the aspects that have been improved in Durango, for example, that have been detected as a result of air quality measurements, that have been incorporated as a result of these best practices being carried out, and that have been incorporated into the European Union in those technical commissions as a result of something being done in Euskadi. Therefore, it is not that we want to breastfeed at this time, we have many things to improve, of course, but, of course, I believe that in this respect a great many steps are being taken and that all these emissions are being improved from many points of view, which must be integrated into that authorisation and constantly inspected. But it is not the only thing that is done and we will continue to work with each and every one of the collectives that will send it to us; offering them all the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question of David Soso Rodríguz, together with Podemos-Nozzeral members of the Antizian Division of Economics, patience, and environmental department, as to the project of VíaIrun." Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u133	Madam Counsellor, given the importance of the VíaIrun project for the territory of Gipuzkoa, and specifically for the region of Bidasoa, we would like to know what position the Basque Government has and specifically its Department on it and what lines of collaboration and support they have put in place or intend to put in place.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u134	Thank you, Mr. Soto. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u135	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Soto, I understand that having been a councillor until almost four days ago, you will know perfectly well all the movements and all the relations that exist between the Irun City Hall, among all that is the municipal corporation and the various departments of the Basque Government that are involved, which is not only ours. And, of course, I would like to make a brief review. That this project had its origins there for approximately 2011, well, as I was lucky enough to work on this inter-institutional protocol between the municipal government, the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council, the Basque Government and the Government of the State, the Ministry of Development, was signed on 11 March. And, of course, the three local institutions, but also the Ministry of Development, we have made a number of commitments and it has been up to us to work from each of the initiatives. And, of course, I can tell you that from the Basque Government all the initiatives considered have been launched and worked on. We've been doing everything we could, everything. As far as the railway side is concerned, of course, the Basque Government has worked, worked and worked with the will to implement and enrich the project; to do it better. We have worked on it and the last of the performances, and you know it, was to integrate the Top, the station of the Top, into all that is the project ViaIrun. Remove the station from the center of (...) and enter it. We have made those commitments and we have fulfilled them. Well, I think there are other commitments that haven't been so fulfilled. The high-speed train has not arrived at the required time, and, in addition, there has been a cut by the Ministry of Development of Adif in respect of the initial commitments of, in some way, disaffection and release of tracks. So, well, since they are part of the government, in the municipal government and in addition in the government of the state, it is up to it, because perhaps it would be interesting for each of the administrations to fulfil all the commitments made in that year 2011. Don't you think so?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u137	Madam Counsellor, at last, to say that we find it surprising that a project of such magnitude that, in fact, right now, it is going to defuse 65,000 square meters of beach of roads for its urban development, but that as a whole they involve 300,000 square meters of urban development that it is going to harmonize a city broken in two with a tremendous urban scar. And, in turn, taking into account the need of the region for employment and also innovative development, it is surprising to us, and this has been something that has been verbalized by all the political forces of the Consistory, indeed, with the exception of its own, we find it surprising that it has not been included or at least not been discussed with the Irún City Council regarding the inclusion of this project in the European funds; what has happened with other projects directly... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... with the Municipality of Irún regarding the inclusion of this project in the European funds; this has happened with other projects directly. I say, given the important importance of this project in terms of employment generation, innovation and also the recovery of the railway area in Irún. Yes, in relation to what has to do with the procedures for the homogenization of the railway space, with the inclusion of the mole lines, indeed, there are steps being taken. But let us remember that initially, initially, there was no question of homogenizing the lines of the mole with the railway lines and with the international station, which the Government of Spain is going to build in the railway space of Via Irun, but rather that there was a question of the underground, an absurd, absurd option. And the only reason why this possibility was raised was because of the obsession of the council, at the time, in that permanent persecution that makes of those spaces not governed by his party. Because Irún is a city, which no longer only has to do with the inclusion of this project in the European funds, has been suffering, on countless occasions, also with regard, for example, to the southern variant, which is now developing many years after it should have been done, there are certain statements from him a few years ago regarding the non-necessity of making this southern variant in a city of so much transit... Finally, simply to tell him that we believe that, on the part of his department and the Basque Government as a whole, there is no willingness to push this project as it should be done, which is done with other projects in the capital. And also to say that this affects what has already been denounced by the Irún City Council and other municipalities in Gipuzkoa, which has to do with the permanent territorial imbalance to which they lead us in that historical territory and in the whole of Euskadi, encouraging projects, and in the European funds it has been seen, encouraging very concrete projects, always linked to the capitals, and leaving aside medium and small cities in the participation and in the elaboration of these projects that come to promote and generate employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u138	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u139	President andrea. Mr. Soto, you have done yourself a good job. If it really was necessary for the mole station to be perfectly integrated within the international station, there it is. There it is and we have worked to make it so. If we work, moreover, from the point of view of the management of these soils, as you well know, for having been a councillor, there is a society called Zaisa, which changed its statutes, on the proposal of the Irun City Council. All of us who are there, who are the three institutions, accept this. The three institutions participate in this society. The Basque Government has also changed its statutes and adopted them in the Governing Council. And we are an intrinsic part of the management of that project. It's not that we join later, it's that we're from the beginning, it's that we're from the beginning on that project. We haven't joined, nor do we have to join later. There are possibilities of development, as you say, of trying to remove that gap that exists in Irún, and of an important development from the point of view of a business industrial park, let's say, a business park, with various uses. And we've treated him, as you well know, with the mayor. And it is also being dealt with from the part of the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation, making available all the instruments we have. Therefore, I have said this before with Mr Otero, with the Next projects. Is a project important or no longer important, because it is or is not on a list? A project is important if we really believe in it and are going to allocate resources to it and have ways of acting. There are resources, it is not our competence right now, but there are resources in ETS to do so, there are resources, of course, in that society of which it is part of the Basque Government. And there are other tools available to develop this area. Therefore, the will to do so is not that it is will, it is that there is commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question of Unai Fernandez de Betoño De Lacuesta, the parliamentary members of the EH Collectors, of the planeting Plants, Housings, and the Commander of Transports, a decree to develop the 10/2019 Law of June on the organization of great commercial settlements." Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u141	Yes, good noon to all. On the 16th of February you have established public consultations that must develop a new decree, law of the Ordimental Laws of the 2019 Great Trade Centers. We want to know what kind of criteria you're going to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u142	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. To wear it out, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Fernandez de Betoño, in the Department of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport we have recently, as you said, begun the processing of the decree of development of the Law on Territorial Planning of Large Commercial Establishments. The decree in which work is under way must complete the general legal framework of the establishment and, where appropriate, expansion of the large commercial establishments, and it will do so from the very beginning with respect to the philosophy of the law adopted unanimously in this Parliament in June 2019, inciting and deepening the reasons of general interest, environmental and spatial planning, in order to ensure that both the law and its development decree have the greatest legal certainty.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u144	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u145	Yes, thank you. Chief Arriola, we'd like to ask this question differently or we'd like it to be wasted. I mean, we think the decree should be suspended on the site as in other cases. And the absence makes us uncomfortable. What are you hiding, Chief Arrian, about the great centers of commerce? You laugh, but we're right to ask this question because a year ago we were told that you were publicly agreed to the government of Madrid in 2019... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... for we were told a year ago that you had publicly agreed with the government of Madrid, because you agreed that the law of 2019 would not be carried to the Constitution by this decree. So I don't think there's more than enough to think that this decree is meant to deify the law of 2019, to recommend it. And so, even though you tell me you're going to continue philosophy, we think it's going to make fun of you again for the big surfaces. In private, as well as in the case of EAJ and PSE, you always make favor of the little trade, but then we see that you are in favor of the great centers of commerce. And, for instance, a few weeks ago, when the pandemic data was still very bad, what have you done? You have chosen to go shopping in the neighboring townships, and you have taken this measure, especially by the pressure of the great centers of commerce. We think you're already showing a very badgestium on this subject. Since the 2015th, it must be remembered that the Supreme One had spattered him, that he had thrown down the Sectorial Land, which limited the great centers of commerce. And since then, you've been pulling back and delaying, you've started doing another plan, and then you said you had to make a law. And at last we agreed to make a new law of opposition groups, because there was another arithmetic during the previous law. And then there was no other way for you to catch up with that law than to merge. But we think you don't believe in that law. And you've delayed so much that other projects have been colonized. For instance, Gartak has already doubled his surface because you've postponed everything that's been made up to you just now. For instance, you also had a project of the Knights of sandborn macros. Right now, he's canceled for other reasons. Then what I say is: you defend by your tongue the small trade, but then you defend the great tracts of commerce in business. You have mentioned the articles you are about to change, and it is precisely the most important articles that limit the surfaces of great trading centers. So we think we have enough reason to suspect them, and we'd like to know exactly what's to change. We hope you don't neglect it too much, but we think you'll have to explain to the little merchants why you're going to honor the big trade centers of 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u146	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u147	Mr Fernandez de Betoño, the decree is in its initial phase. Public consultation has been announced prior to the drafting of the rule, as provided for in article 133.1 of the Law on Common Administrative Procedure for Public Administrations. This step is preliminary and aspires to seek the views of representative individuals and organizations potentially affected by this normative development. I do not know what kind of suspicion you intend to spread, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, but I assure you that this is a procedure that is usually carried out in any regulatory development of the Basque Government before having a draft of the text. The process will then continue with different phases, including public information, at which point the existing texts and documentation are presented in the participation of all citizens. Do not confuse the previous public consultation with the public information phase, because they are different things. But (...) the content of the decree, it must deepen the law, a rule that was precisely adopted to respond to the parts of the sectoral territorial plan of large commercial areas of 2004, whose limitations, administration, extension of these areas outside the urban cores were annulled by the High Court, pardon, by the Supreme Court in 2015, on the grounds that it was a limitation of an economic nature. As you well know, this is not a peaceful issue, and it affects many administrations in the legal field: local, autonomous, state or even European. And that is why the decree – now in writing – has the will to demonstrate that the criteria for whether or not to accept the establishment or expansion of large commercial establishments outside urban centres strictly responds to land management reasons for urban, social and environmentally sustainable development. And not others of an economic-merchant nature, prohibited – as you well know – by European legislation. He has no doubt that this department has a will to respect the law passed by this House and to do so at the same time by taking away the legal doubts that may have arisen in other administrations. We will also do so by extending the relevant consultation to the European Commission to ratify that the decree complies with the Community directive and the case law of the European High Court of Justice. And every time we talk about this matter we usually say the same thing, talking here in this debate about this law, or this decree, and talking about the interests of the small traders or the large surfaces is giving quarters to the advertiser. And it does no favour to the legal certainty of the decree we pass or of the law itself. Because we do not support with this decree, nor with the law, nor small trade, nor large surfaces. What we are proposing is sustainable and balanced development, based on environmental and land management considerations. That's what we do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u148	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The twentieth point in the theme list: "Interpologies of Jule's Arzuga, the parliamentary laws of the Society of Equality, Justice, and Polylice, concerning the burning and observation of the victims of the 3th of March." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u149	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. "There's been a massacre here. We have contributed to the greatest beating in history." This is how an officer of the Armed Police boasted of what happened 45 years ago here in Gasteiz, after shooting more than 1,000 shots, gasping and beating a crowd that crowded the church of the neighborhood of Zaramaga. They came to sow desolation, to generate suffering. Desolation and suffering of violence... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... came to sow desolation, to generate suffering. Desolation and suffering that of police violence, that of state terrorism that, indeed, came to stay." On March 3, 1976, thousands of workers were making a peaceful gathering in the San Francisco church, for social justice, for worthy employment, for democracy and freedom, in other words, against fascism. Pedro Maria Martinez Ocio, Francisco Aznar, Romuldo Barrso, Joseph Castalillo, and Berevendo Pereda were killed, besides killing 150 more people. After this the police killed two other people: Viente Anton, the Wilder, and Juan Gabriel Rodrigo, Tarragon. A whole state operation with Martín Villa and Manuel Franga. "Quue sirva de grand lección para todo el país en los los masis praeximus," said the last. 45 years of Spanish government, which is descended from this hour's government, has not observed them at all. The Spanish government hasn't taken over the responsibility. These victims are still waiting for a statement like this. They waited, but they didn't stop. In the course of 45 years, victims, memory associations, unions, mere Gasteian citizens have continued to work for justice and memory. Artolazabal andrea, just over a year ago, victims of that massacre, the Martxoak 3 Elkartea Association, trade unions, historians, academics, professionals, people on foot gasteiztarras, formed the platform Memoria Gara. This initiative drafted a memorial project for the church of Zaramaga, that building of architect Luis Peña Ganchegi, now in disuse, to recover as a symbol of that massacre. Memoria Gara has prepared a proposal for this space, related to the memory of the victims of the massacre, with the values for which they fought, of social justice, of decent employment, of freedom, of democracy, and how not, for the truth, for justice, for the reparation of the crimes against humanity that were perpetrated against them. In this book, recently published, I think that recently came from the printing press, I think you have a copy in pdf, which was already transmitted by Memoria Gara, the general outlines of that project that has been drawing this initiative. A proposal with which they aim to lay the foundations on the contents, intervention in space, process of creation and management of it. They are conscious that they cannot develop such a project without the intervention of institutions. The work of institutions, the work of institutions, and the complication of institutions, are therefore considered as necessary. They accept that the Gastei City, the Foru Aldodedia and the Euskoe will be a part of this project. They put you in an interview, and I know you're in contact with them, and I think that's the way. The subject, in some ways, has come to this legislature in the project of this year's budgets, was marked in the memory of the Mrs. Artola generous's department: "Instruction of the Red House Show in the Guernica bombarde Museum exhibit, and the exhibits around the 3rd March Gastei." That's how he planned the budget. You plan to combine or integrate into some of the different parts of three projects. As I say, those who have a slightly different character are the public display of the violent porque, only the public, and has the budget of 151,000 euros, are managed by a foundation, especially by the public, although other institutions are also named in it, with a budget of 1,000 dollars per year. And I want to ask you a question, which is: March 3 has no budget, why he has no budget for 2021 years, and why he has no budget, i.e. he'll have the character of the public, or he'll accept some other part of the administration, the organization, the organization, the organization, the nation, and, in this case, the victims. I repeat that I understand that the institutions have a decisive role to play in this project, but I want to know what role you give victims and social organizations. On 18 February, a protocol of intentions was published and signed by the Basque Government, Diputación, Ayuntamiento, with the Diocese of Vitoria. The Memoria Gara movement greeted that document as a first step. However, we believe that it does not offer much concrete expression of the commitments made, and that is why we have recorded some written questions of respect for it. This agreement to use the church of Zaramaga is therefore to be concluded. And it remains to define and consensus the memorial project, to establish a timetable of work, and of course, to provide it with economic resources. And we think there must be Memoria Gara. The church of Zaramaga is not just a cold container of objects. It is a symbol with soul, which must remain alive, renewing the dreams, hopes of democracy and social justice of the men and women who occupied it in assembly on March 3, 1976. Memoria Gara does not perceive it as a static space, but dynamic, active, to maintain those initiatives that have been further developed in recent years: didactic initiatives... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... dynamic, active, to maintain those initiatives that have also been developing in recent years: didactic, educational initiatives, continue with the visits they make so that the most veterans do not forget what happened and so that the youngest ones can know. I dare say that Memoria Gara does not want a place of memory, it wants a home for memory in the church of Zaramaga; where memory lives, where it grows, develops, is transmitted, transformed and is, moreover, transformative. The Memoria Gara initiative says textually: "We do not contemplate any other scenario than to contribute to this process. We are involved in both its design and its management, as has been done in other similar memorial projects throughout the world." I would like to ask you, Mrs Artolazabal, whether you agree with this assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u150	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u151	The chief physician, the chief physician, the members of the legislature, all good days. First of all, thank you, Mr. Arzuga, for your question. There is no doubt that if this is the case for all of us, the Gasteiz and March 2ktimes will have the site of memory they deserve. Nos moment a todos y todas un objectitiv compartdo: "Que Vitoria-Gastez y las víctimas de aquael trucagico y luctuo 3 de marzo de 1976 in el Spuril Memoir que meec." March 3rd remains alive in our imagination, in the imagination of the Gasteiztarras, in the imagination of all the Basque Democrats. Pedro Mari Martínez Ocio, Francisco Aznar Clemente, Romualdo Barroso Chaparro, José Castillo García and Welcome Pereda Moral and the hundreds of people injured that day deserve much more with the day to year in our memory. They deserve to be living memory for many reasons: for the right to truth, memory, recognition, reparation and justice. It deserves to be a living memory because among all we want to build a future with memory, a future in peace and freedom. 45 years have passed since March 3, 1976, a time that has not been silent and forgotten. But yes, it's true, it's too long, too long. Denbora gehiegi egia ofizialik gabe. Denbora gehiegi martxoaren 3 year Gasteizen police armatuak indarkeria berezi gabe eta legez kontra ebiltzeagatik Statuak beharrezko autokritika egin era weretzukizunak berez gain hartu gabe. Denbora gehiegi bidezko konponketarik gabe. As he said, too long without an official truth, too long without the necessary self-criticism and the assumption of responsibility by the State for the indiscriminate and illegitimate use of violence by the armed police on 3 March in Vitoria-Gasteiz. And too much time without a fair repair. Too long without offering the memory of March 3 the worthy place it deserves. I don't think anyone was quiet. Once we've made decisions, in those days even society's initiative has been difficult to do, and that's what you said in your interaction. I don't have any trouble confessing the work of social initiative, so I'm going to give it value. A hard work, meritable, but not enough for a shared purpose; Biktimes of March 3 deserved the possibility of the space of memory. All of us were aware, there was a gap of difficult solution. You and the institutions knew that. We were aware that the March 3 Memorial only asked to have one location: the very stage of the events, which was the Church of San Francisco de Assisi in Zaramaga neighborhood. It was the only scenario that could give its true meaning to the Memorial of March 3, and that space was devoted to other purposes; ends incompatible with that of the memorial space. Until 2014, the church had dedicated its original function to religious worship. And, later, it was handed over, as you know, to the San Francisco Foundation of Assisi with a religious-cultural activity centered on belenism. And, Mr Arzuaga, you were fully and fully aware that the goal was not easy. It was very difficult to get the Church of San Francisco of Assisi free of the uses to which it was intended and to make possible an assignment of use for the location there of the space of memory. And we have devoted ourselves to that during the last few years, months, and very especially during the last few weeks before this February 18th. As the chief physician of equality, of justice, and of the Policicic society, since I took upon me the responsibility of the beautiful euphora of memory, I shall not enter the legislature to emphasize my personal motives. My sentimental connection with the massacre of Zamagora matches the massacre of thousands of gastesians. I strongly acknowledge that the social initiative has worked extensively on various initiatives linked to the project, but I can assure you that the institutions too. And in the end the work has borne fruit and the conditions of opportunity have been created for the first great objective to have been achieved. And at this moment, I believe it is also fair to recognize the passage finally taken by the Bishopric to deal with this first objective and to enable it to be achieved. The agreement that the Basque Government, the City of Gasteiz and the Arab Foreign Ministry, together with the Bishopric of Vitoria-Gasteiz, have signed that on the 18th, and that it was definitively established on recent dates, says: "The present protocol of intentions has as its general object the inter-institutional collaboration for the development of the memorial center of the victims of March 3. To this end, the parties agree to the creation of a foundation or similar formula to promote and manage the memorial center of the victims of March 3 in the church of San Francisco de Assisi, located in the neighborhood of Zaramaga de Vitoria-Gasteiz. To this end, the Diocese of Vitoria will cede the use of the Church of San Francisco de Assisi to the foundation... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... Church of San Francisco de Assisi, located in the neighborhood of Zaramaga of Vitoria-Gasteiz. To this end, the Diocese of Vitoria will assign the use of the Church of San Francisco de Assisi to the foundation that is created for that purpose, in the terms that are available. And no, Mr. Arzuaga, it was not an act of political propaganda, like some, responding to what interests and without any knowledge of cause, they have termed. It was the end of a laborious process, an end that clears the most important unknown that blocked the project. The Memorial of March 3 has at last its headquarters, the only one that gives it true meaning, that of the Church of San Francisco. An agreement that opens us up to a new future and new objectives of making the project a reality. And, have no doubt, Mr Arzuaga, that we will count, as it could not otherwise be, on the social initiative. You have said that, there is much to be done, to be defined and to be budgeted. And now I'll read textually, and along with this... what appears in that convention. And, what, besides, I said. And, together with this firm and determined will for institutional collaboration and also a recognition of the work that has been developing the social initiative in relation to March 3, Auzolana is our motto. Auzolana, from the institutional leadership and recognition and participation of the social initiative, with these two premises. The memory of March 3 must be secured. These were my words on February 18. And these are my words and my commitment, here today, at this parliamentary seat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u153	From where you're from, from your place, with your permission. Simply, eskertu nahi difuut, Artolazabal andrea, I want to thank you for the effort and commitment you have brought us here. I understand certain vertigos that I have been able to see from some organization, some social agent, because there may be a temptation to develop a project of these, turning their backs on the victims, on associationism or on trade unions. I'm not saying there is, I'm saying there can be, right? And perhaps, in addition, it has been something that has been wanted to air from some media, I don't know with what interest. In any case, it will be more difficult to manage this with plural agreements, with broad agreements. But, in any case, I think it is the most satisfactory way, no doubt, to do so. He's telling me about a foundation or something. I understand that, in saying this, he thinks of the model of the Gernika museum. It seems to me that it is more cosmetic than real the participation there of associationism. But in any case, there are models and there are other places in the world where such projects have been made. And I think they can be put into practice in a successful way. Called to a dead man sang (...), let us give them life, let us give them memory. Pedro María, Francisco, Romualdo, José, Welcome gure bihotzean beti. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u154	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Lady Artola generous, to answer, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u155	There is no doubt, Mr Arzuaga, that the Memorial of 3 March is not going to develop behind the back of the social initiative. I don't know what legal form we're going to use. You said, there are several. We will see what makes it easier for us to move the project forward. I was talking to him about two pillars. Institutional leadership, on the one hand, that it is not in vain that we have the democratic institutions that have the will of the people. And also collaboration with the social initiative. And you have no doubt about that. Our relationship with the victims' associations and with the victims, with Memoria Gara in particular, and with the unions to which the victims belong is fluid. We're working on a permanent basis. And, for example, a button. On January 29, a meeting took place between representatives of the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz, the Foral Diputación de Álava and the Government itself, together with the Bishopric, with representatives of Memoria Gara. On behalf of our department, he went to the meeting... the most qualified representatives at the memory level, who were the vice-advisor and the director herself of Gogora. And at this working meeting Memoria Gara presented to us that project that you have shown us, that of the bases for the construction of that space of memory in the Church of San Francisco. And the talks are going to continue in a new context of work between all parties that, moreover, we have already scheduled for next week. We've done a lot of dissecting and we'll probably continue to do it. And I tell him more, señor... Mr. Arzuga, we consider it very positive response to the collaboration of the Memory Gara organization. There's a lot of business furrows right now. To demand space from the modern uses, to form a legal institution, to determine the conditions of the neglect of use, the diagnosis of the state of the building, and the necessary civil work, and, as it is logical, to define the project, and to participate in the social initiatives in the project. With discretion, as I was saying, we've been working and we're going to keep doing a lot of cooking, have no doubt, Mr. Arzuaga. And I'll tell you more. We appreciate very positively the reaction that Memoria Gara has had to the announcement of institutional collaboration. And, at this time, the lines of work are several. The liberation of spaces. And, right now, there's some beaunets there. The constitution of that legal entity, we will see what it will be. The concretion in the terms of the assignment of use of that space with the Bishopric, the diagnosis of the situation of the building. Architecturally, it has a number of shortcomings that will have to be assessed. And, among them, logically, decide which project we are going to carry out. You were talking about home. We'll see what we'll put in there. I was telling you at first, I am convinced that, above all differences, we have so many things that unite us on this issue. It unites us with a final goal, which is that Vitoria-Gasteiz and the victims of March 3rd have their memorial space. And that also unites us on the basis of principles that must underpin the project. It has to be a memory centered on people, a memory for truth, a democratic and inclusive memory, a memory conceived as living space, as an exhibition space, and also as a space for research, reflection, debate, formation and... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... a memory conceived as living space, as an exhibition space and also with a space for research, reflection, debate, training and awareness; a documentary, experiential and emotional memory; a memory, in short, that links the past, the present and the future. And I'm sure it also unites us with a common purpose, and, well, I'm sure that, in addition, you and I want to shield this project of possible instruments and manipulations. The memory of March 3 must be a memory of all, for all and for all; it must be a democratic memory, and it must be a memory for coexistence, Mr Arzuaga. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Number twenty-one point in the subject list: "Interression, the popular team of Carmélo Barrojia Barro-Ciudadanus, a member of the Cultura and the head of the Policic Department of Language, in order to reorganize in the schools." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u157	Thank you very much, President. Counselor. Counselor. Ladies and gentlemen. I am not going to expand, I am going to be very brief even if it is an inquiry because what I want is the analysis, in relation to what we have just proposed with the school sport, with the competition, with the analysis made by your department, Mr Zupiria's department, since the Sports Directorate, well, will have to plan what is going on together with other institutions, I have no doubt, and also with the situation that we are experiencing, as they are taking steps. In the sense of sports competition I refer in this case to school sport. Steps have already been taken in relation to, and also, from the beginning, in relation to professional, semi-professional sport, in relation to competition, in addition to trainings of course, steps have already been taken in relation also to federated sport, in relation to competition, logically, with trainings and their limitations. And we are in the phase of school sport without competition, with trainings, moreover, limited. And to us, well, as it will also happen to you and the department and other groups, collectives come to be interested when the competition will return as well, and the stimulation of the competition on sports practice, to school sport. That is also part of, we all know how school sports are managed and regulated, but in any case, the skills and analysis that are being done are in the central institutions where they are going to plan the measures that are going to be given in relation to this issue. Training is still limited, there is no competition in school sport. The Biziberri plan does establish the possibilities already of the resumption – in this downward trend in which we are – of the resumption of the competition as well. It is literally said "renudation of the competition, when there is a downward trend." And, then, in that sense, we have already seen that something has opened up the possibility of trainings – I still say – limited in the possibilities of improving the group, to see if it can be so, just as soon we have some news in that sense. But I would certainly like an approach or an analysis by your lordship on this subject. That is to say, school sport is very important and competition as a stimulus to school sport is also very important, as we know there is little time left, there is little time left, there is little time left for the season, but in any case, within the sport this issue is important. And, simply, for the purpose of being interested and answering the questions that make us collective involved in school sport, then, to see what consideration your department makes in relation to this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u158	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u159	Mrs. President, gentlemen, members of the legislature, Mr. Barri, good morning. I am concerned about the purpose of the Basque Government with regard to the resumption of the school sports competition in Euskadi and I reply to it. Since it could not otherwise be, the Basque Government will comply with and enforce what is prescribed by the regulations in force at all times. As you know, since the declaration of the health emergency in Euskadi, the Lehendakari and the Health Adviser have been publishing different orders and decrees to establish the rules that in each case have been necessary to deal with the transmission of the covid. And I would like to remind you that all the decisions taken by the lehendakari in these months, all of them, have been based on the recommendations and proposals put forward by the LABI technical committee. It has been and will continue to be so. And let me remind you that this technician, this technical committee, is composed of a technician from the Health Organization Planning and Evaluation Service, the coordinator of health services, the deputy directors of Public Health and Addictions, the head of the Microbiology Service of the University Hospital Donostia, the head of the Labor Health Service, the OSI of Basurto, the director of Health Innovation of Bioef, the director of Public Health and Addictions, the coordinator of the Patient Safety and Public Health Programs of Osakidetza, the director general of Osakidetza, the vice-counselor of Legal Regime of the Department of Public Governance and the vice-counselor of Health, all of them coordinated by the Secretary General of Social Transition and Agenda 2030. These are the professionals of the Basque health system who have agreed on the recommendations and proposals on which LABI and ultimately lehendakari have been taking their decisions, also in the field of school sport, with the aim of dealing with the covid and regulating the activities of all tenor that at every moment have been possible since May last year. As far as school sports are concerned, it should be borne in mind at this point that, according to Law 14/98, which regulates sports activity in our autonomous community, the institutions are the outlaws... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... in this point, according to Law 14/98, which regulates the sport activity to our autonomous community, are the outlaws the institutions competent for the normative development and the implementation of the regulations in the field of school sports, in coordination with the municipal corporations. The same law assigns to the common institutions the regulation of the general bases and principles of school sport, its sports disciplinary regime and its competitions. All the decisions decreed by the Lehendakari in the field of school sport have therefore been based, first, on the proposals made by the health technicians and, second, on the agreement of the deputies-general of Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, the highest representatives of the institutions responsible for school sport. This is the framework in which the lehendakari and the Government have been taking decisions. The first major decision was imposed in mid-March 2020, when, through a royal decree, the President of the Government of Spain established the state of alarm throughout the State and decreed the general and residential confinement. A situation that, for school purposes, caused the total closure of all types of activities until June. It was three months of general confinement, in which not only school sport, physical activity at all ages was also suspended and prohibited. From that moment on, a descaled process began, which was attenuating in the different restrictions. When the first state of alarm was completed, and while respecting the competences of the autonomous community, in July 2020 the Basque Government and the outlaws decided to set up the Special Commission on School Sport to deal with the COVID-19. It's July 2020. 6 July, cumulative incidence rate of 100,000 inhabitants in the last 14 days, 6. I repeat, 6 July, rate 6 over 100,000 inhabitants. At that time, we thought that the beginning of the course would normally take place in September and that the school sport could resume normally with the beginning of the school year. Following this forecast, at the end of August, and in view of the imminent opening of the classrooms, the positions responsible for the Government's sports and the deputies agreed to start the school sports season in a form of training and to delay, as a precaution, the beginning of the competition according to the evolution of the pandemic in January. And the precise protocols were established to address the different situations that might arise. These decisions were taken, as I told you, on 24 August. Incidence rate, 304 over 100,000. With the start of the school year, on 7 September the Departments of Health and Education published a document entitled Complementary Protocol of Action for Course 20-21. September 7, rate 400. It recommends not to organize extra-curricular activities until the health situation evolves following the enrolment of pupils in schools. On 2 October, fee 265, the Complementary Protocol for the Course authorizing extra-curricular activities, including school sports, was approved. 22 October, fee 418, by an order of the counselor it is determined that the trainings must be organized in groups or subgroups of six people and the suspension of the competitions is maintained. 6 November, fee 778, a lehendakari decree suspends school sport and a joint communication from the Government and the three deputies is published. 12 January, fee 326, another decree of lehendakari states that school sports training may be resumed in groups of up to six people, always the same, in all municipalities where the rate is less than 500 per 100,000 inhabitants, being suspended in those where they are above 500. January 22, fee 507, another decree of the lehendakari maintains these guidelines. 17 February, fee 404, the Committee on Culture, Euskera and Sport of this Parliament approves, with the abstention of its group, the following text: "The Parliament urges the Government, in collaboration with parliaments, municipalities, clubs and federations, to take the initiative to launch sport at school age, in bubbles and open spaces, in schools from January onwards, meeting in any case the requirements required by the epidemiological situation and drawing up criteria to be met by clubs". Today, 5 March, with the last known rate 225, the LABI will meet and the relevant decisions will be taken. Pending the meeting of the heads of the Technical Committee, they have proposed that training be allowed and that the competition for school sport be suspended. In this delicate health situation that we have experienced since the beginning of the school and sports year, Basque institutions have made every effort to ensure that people of school age can enjoy general, face-to-face education in conditions of safety and health. It's been a priority. Something that has so far been achieved in a reasonable way and without any interruption. Also, since the end of home confinement in June, there has been no restriction on physical activity for persons of school age. And at all times when it has been possible, training in school sport has been maintained. Mr. Barrio, it is the intention of the Government to do everything possible to avoid general residential confinement and so that people of school age can develop physical activity, receive face-to-face education and whenever it is possible to maintain organized school sports training. We do not know the health situation we will face in the coming months. The Bizi Berri III Plan has set out five scenarios, according to which the measures envisaged for each of them will be taken. We will continue to do so on the basis of technical reports and in agreement with the outsiders. And we will do everything in our power to ensure that the petition approved by the Commission for Culture, Euskera and Sport can be complied with in high incidence scenarios. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u160	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Barrio, your word is... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... Committee on Culture, Euskara and Sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u161	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u162	Yeah. Thank you, President. And yes, thank you, Mr. Counsellor, for your explanations and the review you have made of the management of school sport and its situation, well, and what this Parliament has approved. It was quite clear that we too, in agreement with the philosophy of the approved initiative, missed a mention of the competition. And we do this because approaches are already being made, and I say the collectives that are dedicated to these issues, in the same way that the autonomous or other professional collectives made approaches in relation to their restrictions or their impossibility of acting, as well as those who organize or move in the field of school sport, of approaches in addition to limited competition of the season. I mean, in this school year it's clear that there can't be a normal competition, there can't be normal seasons or leagues, but there has to be an ad hoc approach, right? And then, yes, we would like to know, also by referring to those who plan seasons, or plan a new competition or a new model of competition. Yeah, it's ruled out by the authorities as well as the competition in school sport before summer, isn't it? It is quite clear that this is going through school courses, and as we are getting closer to the end. But we do know if it is discarded, so for its planning effects on this issue. We already know that that also responds to what he himself... you have mentioned, and I too, the Bizi Berri Plan, when you say that: "in downward trend", where we are, right?, "valuing the competition". I mean, they're scenarios in which I ask you, they're scenarios in the Bizi Berri Plan itself. And that's why these scenarios can also be adapted to what is the sports management of your Department, in conjunction with the approach that will also be made by the Deputies, which will also be, can be consulted or called by the LABI or by the bodies that will make the decisions, right? That is to say, whether the competition is ruled out; I say again, in the area of organisation and the possibilities of organisation. They are still being valued, they are looking for formulas, not the formula of normal years but special formulas of competition, but they have to be articulated and they have to be organized and modular. And that's why, that's the interest, to know if the competition already this year is definitely ruled out or doesn't know. Because yes, we understand that Bizi Berri, fulfilling the criteria that are being given, with the theme of the decrease, the downward trend that we have all commented, in addition to vaccinations, that are every day more important and affect more people, because I believe that we are in that plan that the Basque Government itself and the Plan itself establishes. I mean, we think we need to take one more step in terms of school sport, like the others, don't we? And as far as training is concerned, steps have already been taken; there are still some to give because they are limited in certain sports disciplines, but they are in competition. For us it is very important that the school sport, that is, and the competition, are there. They are, the competition, we see it as stimulating in addition to the practice of sport, also at young ages. We see that in professional sport, in semiprofessional sport, logically in other qualities, but also in the federated sport of young people. That is, the competition has opened, and we understand that one can take a step further, of course, always in the keys of what marks the stage of school sport that goes out in the Plan Bizi Berri and the phases that respond to the situation of the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u163	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u164	Andrea President, Yellow Quarter. Well, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, along with the New Year's Town Towns, together with the Eudel, and the Spanish Government's delegation for the next few weeks and months we can move on stages with the New Year's Department of Plan III. And there are proposals according to each stage, even in the sports school. We don't know what's going to happen in every case of health. And without knowing it, it is very difficult to make propositions, and it is very difficult to say what will happen in the next few weeks and months. It is repeated several times, and so it is that in the weeks and months of health there is a great indefinable in the past, and this disease will set up a new stage and a challenge for us. And all decisions will be adapted to this state of health, and, as always, they will be based on the propositions made by professionals and technicians of health. I'll do my best, if it's possible, as I said, to promote training in the school sports field. And if you can see that it's possible to have a contest, then it'll be done. But again, it'll be health professionals because they see it that way and it's fine. It is for us, after we have made our decisions, that the decisions are made by the elders, and the president signs them, and it is for others to explain and explain the reasons. I think there's a reason why school sports tournament is hard to explain... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ... and to explain reason. I think there's a reason why the contest is waiting for you in school, and perhaps it's given in a few. Children and young children who make sports schools are not independent, their mobileness is limited, they need company and help in coming and going. And it has been shown that during all these months, when it has been possible to move, people move in groups, and certain relations happen to deal with disease, which are not the best and most orderly. And that's what worries them about health professionals. And that's why their decision is to keep them so within certain measures of training. And as far as we've seen it, it's not easy for us to compete or compression. We'll see the state of health in the next few weeks and months, until the course is over, and how to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-05.u165	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Since we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end up with the Full Union. The meeting ended at one o'clock in the afternoon and at fifty-seven.
