ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I may inform you that two lords and ladies have adopted the vote, that it is his maternal paternity. First point in theme list: Integer correction for the Public Sector bill. The discussion and the vote. He's got the word to introduce the bill. Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. 12. By filling up what was taken in the project of the legislational government, December 29, 2020, the United States Council accepted the bill of the Public Sector, and placed it in the hands of the legislature. On the 12th of March 2021, the institution, the Governor, and the Security Committee made a scene in order to reveal to the legislature the principal characteristics and targets of the bill. Today, six months later, I'm back in front of this parliamentary law for defending the project of the Public Sector. As it is now, I shall rejoice over certain accounts which seem to me essential to me. To begin with, I would like to remark the propriety of enforcing this law. Since the foundation of the Basque Administration has been specified, it has been a long time, and, as it is evident, many changes have been made since then; others in respect of society, of laws, of organization, and of technology. We have to answer these new facts and challenges if we want the public euscal sector to answer properly. The digital administration, no doubt, beyond the impulse to provide, the model of authority must continue to vary constantly, to be more open, more efficient, closer, more active, and more active. When the citizens and public services are placed in the centre, public authorities, each within the limits of its own jurisdictions, we must employ all our potentiality in order to develop our actions as best we can. I should like once to share this reflexion, to put some of the contents and landmarks received on the bill. The project defines the concept of the Basque public sector. It includes the public sectors of all Basque public administrations, the General Administration, outside administrations and local administrations. We put on the table an integral law, which we believe will be a reference law, and which will allow us to continue taking steps towards a new administrative culture. Not all the contents of the project are of common application to all administrations: the contents related to the organisation are of exclusive application to the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi and to its public sector. In fact, outside and local institutions have competence and autonomy to determine their organization. Promoting inter-administrative cooperation is key, but always from respect for each area of competence. In addressing the organization, the bill sets out four objectives: first, to establish rules and criteria for the development of processes that shape the organizational and functional structure of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community; second, to define entities that have public or private legal personality, other than the General Administration, are integrated into the public sector of the Autonomous Community; and third, to define the causes that justify the participation of the General Administration and the other public sector entities of the Autonomous Community in other entities... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... to define the causes justifying the participation of the General Administration and other public sector entities of the autonomous community in other entities, which, in accordance with the criteria laid down by law, do not acquire the status of members of that public sector as a result of such participation. Fourth and last, to establish criteria for the study and, where appropriate, to propose actions in relation to the treatment of the possible inefficiencies, overlaps and duplications of the public sector of the Basque Autonomous Community with other public sectors, and in particular in relation to the rest of the Basque public sector as well as the State public sector. On the other hand, the whole public sector of Esscal will be applicable to the following regulations. The principles received in the second chapter of the first title, which I shall hereafter develop; the principles of organisation and function; the principles of communication with the people, the rights and duties of the people, the principles of the administration, and the rights and the languages of the function of the public sector. chapter 4 of the title. In it the wager for eloquence is confirmed, and the two German official languages are considered as the language of communication, industry, and service. I want to take particular notice of the principles which are applicable to the whole of the public coast of Euscala. In the first place, several principles are defined which are to be considered at the time of action; the principle of service, the principle of legality, the consistency of principle, the efficiency of budget, financial stability, and transparent management. On the other hand, by applying the principle of cooperation between the administration and the administration, they also determine the duties which public administration has; respecting the legitimate exercise of other administrations; measuring all the public interests which are involved in the use of their own powers, and measuring the interest of managing them in other administrations; giving other administrations the information they require in their own administrations, or the complete information of any subject; other administrations require of the assistance of their prerogatives in the field of their duty, and other obligations which are derived from their obligation, as well as from their rules. The law also determines the principles of creating and modifying the public Basque sector. It shows that the administrations will form new institutions, or that they will participate in others already existing, only if the general interest cannot be exercised efficiently and efficiently by means of means of human resources, physical resources, and organizations which constitute the public sector at that time. As to the regulation of the Administration of the Esquimenia Eremia, and of the Manners of Projectal Administration, several of the rules which had hitherto been established have been taken care of. Other concepts and processes, on the other hand, are updated. For example, all things which can be produced by the art of organic and functional structures. In title 3. The constitution of the public sector of Euskal Autonomia Erdigo is regulated. It is there that they regulate the rule of the legal law of the institutions, of modifying, and of final modification. This bill strengthens the formulas for creating new management figures. At a time when society needs to limit the size of the public sector, the creation of new entities must be subject to rigorous and restrictive processes and, in addition, to public control and evaluation. All this is reflected in article 44 of the draft. A law of this Parliament or a decree of the Basque Government must be adopted for its establishment, depending on the type of entity concerned. Thus, new entities will not be created if the general interest is effectively and efficiently guaranteed with the entities we already have, and if new ones are created we should proceed if necessary to reorder those we already have. And, in addition, this control circle closes with the creation of the register of public sector entities in Euskadi. It must include the main incidences of life of entities. In order to avoid overlaps and duplication, the draft law provides for a new, interesting and useful instrument, the inter-institutional commission for the rationalization and sizing of the Basque public sector. Its composition and functions are defined in article 7: "to analyse the existence of inefficiencies, overlaps and duplications between the public sectors, especially in the public sector as a whole and the State public sector, and, where appropriate, to make proposals for action for its resolution; to prepare studies and proposals on assistance, collaboration and administrative coordination; and to prepare studies and proposals on the organization and functioning of public administrations and the public sectors that make up it". In this regard, evaluation issues are central to the bill. It is neither a law on public employment nor a law on transparency, nor a law aimed at regulating digital administration from top to bottom. This is a public sector bill, which aims to promote and consolidate the Basque model of public administrations. It does not seek radical or traumatic transformations, but to ensure progress in a process of transformation already begun. A process, moreover, aligned with the most modern paradigms of European governance, respecting the uniqueness of our Basque institutional system. I want to end my involvement with a request. Many months have elapsed since the Project of Laws has been present in the legislature, and it would be good to be able to overcome all ages and extensions of correction, to proceed before it is too late, and to maintain the new rule of the New Seatal Sector. We have a lot of challenges ahead and a brand-new law tool... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ...that the new regulation of the public eupcal sector is in effect. We have many challenges before us, and the new instrument of law will be of use in that sense. Thank you. VILLAGES: Thank you, Mrs. Garast. The Mist Group's representative has the word to defend its full correction. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Firstly, I would like to thank Mrs Garamendi for her explanation of the proposal for a law we are dealing with. I just want to make one point: you have forgotten to say that this proposal for a law in the public sector is a Vox initiative. It was quite a surprise when the Board of Spokesmen informed me that this was my party's initiative and I had to bring it to today's plenary debate, which was our initiative, you have forgotten Mrs Garamendi. If it had not been my initiative, but that of the Government, I might be able to say that since Vox we have requested the return of the project because we do not agree with it, we do not like it. But since you have told me that this bill is from Vox, I inform you that we want it to be returned directly. That's where we're at. The key in Parliament these days is to clarify whether we are discussing an amendment to a proposal or a bill from my group, from Vox, or it is a debate that comes from the government. That's what we need to know. In addition, I will be brief, because I am not very clear about the times of intervention either. Until the first hour yesterday I had only 10 minutes, so it also appears in Bulletin number 57 of the plenary session, I am not inventing it. However, I was later informed that those 10 minutes, by magic, have become 30 when the initiative has gone from government to my group. The whole amendment tabled by our group is known to all, in fact, has been moved to all the parliamentary groups, so I am not going to go into many details either. In any case, what we do have clear in Vox is that, despite this anti-democratic cord, we do not like this project. We make that very clear to you. Just as it should happen to many other groups, because this law has been in dance and without agreement since 2017. In short, we are a party that believes in Spain and we defend the concept of Spain, our fate as a small independent republic plagued by administrations, public societies and chiringuitos who, moreover, on many occasions, do the same in different ways. Yes, they do serve to be content with a good number of navels and faithful to the cause. And I will end by saying that, even if you say otherwise, I want to make it clear that this initiative is a government initiative as amended by Vox, because if, as some people claim, outside my group, I would never have reached the Basque Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u3	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Does anyone want to participate in the opposite round? [[Pause]] No. So... [[Pause]] We're going to vote for the end of the discussion and see if the bill gets back to you or not. You can vote. [[Pause]] How? How? [[Pause]] Anyone? All three? A ver, let's get the ticket out of here. Anyone else? [[Pause]] Well, there's no need to vote again because you don't turn on the light and you don't have a rhyme. Well, we'll put it on the record that your vote was no. The vote results, please? [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 69; votes given, 71; in favour 1, 5. The contrary, Abstations, 5; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u4	The vote was this. 69 voted, one vote against 65, five votes plus three votes that will be added to the Euco patriots from the group. After the vote, who wants to participate in the vote? Who wants to be a part of it? Yeah? Gallastegui? Then it's up to you. The popular Party-Ciudadans has the vote. Mr. Gordillo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Here today, on this item on the agenda, we are dealing with the debate on the amendment to the whole of which would entail the possible withdrawal by the Government of this bill from the Basque public sector. This is the third time in three different legislatures that this proposal, this same proposal with tiny variations of... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... Good. This is the third time, in three different legislatures, that this proposal, this same proposal, with small variations, i.e. almost the same text, has already been submitted to this Parliament for consideration. Three times. Since it is a text, let's say, ancient, which was conceived quite a few years ago, it is a text that responds to an obvious temporal logic and, above all, that is adapted to the legislation on administrative matters, especially on matters... in the basic aspect, to the old Law 30/92. As the counselor's team is, they know perfectly well what I'm talking about. The text that the Government had drafted in its day was a very conservative text. It is a text that it does is to transcribe a series of practices that have been carried out in the Basque public administration. Which may be fine to a certain extent. But, above all, it is a continuum of many inertias and a configuration of the certainly very traditional public administration. This is despite all the declarations that the Government usually does in the sense that it is a law that will modernize the administration, etc. But the truth is that, by analyzing the text, this conclusion does not come to light at all. No relevant innovation is incorporated. As could be a statute of directors of the Basque public sector, for example; an agency for recruitment and selection of public administration managers, a basic legal regime of what would be executive agencies or a genuine system of public policy evaluation. And not a self-assessment system, which includes this law, no. The project has been submitted, rather, it was submitted in its day to many opinions, some of 2015, but there is one that is very important, which is that of the Basque Competition Authority, which would have resulted of great interest in the impact on the economy that the Basque public sector can have. As most of the experts who were called in the committee showed, the fact is that this law does not bring anything new, it lacks ambition, it has shortcomings and the text is outdated. That is why there is no lack of reason for Mrs Martínez's text to pass on to the Government the need for a major reform. The point is that our group has opted here, instead of also submitting an amendment to the whole or supporting it, we have decided... Since this is the third time that the Government has presented the same text, it has no intention of changing anything. With this, we have chosen to practically rebuild the norm. We've opted for this. And besides, we haven't been the only group. Our group has tabled 64 amendments, 70 have tabled another, more or less; some forty-six others. In total there are 180 amendments. I believe that this is quite relevant and, above all, I believe that this should make the Government reflect on the type of text it has brought us. The amendments that we have tabled are true that they represent in practice an amendment to the whole, which we will discuss in committee. There are three types of amendments, which I am making here to the adviser and her team, which would be: first, a group of important amendments on the technical legal quality of the text, which would help to improve, above all, legal certainty, which is said to be one of the objectives of the law; there are others on specific issues, such as the language of the dossier, transparency, etc. and, finally, there is a set of measures which do indeed seek to modernise the Basque public administration. I insist that it is very important that we have, as modern European administrations count, a statute for public sector managers. It would be very important for us to have an independent recruitment and selection agency from the Basque public sector. It would be very important, and it would be very modernizing, if executive agencies were set up by the Government to carry out certain tasks, which could be automatically dissolved at the time, and with some flexibility to manage public services. And, above all, the recruitment system has one feature, we have introduced an equally important feature in the law, which would be the need for the appointments of senior government officials, removing those of the councillors of course, because it goes through, at least, a prior appearance in the relevant commission, as is done in the modern administrations. Therefore, and with this I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, the public administration must be an instrument that facilitates the life of the citizen, it must not be a self-referential entity. And, above all, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we must be ambitious and try to really adopt in this Parliament a rule that modernises the public administrations of Euskadi. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u6	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Mrs. Galástegui, Basque Socialists, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u7	Yeah. Thank you, President. Good. Ladies and gentlemen. Good morning. Egun where you're going. Telegraphically. From the Socialist Group we insist on the necessity and importance of this law. A law of the Basque public sector which, as the adviser has already said, gives clarification to the entire public administration, which comes to order all the agencies and instrumental entities of all the administrations, and this with mechanisms of evaluation and rationalization, in order to avoid duplication and inefficiencies. That it is going to be a capital law to organize all that legislation that structures the Basque public sector, in order to reduce dysfunctions and contradictions that, in fact, generates the current normative dispersion. The main objectives of the Act are simplification and effectiveness. And it comes to regulate, in an orderly and cohesive way, all the administrations and their instrumental entities, as I say, that at the different levels of our institutional framework are the instruments for implementing public policies of public services. The law regulates its functioning, its obligations. The competences of each public body are defined. There is, of course, coherence and cooperation in the organisation and operation of our public network, as I say. And also, very important, regulates the control and registration procedures of each of them. This rule affects the three levels, as I say, and all the entities that depend on them. And it will, of course, be key to tackling the modernization of public administrations and all the bodies that interact with them. I am talking, for example, about concerted educational and health facilities or private bodies that receive more than 40% of their funding from the public sector. It is about better organisation and it is also about following each of the euro that citizens leave in the hands of the administrations, through their taxes, until that euro returns to the citizen himself either in the form of services or any other type of benefits. There are also forms of attention to citizens and their participation. Because if there is one thing that the pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, has highlighted is that there are some demands that the discourse on good governance for a long time came... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... because if there is one thing that the pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, has highlighted, is that there are some demands that the discourse on good governance for a long time that has been manifesting, I am talking about cooperation, I am talking about involvement in networks of collective action, in multilevel decision-making spaces, among others, and it is ultimately about maintaining confidence in the public thing from a new administrative culture that is the one that demands the present times and citizenship. Furthermore, as the Counsellor had already said, full freedom was guaranteed to persons to use any of the official languages they wished in their relationship with the Administration. And it is progressing in the normalization of the use of euskera as a working language in the public sector, which would take into account the specificities of each post. An important advance in e-government is also being sought. It is also necessary to point out the needs faced by COVID-19, which has indeed had an important accelerating effect on digitalisation, both in the public sector and in the private sector, but in which, as we all know, much remains to be done. To this end, the law aims to promote, guarantee and match the use of electronic means to channel the participation of citizens and companies in administrative activity, promoting proximity and interoperability. And finally I'm finishing, the emphasis is on the management evaluation procedures in an important way. In short, ladies and gentlemen, efficiency, efficiency and in accordance with the current principles of governance. We therefore insist, from the Socialist Group, that we continue to maintain the need for a law like this, that I must remember that it is born with an exit advantage and that it incorporates many proposals from all the parliamentary groups derived from those... of the vicissitudes that became in that failed project of 2015, not 2017, because we have carried since 2015 with this law. So now it's time to approach calmly and quickly too, because, as I say, there are many built-in contributions. A debate on amendments that I hope will be enriching and that we will also have as soon as possible a new necessary law that will order the entire Basque public sector. I'm sure we can make a lot of deals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Second point on the subject list: "The full correction of the bill presented to the bill of law to allow Euna Autonomy as a private University of the Eunalia Eri." Discipline and final vote. "Madech's representative has the word to defend the bill." Mr. Bilar is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u9	Thank you, Mrs. President, Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. This time, I'd like to introduce this Chamber of Secrets to accept the Euneiz University as a private university in the Euneca Autonomy Erdi. The 137th and 86th Rule of the Basque Act. II. Posterize the articles according to what they say. As you know, this bill was sent to this Chamber on March 23rd, 2021 after accepting the Basque Council at the meeting on March 16th in March 2021. The question would be what the purpose and description of the law are. And that's what I'll try short or short. I'd like to introduce you to my explanation of this preliminary legislation. It is the purpose of the law under which the whole correction is directed to the discussion of the law to confess private college and regulate certain general aspects received in the articles. The pre-law project has a preface, 10 articles, and two last regulations. As the detail of the rule is already in your hands, I would like to point out several points. Preface, the framework of the state of initiative and the Eunomia Eroric regulations is mentioned, and the demand made to confess the private University of Eune, which is to be placed in the Eune. 2018 S.A., the anonymous society of only one person, the Eune, the Autonomy of Basque Autonomy, is also explained. First of the projected rule. In the article, Eustiz 2018 S.A. is acknowledged as a private university, under the name of Euneiz University. This university will be established in the EstM, and the laws which acknowledge the university, the rules of arrangement and function, which are to be approved by the Eucommy, and which will expressly admit that the foundation of the activity of the university is a academic freedom, and the regulations of the university will be regulated. Article 2, initialled as a structure, refers to the structural units in which the university is organized, which will initially have the teaching centres of the Faculty of Health Sciences and the Faculty of New Interactive Technologies, which will be responsible for the administrative management and organization of the teaching leading to the obtaining of the official degrees of degree and postgraduate that it indicates. Article 3 lays down the general rules concerning the authorization for the operation of the university, which must be granted by decree of the Basque Government once the relevant checks have been carried out, in particular in the areas mentioned. It also provides for the possibility of authorizing, on a proposal from the university, the progressive implementation of the courses of the corresponding curricula. Article 4 regulates the requirements of access to the university, for which... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... the courses of the relevant curricula. Article 4 regulates the requirements for access to the university, for which reference is made to the rules in force in this field. According to the period of the university and the functionation of the centres in article 5, the students who have begun their studies will have to work at least in the time of their normal academic profit. 6. The Article is about the guarantee to be offered by the Universities, to have the proper means of acting properly. And they're setting up and developing them at the end of the Esquimic University System. And the one who puts the university permit to go on for the purpose prescribed by the rule. 7. In the article, the observation of the university is regulated by the rule, and the other faculties of the upper inspection and state's jurisdiction, which will be made by the Decoration Department, which has a right to the Universities, in obedience to the rules to be applied, and the obligations granted. 8. The title of the article is the modification or neglect of it. And it's just there that the M. M. M. M. M. M. or M. This information, however, must be given before all these enterprises are executed. Article 9, entitled "Memory of activities", provides for the university's obligation to draw up annually a report on the teaching and research activities carried out in it, which will be made available to the Basque Parliament, the Department of the Basque Government responsible for universities and the Basque Council of Universities. Article 10, "Assessment of activities", provides for the submission of the university to the evaluation of its activities by UNIBASQ, in accordance with the regulatory standard of that Quality Agency. In the final part of the rule, the final provisions provide for the first, the authorization of the person in charge of the department responsible for universities to issue the precise provisions for implementing the provisions of the proposed law; and the second, the entry into force of the rule on the day following its publication in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country. As for the impulse and the transfer of the bill before the law, I should like to mention this point in order to prepare the law which we are about to discuss in this Chamber today. During the stage of prevarication, the demands of the 10/2003 law of December 22 on the procedure of making general regulations must in fact correspond with the nature of the case regulation. In addition, in the case before us, we are faced with a unique law of recognition of a private university subject to specific regulations in force during the processing period, which establishes the formal requirements for such recognition. In this Illus, the 16th article of December 3/79 Organan law on the State of the Basque Country has been set: Applicated in the first supplementary regulations of the constitution, the jurisdiction of the Euscal Autonomia Errigo is, in all its length, in all degrees and degrees, in all fashions and specialities. 27. The article of the Constitution, and the organic laws of its development, first 34. Partes, which give the State the Articles, and the preponderance necessary for the execution and preservation of them. On account of the definition of February 25/2004 of the Euscal University System, all the Universities which constitute the Esscal University System, both public and not public, aid Eascal society in the development of economy, science, and culture, and acquire cohesion and welfare of citizens, always in the course of a more just and more solid society. In like manner, by this law, the Universities, which constitute the Esscal University System, ought to promote the value of education and social justice over the respect of human rights. They are obliged to strengthen the undertakings which are the proprieties of common instruction, and to assist them in transmit the values which belong to human dignity and to the solidarity of all nations and culture, that is to say, the values which are now so important. On the other hand, the university of Esscal will be a defense to the estates of euscal culture, study, and promotion in general, and especially to the eucalyptus. The law also imposes rights and duties for non- Publique Universities, which contribute to improve the quality of the whole Esscal University system. 61. according to the article, the Basque Act, belongs to no one but to accept private Universities, and, if it be so, to deprive them of it. In addition, Law 3/2004 of 25 February of the Basque University System provides, in its Title 8. Article 108, that any natural or legal person may promote the recognition of non-public universities, without any limitations or prohibitions other than the... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... 108 that any natural or legal person may promote the recognition of non-public universities, without limitations or prohibitions other than those laid down in the basic legislation of universities. In addition, article 109 of the Act provides that recognition of private universities shall be effected by law. Since the adoption of this law, the Basque Government has promoted, through its university policy, the articulation and cohesion of the Basque university system, by defining development objectives aimed at all the universities that make up it. The 4/2007 Organic Laws of April 12th, on December 21, December 21, and on April 12, carefully regulates the fundamental principles of the constitution of the liberty of the schools to be produced, both for the consent of public and private Universities, for function and legal discipline. On the other hand, the Organic law of December 21, December 6/200th, on the University of the university, is concerned with the duties already required for private Universities. This law, by the fourth article of Title I, shall be admitted to private Universities by the Law of the Law. The Decree, 420/20.15 King of May, both the university and the university Center created, admitted, and authorized, and cultivated this order. This Decree King, among other things, established these sects which private Universities ought to fulfil, and the number of the centres, and the least demands in the field of material demands and workmen. At this point, we cannot avoid the fact that the Decret 420/2015 King has been replaced by Decreted by the university and the university centers, confessed and authorized by the center of the university, and the Decreated King of 27 July, 640/2021. We know they're working in this House of Parliament preparing partial corrections to the new requests received in that rule. As the end of the process of tramitation of the preceding bill of law, EukMOY will inform you that in the text of the project sent to the legislature on the 23rd of March 2021, the Basque Advocacy Committee has already been considered at the annual meeting of November 1820. I mean, therefore, to conclude that this rule has been made a Tramitation according to the functions of the rights and regulations of our government, and according to the regulation established in transmitation. It is proper for this Chamber to make proper improvements, to examine the rule, and, if it can, before it can be admitted. As I have just indicated to you in Basque, I would like to conclude my speech by pointing out to you that the processing of this rule has been carried out in accordance with the powers and functions of normative impulse attributed to our government, and under the normative reality in force during the processing period, and it is up to this House to make any improvements it deems appropriate to incorporate, and prior to its consideration and approval in its case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u10	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Together, Podemos-Nozzer is the representative of the Animate team, in order to favor his full-correction. Does someone else want to join us on the side shift? No, I don't mean Martíni, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u11	Good morning. Thank you, ma'am. Today, in front of the bill of law to confess Eune as a private university, we discuss our full correction. But if, at the same time, you want to be treated in a general way or in a oblique way, then we discuss what kind of university we want to promote. We're talking about a college set up in the high school for profit. Should we put Eune in our Eescal University System? That's our question, and we're discussing it. On our side, we've tried this whole process, and we've tried to look at it in an objective way, using the established regulation, and the information we had at the moment. That is to say, a new decree of the state, including the king's decree, and the State of Guernica, and the law of the university. It is a bill – as we say in the amendment – that neither the spirit nor the letter of the bill can be changed, because it is a bill presented legitimately, as has been explained, by a private individual; by a promoter. We cannot improve it or make it worse in this respect, but we can critically analyse whether it complies with the existing legislation, as has been said at the moment, and the definition and objectives also set in the Basque university system. Oh yes, so many parliamentarians in Nahia gaurko osoko zuzenketarekin. With rigor, with seriousness, without a prioriism, as has been said in this rostrum on other occasions. We have to say that, also in the process, this Parliament has not had all the information on this draft law until July. We, and other parliamentary groups, had asked for all the information that the Department of Education of the Basque Government had on this university project. And it was not until July 2021, outside the ordinary period of amendments, when we received all the information. It's in the file of the law, it's in the file of parliamentarians, we've asked for that information. I asked for it, for example, on 14 October 2020, and, until July 2021, we have not received all the information. I mean... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... I asked for it, for example, on 14 October 2020, and until July 2021 we have not received all the information. I mean, if we hadn't asked for an extension of the deadline for amendments, this Parliament could have passed or repealed a law, or not passed a law, sorry, without all the information. Bigarrenik, lege-proiektu honek jasotako txosten eta of buruz hitz egingo dugu. One of the reports that we have highlighted, and of the most important ones to see if a university or a university project meets the requirements to be a university or not, of course, is that of UNIBASQ, the Quality Agency of the Basque University System. A report based on analysis and objective criteria. A report that was made on April 4, 2019, using, in this case yes, as the basis of the legislation in force at that time, Royal Decree 420/2015. Well, that Royal Decree, which has a lower level of requirement than it is in force at this time of law processing, that report, using that Royal Decree Law, was unfavorable. He analyzed six dimensions of this university project and in four of them he said it did not comply; not Elkarrekin Podemos, UNIBASQ is the one making this report. It met neither in the minimum academic offer, nor in the research programming, nor in the research teaching staff, nor in the facilities and the means and resources. It did have two other dimensions, but the conclusion of that report is clear. UNIBASQ, Euskal Unibertsitate System Kalitate Agentziak berak bayeztatu digu, guri eta Parlamentuari, Euneizek ez dituela nahitaez bete beharreko baldintzak betetzen unibertsitate bezala onartu ahal izaziko. We could say, by honoring the truth, I might not say this that I'm going to say right now. In July we received that information, and in a first analysis we could say that some of the shortcomings identified in that report have been resolved, they could. We do not have that ability to certify it, we would have to do it again UNIBASQ. With regard to the opinion of the universities of the Basque university system. There are three: UPV/EHU, Deusto and Mondragon; only Deusto does not oppose the processing and does not claim or submit any report contrary to the recognition of this project as a university. UPV/EHU, gure unibertsitate publikoa, gure unibertsitate systemren ardatza dena, era bai UNIBASQ komentatu edo esaten zuen puntu batzuk apart, beasts batzuk ere komentatzen called txostenean beer. It disassembles with Lanbide data, not with its own data, but with Lanbide data, the supposed demand for the degrees that Euneiz would offer. And, moreover, he proposes – and we agree with that proposal and I think that all the parliamentary groups should be – that if that demand really existed, the UPV/EHU with more public funding could assume it with complete peace of mind, with guarantees of quality and excellence, like all that the UPV/EHU does. And, moreover, it is a matter of educational planning, which we already know how important it is, and for that there is also the rules that the Basque Government makes, and in this regard we could strengthen the UPV/EHU. Both UPV/EHU and Mondragon warn of an element that seems central to us when discussing this university project, it is the entry of profit into the recognized higher education in Euskadi. It is a debate that seems to us to be central. It says the University of Mondragon in its allegations: "The great change that this project entails or can entail in the composition, in the objectives, in the strategies and the functioning of the Basque university system, which, moreover, is made from an initiative totally alien to the experience, which has no experience, forgiveness, in the Basque Country in higher education, which affects the structure and university model that has developed in Euskadi, which is contained in the Law of the Basque University System and which has developed in Euskadi for many years. A model – I continue to quote – in this case, which is often established as a reference model throughout the Spanish State because of the consistency and orientation and planning of the three universities, the public and the two universities of social initiative". I believe that these contributions from the Euscal University System are to be taken into account. In the short space of time in which we were at the law paper, we had several appearances. Orokorrean, esan dezakegu, éta laburbilduz, agerraldi gehienetan ha beast gauza beat her, bath unibertsitate beat ez of laburbildu dezakegu. Baina hitz batzuk nahi nituzke hemen mahaigaineratu. For example, Vera Sacristán, coordinator of the Observatory of Universities, said to define the Euneiz project that Euneiz is a project that is a calcum of centers attached to Catalan universities, which are the same degrees, and that, well, they themselves in memory recognize it this way. And that these centers attached to universities that are not constituted universities, do not offer, for example, teaching or research programs, and that this is a great handful for the development and creation of the Euneiz. Jurjo Torres, professor of Pedagogy and Didactics at the University of A Coruña, stated: "I thought that the university label is completely excessive for a project that is very reductionist in terms of areas and areas of knowledge that are to be imparted and on which it is to be investigated, or supposedly investigated, and to focus teaching on generating knowledge. Rather," he said, "I think we are facing a higher vocational training centre, a higher institute, or—he came to say—that in the Anglo-Saxon world this was known as a college." Enrique Díaz, professor at the University of León, introduced a debate that seems to us to be fundamental, which has also been done in these allegations by UPV/EHU and Mondragon, which is the commercialization of higher education. And, in this case, the official recognition by the Basque Government and, if this law is passed, by the Basque Parliament, for profit in the Basque university system. And he warned about the bubble that was being created in that sense throughout the Spanish State. That we are not strangers in Euskadi, but we have been shielded because no project of these characteristics has been recognized, which, for example, has happened, as is commonly said, as mushrooms in the Community of Madrid in recent years. We also had four unions in the show, Steilas, Comissions Obras, LA and LA. All the unions were calling and accusing him of the systematic pre-ractory that occurs in these projects, and above all of the research in the world. Along with that, and one of the... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... The systematic pre-ractization that takes place in the world, especially in the research. Alongside this, and one of the fundamental issues alongside profit-making, but which is intrinsically related, is a complaint that the unions made and that we and we share. We are talking about the recognition of a private, profit-making university, which, according to the promoters themselves in this House, in this Parliament, will receive an average of €8,000 per year in these courses. Therefore, the question is who is going to pay 8,000 euros for a degree in the city of Gasteiz, in the Basque Country, for what we are going to recognize this university that is going to pay, that is going to charge these scandalous tuitions at this time, being able to have this same offer in the public system at affordable and equitable prices for everyone. And besides, the unions too talked about this, we need to discuss the role of the eucaine project in Euniz. There's no light plan, well, there's no planning, and that's what the promoters reported on the committee. There is no planning on the use of the eucalyptus in preparation for any light plan. It doesn't seem to be a small event in a project that wants to build Eukadin and put it on. And now the chief physician says it's essential, and we agree with it, but the project doesn't say anything about the Basque. Como decía, in our opinion, and this is the real discussion we have to have, is there a Eune university or not? The consequences of the apparitions refuse us, at least in our opinion. Aurreko guztiarekin batera, aurten, abuztuan, Statu mailan araudi berri bat onartu da, unibertsitateak aiortzeko baldintzak ezartzen dituen Errege Dekretua, Royal Decree 640/2021 of 27 July of Creation, recognition, authorization of universities and university centers and institutional accreditation of university centers. The legislation in force at this time of this law. It has just been said that this bill has to be dealt with on the basis of legislation in force at the time of the draft bill. We are at the time of the draft law, so this royal decree is in force for this draft law. It said, it came into force in August. The royal decree summarizes in the initial principles, in the explanatory statement, a definition that I will read even if it is long, because it seems to me fundamental to understand what is the definition of what a university system is and what is planning and what public authorities have to do, not only to let it do. It says that "The formation of future professionals, research, the transfer of knowledge, the formation of citizens, the promotion of innovation, the contribution to social, cultural, economic and territorial development and the generation of critical thinking, these functions give the ultimate meaning to a university as a multidimensional institution at the service of society as a whole. This holistic vision, which also emerged in the appearances of the current university, implies that the quality requirements of the university system guarantee adequate levels, especially in teaching and research, essential functions from which the rest of the university institutions converging." This is what the royal decree says. Article 4.1 sets out the conditions and requirements for the recognition of private universities. Recognition which is also of a constitutive nature. In this sense, we can safely say that the Euneiz project does not fit, and I will say that it does not fit at least one of the requirements and the fundamental to be recognized and considered a university, as it does not meet the minimum bid for qualifications required. Article 5.1 provides that teaching... which has to have an offer of teachings leading to the obtaining of ten official degrees, six official Master's degrees and two official doctoral programs, which does not happen in the Euneiz project. It does not conform to this royal decree, since it has a smaller academic offer, and I say again, UNIBASQ said exactly the same with the previous legislation, which was a less demanding royal decree. And we have mentioned, moreover, wanting only one of the non-compliances, which seems to us to be most evident, the one with no appeal whatsoever, but the rest, however, we think that they should be accredited by the agencies that have assigned this function, in this case, UNIBASQ and also the General Conference on University Policy of the State. It has been said in the proceedings, it has also been said today that this decree establishes a period of adaptation of five years in its first transitional provision for universities and university centres that are authorized or established or that are recognized, but not authorized, it is not the case, we are dealing with a bill that is in process, it has passed, and in addition we with the UNIBASQ report and with all the internal reports of the Government have never made any appeal, it has complied with the legislation what it had to do, but this university is neither created nor recognized nor authorized, it is a university bill and we think that at this time what it has to do, if it wants to move forward, is to adapt to this royal decree and submit another memorandum, and the Government to carry out another bill. And we do it, it's not the first day we say it, it can't be blamed on us, it's not stubborn, it's not even a defense of higher education to generate profit, it's also, it's that we've been warning months, that it was known, that the Basque Government knew it directly from the minister and the Ministry of Universities, that the parliamentary groups that support the government knew it, that the rest of parliamentary groups also knew that this royal decree was going to be passed this year and that it could land in the middle of the process of this bill. They knew that it was going to pass through the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers and neither the company nor the Government nor the other parliamentary groups have seen it important to warn about this, and it seems to us fundamental, because there may be later, because I regret not having followed the legislation in force at this time. Legendary apart, it was bai ereduari buruz gustukko litzaiguke hitz egitea, eta horrekin bukatzea. During this time we have heard different politicians, the promoters of the initiative, say that this project was not going to receive public money. Mr Jordi Roche, a Member of this Parliament on behalf of... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... the promoters of the initiative, say that this project was not going to receive public money. Mr Jordi Roche, appearing in this Parliament on behalf of the company, said that this project was only to be carried out with private resources, which were not to be applied for public subsidies. They have it in the whole amendment, I'm not telling them anything new. On 18 May – Mr Azpiazu is not here, but Mr Education Adviser is here – the Basque Government approved the update of the Euskadi Next programme and included a private project by the Alavés Baskonia group called Araba-Gasteiz Sport Capital. They are, if I am not mistaken, more than 60 million euros, half of them are private and the other half would be public. In addition, the money already committed by the Arab Council and the City of Gasteiz must be added to this project. I know that both the government and the promoter are trying to shut down this Araba Sport Capital project from the Euneiz project, but let me tell you something, it is a project that you have, the vast majority of promoters are the same, which is going to be developed in the same streets and squares of Araba, called Araba Spots Capital, which is being developed with a Hub development in Álava of advanced training in research and entrepreneurship in matters related to elite sport – first chance with the academic offer of the Euneiz – with health – second chance with the educational offer of the Euneiz – and with the new technologies – third chance with the educational offer that says it will have the Euneiz – and with the private public support with the participation of the Alaves and Baskonia. Three coincidences, we can believe, we can close our eyes and not see the reality that we have in front of us. This project if it is granted – and, if not, I am sure that the money will be taken out, as the Arab Council and the City of Gasteiz have done – to receive 30 million public money to finance races at 8,000 euros, to finance an International College – to see who can pay for the stay at that International College – to pay for elite sport with public money. That is why we think that those more than 30 million euros, as we have said in the amendment of the whole, could go perfectly to the University of the Basque Country, to the Araba Sports Campus and to develop, of course, a public university where all Basques and all Basques, all gasteiztarras and all gasteiztarras and not just those who can be paid grades at 8,000 euros per year. Hence we demand the return of this bill of laws, which is intended to regulate Euneiz, by not filling the law. That is why we are calling for this bill to be returned to the Government, we are calling on the House as a whole and we are calling especially on the parliamentary groups to call themselves left-wing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u12	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Does anyone want to participate in the opposite round? That's it? So, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u13	Good morning. Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. It seems to me appropriate to go against the amendment of the whole because of the absolute discrepancy in the assessment, in the wording, in the conception that the proposed group of the amendment has made in this rostrum, and through the amendment of the whole that we have all studied and analysed. Indeed, this catastrophic vision of what is private initiative, the possibilities in the educational sphere of collaboration, sharing, creating, expanding the educational or university spheres, of course, this catastrophic and limiting vision we do not share at all and we want to make it very clear at this turn against. And we do share, in this case, the Government's initiative. We share the government's initiative by bringing this bill and, above all, we share the initiative of the Eusteiz 2018 SA group as a promoter of this new, what we want and that we think is going to be a new university reality in Vitoria in Vitoria, in Álava, in the whole of Euskadi. We are faced with what is good news for Vitoria, for the Basque Country, that is very clear. This bill for the creation of the Euneiz University is, is good news. The fact that new areas and spaces are created that work for education, culture and research is always beneficial to the society in which they are framed and the object of this university is that: to work for education, for research and for certain areas of research that is in what experience, in addition to this university brings. In this case, we are talking about a new university with new degrees, new ideas and attracting students from all over, which is also important. And we are also talking about an important – and that is very significant – an important and exclusively private investment to materialize this university educational project that has also proven to be successful, to be of excellence in Catalonia, and here is the experience that also underpins the fact that we can bring here and benefit from this new university experience in Vitoria. Euneiz will become a new educational offer in new sectors, in addition to strategic sectors that are not currently in the Basque Country. The University could have added them to their degrees, but it hasn't, because it still has some planning flaw, but they haven't, and this one does propose it to us. In other words, new and strategic sectors that are not currently in the Basque Country will position Vitoria, in addition, on the international university map, which is also to be thanked in relation to an initiative, in addition, on that university map thanks to agreements with other universities that already have the promoter group and that are working, I say again, successfully and with university excellence. And it will also bring, as I said before, students from other countries. And, besides, it will create an amount... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... promoter and that are working, I say again, successfully and with university excellence. And it will also bring, as I said before, students from other countries. And it will also create a significant amount of quality employment. Which we also have to thank right now. My group, the People-Citizens Group, deeply regrets the mistrust that some other parliamentary groups, including the drafter of the whole amendment, always have with private initiative in the field of education. It is a restrictive, laminating attitude of private initiative in the field of education, in this case, which we do not share. Private expression also linked to education has enriched our teaching capacity at all levels in the Basque Country. At all levels. What are we going to say about the concerted schools, which we are talking about, but about the quality of the concerted centres, the concerted schools, which we have, the private ikastolas; the exemplary vocational training centres that we have, which they agree with the Administration, on a private initiative, that is, in that case, and there they are; or the universities that also have... they don't have... are not public, the University of Deusto, the University of Mondragon, that is, with all that experience, that has been very good for Euskadi and for us in the field of education, in the field of university. In other words, there are experiences that tell us that private initiative is also essentially right in education. Moreover, at all levels of education, collaboration with the Education Administration has worked well. The counselor will be able to say that, I suppose, much better than me. It worked really well. For the benefit of thousands and thousands of students from Euskadi and outside Euskadi. That mistrust in the private sphere is also reflected in the amendment of the whole in all its parts and in all its paragraphs. And we don't share it at all. We do not think at all, as the amendment says, that there is a lack of transparency. Everything that has been requested has been contributed. In addition, there has been a great deal of time to process this initiative. It is not like other initiatives submitted to us by the Government or groups that support the Government for a single reading and urgent action, it has had a long time. That is, if someone detected a defect in the information, they could have asked it – you did it – and it would have been handed over to him. That is, in that sense, a lack of transparency cannot be said when those issues are resolved. Lack of transparency would be for you not to receive the information you have requested. But you asked her for what you said, no. That is to say, in that sense, because I believe that part of the amendment in its entirety is disqualified. On the other hand, like every project, this has also had its walk, its walk. Every bill we see has its way. Since they're drafts, since they're drafts, since they're getting their reports, they're getting... Inadequacies or defects are being identified or are being addressed. And this project because it has had its course, it has had to overcome shortcomings – you have shown them and we have also known them because there have been appearances in that sense – but that series of deficiencies have been overcome, to finally get the approval, to get the favorable pronouncement of UNIBASQ, which is the Quality Agency of the Basque Educational System. His representative was also heard in this committee, I mean, the approach and position of UNIBASQ was in favour of the thrust of this bill, the thrust of this new university. And, in that sense, there are the issues. And, moreover, after all that, after UNIBASQ and after the new normative news that has been held on this subject, for this has also been appreciated by the Government, as we have seen in the presentation of the project that has been made by the Councillor, has continued with its processing and has not yet withdrawn it. This confirms that the project therefore complies with what is good, because the COJUA and with what the legal offices of the Government understand to be appropriate. So there's a chance. Necessity, we understand that too. But opportunity, at least, in the bill. In addition, the amendments tabled by the groups supporting the Government certify that some technical changes are necessary, but nothing more. These are technical changes, indeed, to adapt to some recently approved and well-established policy needs, and which are to be installed, of course, in what are going to be requirements of this new university, requirements already installed in this bill. On the other hand, it is being talked about as a disqualifying and misused concept of profit-making. Something that, Mr. Martinez, is not. Since what is appropriate, moreover, at this time, and what has to give satisfaction and credibility to the project is what they are going to do, which is to make a series of millionaire investments in Vitoria in connection with the implementation of this project. Million-dollar investments to generate structures, to generate organization, to generate employment, to start in the first place, but also to develop and consolidate a university project. Works, contracts, organization, services. I mean, that's what's going to happen now: a very important investment. And then, the university, as a university that is, will be subject to the postulates, to the laws, to the requirements of any university in relation to what its economic activity is, to any university. You won't be able to function like a merchant. It'll certainly have to work like a college. So let's face it. You don't have to talk so lightly. You did so and, unfortunately, the rector of the University of the Basque Country at the Education Commission did so in connection with profit-making as a disqualifier of the new university. And it's not like that. You know it's not like that. If it is a university, it will have to meet the economic requirements of the universities. And I think there's a lot to be serious about. And, in that sense, we hope that the course of the university, which we will certainly support... We have not tabled any amendments because we did want the process to be swift, to be adopted as soon as possible, so that the university could get started as soon as possible, because until the law was passed, it cannot do so. But well, in any case, we hope that the successful journey for the reinvestment of what that university achieves, the reinvestment in the very development of a project as important as this, as it was in his day Deusto or... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... that university obtains the reinvestment in the development itself of a project as important as this, as it was in its day Deusto or Mondragon, which also had its beginnings. And its beginnings I suppose with its difficulties. And they also had to invest, and they also had to apply money, then consolidate and reinvest and develop the university project. And what is clear and in what cannot be mistrusted, as the amendment of the whole does, is that this university project is also based on an educational experience of another autonomous community. That's good. An educational experience in an autonomous community. So you can't be suspicious of that. In the end, trust... But it is true that what is most distrustful is a business reality, a business reality. And that is also not good, because it is a very anchored business reality in Álava, that is, sustained Álava, that is, it is intimately connected to society. The business reality where this university is founded, intimately, the companies and societies that make up this promoter entity are intimately in the heart of Vitoria and Álava and the Basque Country. In that sense, it is a further guarantee that there will be seriousness, that there will be sufficiency, that there will be commitment to the development of this university. It's another guarantee of trust. And it is clear that progress is being made in new degrees. We talked about sport, health, new technologies, artificial intelligence. We are talking about concepts in which we move every day, and in the professional sphere too, very developed. That is, I believe that they are important subjects and that they also justify a specialized university. One cannot come to disqualify, that this is not a university, that this is a vocational training center... This is going to be a university because it meets the requirements for it, and it will prove it. And, of course, it should also be remembered when we talked about tuition, that also the promoter, who appeared, talked about tuition, but also talked about a system and a scholarship policy in relation to the university. That is to say, in that sense, you say everything too, because also, in that sense, those issues were discussed. Well, these are the issues that make us, of course, not in favour of the whole amendment at all. We'll vote against it. And what we want is for the Government, too, once the law is passed, to work together as far as it can, which is not going to be economic, but to work together in the educational field to make this university a part of it, to enlarge even further the Basque university system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u14	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, the representative of the Podemos-Nozzer Group, Mr Martínez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u15	Thank you. First of all, I thank Mr Carmelo Barrio for his statement, and I believe that this is the way to do the opposition debate on an amendment of the whole. Furthermore, I believe that he has made a great defense of his postulates and a very coherent defense of the postulates, and precisely for the contrary reasons that Mr Barrio has cited, we are opposed to the processing of the parliamentary draft. And far from catastrophes, quite the opposite. We and we could not say anything, and we would not be saying anything if this centre were to be set up in Araba, as it says that most of the experts who have passed through this Parliament would be more appropriate, as the UNIBASQ report concludes, and as we also see in the current legislation, that is, as centres attached to another university. We are not talking now that there is no private university, that this is another debate, and perhaps we would discuss that model, but whether this meets the requirements for being a university or not. Obviously, this is your model. Here you will recognize one. You, in Madrid, in recent years have recognized 13 private universities, which were institutes of higher education, that no one is denying the quality of that training. I think... Just like the full one, all this information isn't... But if we have heard the appearances at any time from our parliamentary group, we have got into it. We're saying he doesn't qualify for college. It can be something else, of higher education and quality. No one's saying anything. The step of recognizing a university that can issue official degrees on its own is a step that has to be taken into account in the current legislation and the objectives we have in the Basque university system. I am fundamentally surprised by the majority party of the Government that it does not comply with the current legislation that we have a defined Basque university system, that it has planning, that it has objectives, that it has a territorial, social, economic root, like the one you cited, that it could have this university, that it does not have it. You were talking about the universities of Catalonia. But there are three centers attached to another university in Catalonia. We're not talking about the same thing. And I know it's very difficult for people who aren't on top of college politics to shut down. We're talking about them opening up as seconded centers. Of course. No one denies it. And you were talking about the offer, sports science is studied, with great prestige, besides, with a powerful Arab campus that we could strengthen the UPV-EHU. Physiotherapy is studied in UPV-EHU. And the issue of video games and new technologies, the three universities are working on related issues. And, in addition, the UPV report itself already said that in Bilbao this was being offered through a private university to our Basque university system, but present here. That's what we're saying. Man, of course, you said, "You're a catastrophe and everything that smells private, so don't..." No, no, We... there are two private non-profit universities in Euskadi, which I know of the concerted centers and the Ikastolas are non-profit centers. Here we are introducing profit into the educational system, the educational system with recognition, and we are introducing profit into higher education. It has nothing to do with it. I do not think we do any good if we mix these debates. The information, twice, I asked for in October, and later all the information that was in the hands of the Department of Education. I know that you defend the attitude and all the work of the government, because you agree with the project. If not, I would certainly agree with me, because once in a question you asked for all the information, you also did not pass all the information, which is the one that came in July. I'm not going to convince him, but I think... And all I ask is that you understand the meaning... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ...all the information, which is the one that came in July. I'm not going to convince him, but I think... And all I ask is that you understand the meaning of our rejection of the handling of this bill, because the bill does not meet the fundamental requirements for being a university. And I wish, I wish I could fulfill them, and I wish, I wish it would go well, because if it is not going to be a failure that, in some way, we are also going to be participants in this Parliament, the government and the whole of Basque and Alavesa society. And at no time – this did I mean it – have we disqualified the project. We have analysed the draft on the basis of existing legislation; that is what we have done, without any kind of a prioriism. I have already said that I could have focused only on the last part, on the model of higher education, and we have focused on legislation and what is or is no longer being done. Therefore, I insist again. In defense of a model of higher education, of quality, centered and rooted in the territory, in this case in Euskadi, and alien to models that are a catastrophe, as of the community of Madrid, I believe that this project has to be returned to the Government. Thank you. The president said, "Thanks, Martínez." Erantzuteko, Yellow Quarter, Yellow Popular-Citizens, Hitza Zurea. Baroja neighbourhood jaunak: Yes. Thank you, President; from the seat, with your permission, very briefly. And we're not gonna... It means that Mr Martínez has reiterated again the arguments of the first part of the explanatory statement to the whole of the amendment. Well, there they are; I am not going to repeat what I have done in defence of necessity, and sharing with the government their initiative. Yo, you asked me to understand something. Well, I, yeah, what I understand is the rejection of your group. I understand, but I understand it for its ideological reasons, don't I?, and not for what I understand, that it is to continue to advance in public-private collaboration at all levels in this society. I think it magnifies it, the fact of a well-oiled machinery, that the public and the private comply with the laws, but that they develop wealth, develop jobs. In this case, they develop new degrees or new fields of education, such as university. And, of course, well-guarded by the Administration in what is a challenge, a challenge, and also a commitment and a responsibility to educate young people in their university stage. And then, logically, for the administration and the university system, and the agencies. And they will have to be, of course, vigilant and knowing. But, at this moment, what there are commitments to congratulate, to congratulate us all for this possibility of investment, for this possibility of magnifying – as I said before – the Basque university space, which is what we understand will be done by the University of Euneiz. Muchas gracias. Presidents: Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Discussion... [[Microphone Off spoke]] ... I wonder if the bill comes back or not. [[Pause]] Like I said, we're gonna vote for the bill to come back or not to the bill of law. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the conference, 70; 72; the supporters of 6; the contrary, 45; abstainments, 21. white, 0., Presidents will not return the bill of law to the government. After that, we'll go to a vote. Myst, is Mrs Martínnez going to take the word?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Well, very briefly, to say that in Vox we voted no, because we advocate that the private initiative has already chosen Vitoria for the creation of a university. To expand the offer of university education, not only for Basque society, but also for anyone who wants to study among us. We understand that we will always defend legal and fair competition between public and private universities. We can have developed here all its artillery, that in which private initiative is bad and the public is synonymous with growth, equality and justice, and this is not real. We understand that with this they seek absolute control for the enrichment of a few and the submission of the majority, without opportunities, without diversity and without competition, something in which we are totally against. Therefore, welcome be Euneiz. Welcome the companies and entities that are behind an initiative similar to many others, which is also successful in the European Union. Welcome to a university that generates more wealth in Vitoria, in Álava and, therefore, in the Basque Country. Now all we have to trust is that Euneiz has sufficient time to adapt its training offer to the demands of the new university decree, and that the administrations also comply with the commitment to support this concrete initiative with the funds already promised. Only, to say that well-being, gentlemen of Podemos, is neither public nor private... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... with the commitment to support this concrete initiative with the funds already pledged. Only to say that the welfare, gentlemen of Podemos, is neither public nor private, is simply the collaboration between the public and the private.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u17	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u18	Yes, very briefly, trying to clear up and avoid what in many cases can be considered simple political motivations. I believe that here we are analysing a draft law in which it is true that there were positions found by the various participants in the proceedings and in the proper appearances that took place. They were also shown by our group that those observations that might be corrected should be corrected. And I myself put to the representatives of Euneiz that they had doubts with the current legislation in the Basque Country on the fulfilment of all the objectives and that, in any case, the foreseeable modification of the state regulations, of the decree already published by universities, would make it impossible, if there were no changes, that the approval of legality could be given to that project. Why have we voted against the return of this project? Because we understand that a space is now being opened so that all the provisions, requirements and conditions that the new state legislation establishes can be accommodated in order to carry out the necessary adaptations by the current bill. That is why we found it more interesting to give Parliament a seat, which is what we wanted to do today by voting against its return. And then, of course, we will also be very demanding with the changes that will be made in this respect. With the Nationalists and Socialists group, we have tabled a series of amendments, which are the necessary steps to make the relevant legal adjustments that the new legislation of a state nature establishes, and can implement, if they are implemented, the implementation of this university project. Our intention has been only that, regardless of the political assessments that each one of us may think can be made of whether we think it is better, worse or wrong that it is a private initiative to put this matter on the table. I don't think that was the role we had to play today. A draft law has been submitted by the Government, there is the possibility, no, of the obligation to adapt this draft law to the new provisions of a State nature. And so, what we've done is just give them the chance that this can be done. And, therefore, it will now be up to the promoter of this project whether or not they are able to comply with the legislation that is currently in force.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u19	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Gather the representative of the EH team, Mr. Arrese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u20	Thank you, Chief. Good morning, everyone. The Basque Country doesn't match the Euneiz University Project in that way. He doesn't agree, especially because he's a private project he's planning to win. That a private entity wants to create its own project? That this project conforms to law and regulations? Even if it's private, in order to make a contribution to our people, you think it's meant to be made? All right, let's get it settled. We don't have any pegas on it. But if it's a private project with clear plans to win, don't get any public scholarships. That's our opinion. In order that he may not receive any public money, we introduced to this pre-law four partial corrections. To-day, PodemusItareerda Unidea has brought us full correction, and this is a subject of discussion, and we do not share in the whole of it. Although we are essentially united with the intention of the whole correction and the will, we believe that its characteristic view is very much to the ministration of Madrid, which we do not share. That's why it was our vote. We have collected the Basque Country, and have expressed it in the opening of academic studies that have been made, we declare protection to the university schools which constitute the Esscal University. Each of us, though we know his qualities and peculiarities, has a long-year-long course in ours, we believe that they contribute to this people, and we believe that each of them works in its own sphere. Whether we like it or not, more or less, human values, cooperative instincts and public responsibilities are the principal goals of the university which now constitute the euscal University system. Anyway, the Basque Country wants to make it clear that we're doing a very questionless decoration on behalf of the Basque Country University for UUPV/EHU. We introduced EH collect four partial corrections to the law Eune, because it seems to us that this private university must not receive public money. We believe that in the parliamentary sede UUPV/EHUk and Mondragon alone ought to be completed by non-functional university. Public finance, therefore, ought only to be directed to unprofited colleges, that is to say, to projects that have no intention of earning public money. When we collect EH, we clearly see that the euscal university system provides at the university, all fields, and specialities, is positive and necessary, and that it requires a public impulse; which being assured that the conditions required by the law must always be fulfilled, and I repeat, that it is necessary to be an unintentioned university to receive that public money. Does our people need high school sports and medical training? Yeah. High-level video games and new technology... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... Does our people need high school sports and medical training? Yeah. Does our people need high school of video games and new technology? Yeah. We, to become a state, have a vocation. And therefore we think that in our own country all the higher learning, learning, and manner of learning are indispensable. But again, it seems to us that, in spite of the inaccurate or lack of ambition, these specialities, for example, are being pushed away from the University of the Basque Country by a red carpet through a private project. And this, in our opinion, is a mistake. At the present day, however, this law of Eune, this preliminary project, seems to us to be more obscure than light, and we have some important questions. If they don't want public help, what happens, as has been said, with 12 million and a half of what they're trying to get from Euskauda close to the close? What about the Gastine City that's gonna go with half a million euros from the Aradaba Division? Where's Eune's right of teaching for all students? What is the professional team that will be dedicated to dozence or study? Euscalal University will be part of the system, so we'll place this private Eunez University just like the three colleges of the day? All these important questions haven't got an answer yet. That's what I said. but at the same time we understand that the law which lies in the tramissible is not to be protected by it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u21	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. Eubertarians, Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Chief physician, chief of departments, members of Parliament, to all good days. To-day, we are able to dispute with each other the correction of all that Podemos has made in the community of Euneupal, in the law of accepting it as private university. And, to begin with, we must say that we are not surprised to see what has been the position of Podemos in this law, and above all what was the view of Podemos with each other in the middle of the day. We heard Mr. Martín speak of the new royal decree several times, and at last it happened. This new decree was published, and that was the last week of July. And here I am going to stop for a moment because I think it is pertinent to explain a little what has been the evolution of the last few months in explaining the why and position of our group around this amendment to the whole and also around the Euneiz bill. And it is that when the promoters of this university, from Euneiz, went to the Department of Education in November 2018 they did so, as it could not be otherwise, following the regulations that were in force and among them the Royal Decree 420/2015, which was the regulation governing the recognition of universities in this case at the state level. At that time, as I say, that legislation was in force, which was also in force almost two and a half years later, when the text of the bill referred to this House for parliamentary procedure was adopted in the Governing Council of the Basque Government on 16 March. The same rules also continue to apply in the period of attendance, in April and May, when they take place in the Committee on Education. It was not, and has been commented from this rostrum until 27 July, when the Royal Decree 640/2021 was published, also during which time we were in the period of amendments. A date when we were in the period of amendments, since Elkarrekin Podemos had requested an extension of the same. And in these circumstances, and unlike the group's position today proposing the amendment as a whole, we saw that we had a good opportunity to reinvigorate the law and provide it with all the relevant legal and legal guarantees. Hence also the eight amendments signed with the Socialist Group, amendments to ensure that this law does not clash, does not clash with any other current legislation and that the project can continue its processing and the university can continue its path. And it is that it will be later and of approval in this House when Euneiz will have to comply with all the regulations and all the requirements that the regulations that apply to them contain. And of all this will be guarantor, as has been throughout the whole dossier, the Department of Education of the Basque Government, as it cannot be otherwise. That is why we have voted no to the Elkarrekin amendment We can, to the amendment to the whole, because we do not want to put more sticks on the wheels, we do not want to slow down this file further and we want to move forward and we want to help it, and on this occasion, we see that as an opportunity to help and try to make this university a reality and an opportunity and try to strengthen the whole system, to try to co-ordinate even more the Arab Historical Territory and the city of Vitoria-Gasteiz, and that will always be our group. Do not seek, therefore, to confront this university with any other, with the University of the Basque Country or with any, do not turn it into an enemy, we do not believe that this is the convenient thing, and seek, that we believe that there is and also in an important way, the enrichment and strengthening of the whole system. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u23	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Third point in theme list: "Auterist and Euscalia Socialist have made the legal proposition of parlamentary groups about protecting animals for their support. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, and then we're going to argue. Besides the Basque Socialists and the Euncierous patriots, someone else wants to participate? Basque Socialists, Mr Price is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u24	The CEO... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u25	President, ladies and gentlemen. The protection of animals, in this case, which we are dealing with today as pets, is another task among the public responsibilities of the institutions. In 2019 this initiative was already promoted, which was stalled with the electoral call and delayed with the pandemic. Today we come back with her to this House to give effect to a proposal that we soon want to be law. A good symptom of human evolution is undoubtedly the rising consideration of respect, protection and well-being that has been claimed and regulated for animals. Living together with animals goes beyond whim or fashion and constitutes an exercise of responsibility in possession and care. Animals are sensitive beings who manifest pleasure or pain as they are treated and therefore deserve due respect and attention. European legislation is moving in this direction and Basque legislation must do the same. Today, despite these efforts and considerations, there are also episodes of ill-treatment, cruelty, mutilation for the benefit of human interests, and reducing and avoiding these effects requires progress in legal protection. Legislation in this regard has been produced in the Basque Country for decades, and it is now up to us to update and improve it. This bill aims to be ambitious, to be more useful in future times, to move forward and to serve as a complement together with municipal ordinances, to the improvement of the protection of pets and other species that are not covered by specific regulations. This proposal lays down provisions on food, hygiene, treatment, transport or trade in animals. We deal with the obligations of the owners or those responsible for the animals. We address aspects related to public health, possession and identification of animals. Measures for the protection of lost or abandoned animals, the punishment of such conduct and the prohibition of sacrifices, the regulation of spectacles or the management of urban populations. The relationship between protection and animal protection associations and administrations is improved and an Inter-Agency Council for Animal Welfare and Protection is established. The proposal also addresses measures of census, inspection and surveillance, the General Register of Identification of pet animals and the sanctioning regime for ill-treatment with severe tightening of sanctions and with prohibition of private trade or display in displays. The proposal has counted, has the participation in it of municipalities and deputies. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, pets are good friends, do not criticize, do not ask questions, are grateful, loyal, affective, are good communicators, go light luggage, do not pollute with the car, do not mortgage on the banks, are not obsessed with the mobile, do not fear hell or desire heaven, do not eat without hunger or drink without thirst or speak without having anything to say, as we humans do, and with so many virtues deserve the best law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u26	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u27	The head of the table, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good days to all. Good afternoon, already, all of us. In this country the animal has a law to protect, and though this law be very good, yet they are static rules in the laws, which adapt themselves to the change of the ages and ways of society. Only if lawyers change it, and that's what we want. These new ways are especially visible in the relationship between humans and the rest of animal species, especially domestic ones. Having emerged new sensitivities that intend to approach the rest of living beings, although as almost always when we make a law, we do it from anthropocentrism. But that is almost certainly inevitable as long as dogs or cats do not have the capacity to draft and pass the laws that deal with them. Thus, having heard of everything, and of so many motives, our teams and Socialists, understood in their former law that social alterations had rather diminished the law which had been advanced in their time, as the animal associations have admitted. And from the first moment that the Elkarrekin group We proposed to draft a bill, and we encourage them, and when in December 2019 it was presented in this House, we support it because we understand that the draft came to consolidate, in a certain and dignified way, in a legal text, the new concepts that in animal protection have been extended by society, and that is why we vote yes to its admission to procedure. Well, that proposal by Elkarrekin Podemos informed us that it had been worked with sectoral associations and then contrasted with the Basque Government and, to a lesser extent, with the outlaws. It is evident that associations which protect animals produced many ideas of texture. We thought it necessary to answer many of their petitions, but it was essential, and this was our demand in this discussion, that we should consider and think it proper to see and think of the authorities who governed the laws. When we were about to start the work of appearances, the Parliament was dissolved and the rest already know it, when the new legislature began we proposed the Socialist Group and we would take it back as it was practically prepared. Logically, we asked Elkarrekin We can join our initiative but, for whatever reason, it was not possible, and we went to work on the missing part and analyzed in depth its content with the administrations that are going to have to assume a great deal of work with this law, especially municipalities and parliaments, in addition to the Basque Government itself. These months we have devoted ourselves to that... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... a great burden of work with this law, especially municipalities and deputies, in addition to the Basque Government itself. These months we have devoted ourselves to that. And what we are presenting today is the conclusion of these works, which have been complex and difficult for moments and in which everyone and everyone has had to leave, never better said, hair in the catera. In short, I believe that this small story was required to contextualize this proposal, because the rest, its contents and why they know them and have already been debated in this House in its day. However, as I have already told you, it cannot be obviated that this law is moving forward with respect to the former in its ideological contents, because thought and social sensitivity have really changed. We also know that for some this law will be short, for others it will seem an exaggeration. But Marx already said it: "In contradiction there is synthesis." And neither the Taliban with regard to a vision of the domestic animal practically as a human being, nor that Australian vision of seizing the animal have a place in this bill. We have tried to look for medium points, adapted to what we believe is the new social vision of domestic animals, without being carried away either by absolutism or by not dealing with some issues because they were risky. And, I repeat again, we have always considered the enormous work that we will do with this law in the administrations. Only if we consider that the REGIA, the Public Registry of Animals of the Administration, has registered, today, 348,000 dogs, should we begin to be aware of the dimension of the matter. Dimension that will increase the more irresponsible we behave socially. So easily we make ourselves with animals and so easily we get rid of them that we should stop to think that too often we act with an excess of frivolity that we should regulate. And so this law is intended to act as a catalyst for a new awareness and responsibility so that when any citizen, any citizen decides to take care of an animal knows that he or she also acquires a responsibility with all Basque society. And this law seeks to regulate the subject in such a way that every time a domestic animal is acquired it is done with all the consequences of living with it and caring for it until biology determines it. Only with this social commitment will we have made a giant leap in the protection of domestic animals. In addition to freeing the administrations, primarily the municipalities, and also our taxes from having to take care of what some people liked but no longer like. Proiektu honen helburu nagusia hori izanik, ez dit alde will beat utzi etxeko animalik agent aktiboak diren, eta zain dugun eztabaidan aztertzeko aukera izango dugun beast hainbat aldiediak. In short, and I say this with total sincerity, the same as the 1993 law, the precedent to this one, was unanimously adopted, this draft that we are presenting enters this Parliament with the vocation to repeat that position of the groups, because, among other things, we understand that this draft can also be a point of union at a time of important discrepancies and sometimes defiant debates. There are social actors who have already pointed out that this law goes far. Others have already told us that he stays here very much. And we know that our group... in our group that getting right with everyone on a subject of such disparate and distant sensitivities is enormously difficult. More when it's a very untechnical issue, it's very social and everyone has an opinion, everyone. That is why, from the very beginning, we have set out to try to make a law that satisfies a citizen's majority. The question is to get to know where the opinion of that majority is. And we know that that requires investigation, imagination and, in the end, decision. And let no one come and say that they know where that majority is, because I, at least, know that we still don't know. It is an issue of easy opinion, as it does not involve greater commitments. It's now depoliticized. And those who think the most are animal associations or sectorial associations with interests, and they do not represent the opinion of the social majority. There is a debate with all kinds of associations with different interests. It remains to continue to talk with the administrations that are going to manage this law. But, above all, there is much exchange between the parliamentary groups; for what I initially ask for the best predisposition. Ours know it's guaranteed. If we are all able to reach a synthesis and abandon maximalism, I am sure we will reach a good port. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u28	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Does anyone want to participate in the opposite round? The discussion is over and we'll vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; the votes given, 73; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 0; abstainments, 27; white, 0.1 [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; the votes given, 73; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 0; abstainments, 27; white, 0.1 So the bill has been considered. We'll go next to the vote. Missity isn't there, PPCiudados, Miss Larrea, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u29	President, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u30	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u31	We have voted in favour of taking this bill into consideration. We have done so, because we have long considered it necessary to update our legislation in this area. But not because we understand that the proposed text or the initiative are the best. In the last legislature our group presented another proposal for a law for this same purpose. To a large extent, with the same content. We were willing to accept all kinds of improvements and amendments. But the Government opposed its handling, that is, it opposed the consideration. They then said that the law in force was an integral law, that there was no need for a rule for pets. They also said that he dealt with minor issues. And, on the other hand, he did not talk, for example, about the shepherd dog contests. It's been three years, and two things could have happened. One, that the government maintained its view and assumed its consideration, as it did in 2018. Another, if the Government had changed its mind, would have worked hard on the issue and sent us a bill, accompanied by the relevant reports. Well, well, not one thing, not the other. Neither maintains its view nor has a draft law been drafted. They have merely passed on to the groups that support the Government this text that we are considering today. No report, no analysis, no recognition of the error three years ago. Just a bill, but three years later. Conclusion of our group: you have made us lose three years. They have not even addressed the issues that were missing in our proposal for a law on the protection and defence of pets. Not an article dedicated to shepherd dogs, which they were so concerned about at the time. If anything has become clear, they said "no, why not" to the consideration in 2018. We do not like the chosen route, because the Government has more means to put forward an in-depth debate on any bill. In a law like this, which has some complexity, it would have been to wish for more elaborate processing, which can push the Government and under no circumstances can push the opposition. In any case, that is why we voted in favour. Welcome to the debate. Neither general legislation is the same as in 1993, nor social sensitivity. Citizens have a clear level of demand on these issues, which is higher than three decades ago. And since then there have been many changes in sectoral regulations. Good reflection of this is all about animal welfare. Or the successive reforms of the Penal Code, which criminalized, first, animal abuse, and then in 2015, abandonment and other conduct, exacerbating the penalties until sentences with effective entry into prison during the government of Mariano Rajoy. That the new law was needed seemed clear in 2018. And it was already inevitable. We say that we need an integral law of animal protection that, respecting the sectoral regulations of each species, is at the same time a useful legal tool, a law like that that they already have in Navarre, La Rioja, Catalonia, Asturias, Andalusia, Extremadura, Aragon, Balearic Islands, and that will also have Cantabria. For example, any horse will be protected in each of the municipalities bordering on Euskadi, but not in Euskadi. With the proposal presented, for example, isolated dogs may continue to be kept 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, with impunity, in the absence of a ban on this practice. But what I want to say with these examples is that it seems to us that the text is insufficient in some respects. His postponing leaves gaps that our proposed law covered. And we will therefore work, by amendment, to improve it. We hope that the groups that support the Government, the holders of the initiative, will not, by their majority, seek to prevent contributions to a text that is meriting harsh criticism for its shortcomings. We, in any case, will work on the agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Together Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u33	Egun on. Good morning. Since the proposal of Elkarrekin Podemos of the last parliamentary term has been mentioned, it would have been appropriate, under our consideration, that it would have looked like something, because the truth is that it is a rather sclerotized version of what was the text proposed by our parliamentary group in the previous parliamentary term. Basically, for a fundamental reason and which, in fact, Mrs Larrea has already raised. And it is that the current proposal is limited exclusively to animals or pets, and does not have an integral approach to the issue, as did the proposal made by our group in the previous parliamentary term and which, in fact, reached an agreement, seems to be, between the Basque Socialist Party, the PNV and our parliamentary group. And the reality is that, in the end, that agreement that the previous legislature seems to be going to materialize, but by the deadlines it could not be so. Anyway, in this it has not been possible by the nature of the text... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ...agreement that the previous legislature seems to be that it was going to materialize, but by the deadlines it could not be so. Finally, this has not been possible because of the nature of the text put forward by the two groups supporting the Government. Furthermore, we believe that the text proposed by the parliamentary groups supporting the Government is a clear missed opportunity to move forward in animal protection. The 1993 legislation has been mentioned, and indeed it has been three decades, and we believe that much has changed sociology and also the mentality in relation to animal protection, but the truth is that in few matters the proposed law of the groups supporting the Government improves on that of 93, which did or went beyond what is contained in the proposed text. The law of 93 proposes the protection not only of domestic animals, but also domesticated, savage in captivity, or otherwise, and as it mentioned, an integral vision of all that animal that depends on human beings to survive. We believe that this should be the approach, and in that direction we will act in the process of the proposal through partial amendments, and in the event that the parties that are supporting... are maintained, the parliamentary groups that are supporting the Government in its position not to address this issue in a comprehensive manner, as we will oppose the final text of the proposal. And it is not for us, because I think it has been mentioned in passing, to say that there are sectoral rules that already deal with issues related to livestock or hunting, because that is not true. There are issues that are not addressed in these sectoral regulations and that should be included in such regulations under our consideration. With the proposed law that we are now proposing, if it is going to come into process there will be issues that are not going to be addressed or are not going to be addressed. For starters, this law will allow for the walking trade of horses, sheep or rife piglets as prizes. This law allows free exit for those who promote fights between rams or record and spread cruel attitudes among animals. This law, said Mrs Larrea, will allow a dog to be tied up 24 hours a day on 365 days of the year. This proposed law allows us to sacrifice everything we consider urban pests, an absolutely ambiguous term, that is, everything that is not a dog, a cat or a ferret that lives in any home, can be considered as an urban pest, and therefore, to sacrifice and kill an entire colony of cats, by setting an example, by considering them urban pests and not opting for other more ethical techniques such as sterilization. We believe that 28 years later we deserve a comprehensive animal welfare law, not to be excused from other sectoral regulations so as not to put it in a comprehensive way. And in that sense, we, our parliamentary group, in the process of this proposal, will put forward partial amendments which will substantially improve it by following the line of what was already agreed in the previous parliamentary term and we hope that it will also do so in the previous parliamentary term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u34	Thank you, Mr. Soto. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Housevary, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u35	Good morning, ma'am, good morning to all. Well, you've seen that today our team has been taxed. I will try not to repeat too much, for many things have been mentioned which, being the last one, I shall mention. I'll try not to stretch too long. As has been remarked, he has already had other essays in this House of Law, and as Mrs. Larre has shown, first and then in September, where the popular Basque Autonomy introduced a legal proposition to protect and defend the animal animals of the Esquillia Esar in September 2018. And the initiative came off because it got a touch of fun. In order to explain his attitude, he argued that there was an integral law to protect animals, which was 1993. And then, you know, it wasn't necessary for me to create a specific law about masts. The law, moreover, which was established, asserted that it had a larger area than the activity introduced by the Popular, for it was concerned only with the animals of the Popular. Yet the law-produce which they now bring us has been introduced by the name of the law-proposion to protect animals, and is a specific law about masts. In fact, it's a bit smaller than the law we're in. It is indeed a very pleasant thing to say, which at that time was despised, now reflected in the proposition. After the attempt of the Popular Group was Elkarrekin Podemos, the group that in June 2019 presented a text, which as has been advanced did pass the government filter and was admitted to procedure. On this occasion, it was accepted because, according to the Government, it proposed positive aspects in the field of animal welfare and protection. In fact, the proposal that is brought to us is a copy and paste of the text proposed by Elkarrekin We can, except for some nuances, nuances that for many people could go unnoticed, but that change the proposal and its scope of application in an essential way. Thus, the proposal that the previous legislature was considered suitable for processing has been decafeinated and we have been given a text similar to that of Elkarrekin Podemos, but much more restrictive in substance, such as that of the People's Group. A text that leaves many aspects in limbo that does regulate the law currently in force. We do not know what this change of opinion is about. These contradictions give us doubts about the attitude of the groups which have proposed to the law in the nature of the law. We do not know whether it is to be accepted in the manner in which the true purpose of the process is to advance and improve by negotiation with the other groups, or to adopt them in the manner in which they present the text, as has happened elsewhere. In fact, we're used to most of our team's proposals... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... The object is to accept the text as it is presented, as it has happened in others. For we are used to see most of the proposals of our party rejected, while a few symbolic agreements, according to their present interests, are carried forward. The majority is the majority, and they are constantly employed in this House. Nevertheless, in several communities the regulations of this order are admitted. This shows that society is more and more numerous in this subject, and that the novelty of our regulations is necessary in order to conform to the present state. For this reason, though we doubt and abstain from our doubt of the honesty of the barbarists and party proposing to negotiate by our proposals, yet this does not mean that we renounce the activity in the active tramation, which is quite contrary. We believe that the law is necessary, but we need an integral law to improve what we have now, and which is based on the most comprehensive consent that we can hereafter endure. The text that has come to us in Tramour doesn't look like that at the moment. We shall therefore do all we can to overcome the contradictions that are proposed, to oppose them to those which are involved, and to introduce the constructive corrections, and to negotiate them in consistency. Our goal is to get a final text that will improve the current law. We're ready to negotiate. We'll see if the groups that present the proposal are the same when the law is finished. Let's see if they give us a surprise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Forth point on the theme list: "Pull yourself together as a parlamentary group propose to strengthen the emergency protection system of Euscal Autonomy in the Espromia, in order to operate the least integrated income transfers. To decide once and for all the discussion." Madame Kortja, the member of the EH Collect Group, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, everybody, good morning. What's happening with the minimum income is very troubling. He's enjoying the transfer of min min min mingres, and remember that he needed it for October 31st 2020. And besides, we've been through this whole business and the Spanish government cracks. In the course of many months we've seen Professor Scriavá transfers into mere management, fortified in that proposition, which is supposed to reduce the functions of the practice in the protection of the community, and not transfer the resources, that will not allow any broken goods. I don't know if the comparison is the right thing to do, but, well, we're okay with it, and we're like, that pure management is not at all sufficient, and that we are not at all disposed to be a scursor of Spain. We're talking about a really important matter. It's important in the life of our people, especially in the life of those who are the most vulnerable, and in their protection. And it's a big story that goes beyond the mining ingreso, because it can be a precedent to transfer to Social Security. And what's the situation now? (Minuto y resultado sobre el ingreso mínimo vital?) On Friday, after the Mist Committee, there was announced an arrangement to unlock the bill of the mingret. We had the same or the like in January, on February or March 4th, for example. Look, "Euskdi y Madrid desbloquean el ingreso mínimo vital." What we have now is a new commitment to make a new proposal in October. I am más ni menos, I am menos am más. Un compromisso y una voluntad. At least what has already been. But there's no guarantee that we're not going to be offered any broken goods again. No guarantee of what is offered in the whole way. He was well picked up by the media these days. For example, Deia pointed out: "The great gap between the Basque and Spanish governments, the transfer of minimum living income, could be in the process of being resolved." It could, and it could be; it could be, it could be, it couldn't be. No guarantee either of the words of Write this Tuesday in the Senate to the question of our colleague Senator Iducer Bideguren. The minister said neither yes nor no, nor the opposite. He said he trusts to reach an agreement, he slipped that even it would be appropriate, but he also pointed out that, well, that what was asked exceeds what was agreed, that it had already gone beyond, that there must be legal changes. Finally, there is nothing closed here, and there is no guarantee that the transfer will take place as comprehensively as we need. Horregatik iruditzen zaigu garrantzitsua gaur eztabaidara ekartzen dugun ekimena, behin betiko inpultsu bat emateko denoez ustez garrantzitsua den gai batan, negozaketan, Jaurlaritzak duen positions. We present this initiative on the understanding that in this negotiation that must be given with the Government of the State a parliamentary mandate strengthens the position of the Basque Government on such an important and priority issue. It's Ekimen Honen's hour asmoa. A formula that, in our view, we should use more frequently to strengthen our negotiating position as a country on issues that we consider to be priorities and strategic, such as this, to avoid what has happened with all this, or to then not regret the way Councilman Azpiazu did yesterday for the distribution of European funds. And look if we haven't tried. That's why I'm so glad you made the deal today, we've all left important things on the way, we have to admit it. But it is clear that the majority of this legislature tends first to transfer the minor income into the integrated and immediately transferred transfer of the minority to life, and we must also employ the opportunity to ensure our incomes to strengthen our income system. "He's accerdo de mínimos que sirva de immulso esculivo en la polición que titene el Gobierno Vasco en la negociación de un persistente impantante, y que puede auliar un prejuón de impatomitado aba, Gizia y Usci y nafar une vanta ven de la la la vanta de la la la la vanta de la la la vanta de la la la la la la la la la la lasciciad merár." And in this sense, I think the discussion of this day must be of use, besides making this agreement valid, and strengthening that position, in order to raise the different ends of thread which the subject has, and to emphasize the importance of them. It's very important that thousands of families and people's vital security is upside down right now... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... To stress importance. It's very important that thousands of families and people's vital security is upside down right now. Look, for the size of the subject. In 2020, the incomes of incomes were collected to ensure the 18.224 demand, more than in 2019. Forty-one per cent of these applications have been, or have been, refused or rejected, or abandoned or filed. And as we are told, the reason for the refusals is always the failure to comply with any of the requirements set out in the current standard. It is not that a situation of necessity was not given, but that the conditions are not fulfilled, is it not? And this, in itself, at least, should lead us to analyse the suitability of this regulation and the requirements for access. And if, according to the poll of Sociality and Differity, they have tried to sell the data in a very positive manner, the reality is that there is one of the five citizens in a state of poverty, that 22.500 people are in danger of falling into poverty, and that social differences increase in ours. And I'm not going in now to mention the dysfunctions that have the income systems to guarantee our incomes, but reality is that our system shows poverty and its intensity when it shows weakness. And it was like, "Y dirsi la crisi sanitaria también ha puesto a praeba la adecución y la fortaleza de nuestro de derentia de ingreos, ya cusiono antes de la crisi." So, even if we try to make a make-up, reality isn't easy, and we're talking about a matter that affects a lot of people's life project. In this context, we welcomed IMV, and I shall not begin here to talk about it. We welcomed him, though he's our own system, and he's Araba, Typus and Bazazia and Nafarroan, isn't he? And we welcomed the agreement to transfer the management of the minimum ingree. At the first moment, to avoid the chaos that had been created and created, as the first step, well, como primer apolpae, well, pues valía. But that, of course, is not enough. And so we said. Because the important thing is not the transfer itself; the important thing is what we want to manage for. For what we want the transfer of minimum vital income, or how to convert a limited impact benefit in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa into a window of opportunity to protect more and better, and to respond to the pressing needs that are leaving us, for example, this pandemic. For us, minimum living income is a window of opportunity to regain our capacity for innovation in minimum income and protection policies. And it is an opportunity to transform the future design of our revenue guarantee policies. Above all, it is an opportunity to invest in reducing our poverty levels and their intensity. In short, what I said before: it is an opportunity to protect more and better. And that's what we told him, anyway, the same President Urkullu, on the 14th of May the first year, we even sent him up on the conference plan. In order to strengthen and strengthen our own protection system, it is a window to handle, to guarantee the incomes adapted to new times and needs, for a new design of your system, less universal, less conditioned, more normal, and more effective for a system of access and efficiency. And that requires full handling, and it is urgent. And in this sense it is another end of the thread, that is to be remarked, that is to say, that which comes back to this subject, what is the matter of securing our revenues with the reforms of the revenue. In fact, I was introduced to a reform project too, but the project itself, if the transfer to which it may be engaged, is not completed as a whole. Porque una transferentia litdi a la gestion, lejos de hacer que el ingreso mínimo vital se intro en nuestro de proteción, surborina summite la RI al ingreso mnimo vital. And it must be remarked that this question is a case beyond the mintal ingresis. And it's especially troubling that it would have to be a record of the Social Security Transfer transfers. Moreover, as an integrated benefit in the social security system, it would already be included in that famous calendar that the governments of the State and the autonomous community have for the negotiation of transfers, by the way, at the initiative of Euskal Herria Bildu, right? Now, the only thing that would happen is that this benefit would be advanced; it would be no more, and perhaps there is a very large part of the problem that lies in this subject: that in this transfer it should be the foreground, the advance of the transfer of the other passive employment policies and Social Security in general. And of course, that this, at the moment, is being limited to mere management, is very worrying. Eta guk esan dugu ore baino lehen, 40 urte beranduago, kudeaketa hutsarekin ez gara konformatuko, gu ez garcalalako, inondik inora, Espainiaren subsala. And it must also be stressed that this is a tangle that is not a strip and loose that is given without more; that has very important conditions. It's not a harmless mess, is it? The situation that is arising in this whole situation is quite chaotic. Bear zaila da bi prosprezioen uztartzea, éta egoera kaotikoa da prosprezio hauen onuradunentzako. And so we have seen how the State has begun to pay the recognized benefits that have sometimes hit people who were already recipients of GIR. And we've seen how Lanbide has activated the request for undue charges, on time, but returns, to many of those people. We have seen how data and revenue crossing is impossible. And even, maybe what's more serious, huh? We have seen that those who, without being previously recipients of income guarantee income, now are, if they perceive the delays in the minimum living income relative to the months in which they were not recipients, have to return the amount to Lanbide. Anyway, it's chaos that we can't afford to keep longer. And in conclusion there is a last remark, which is very important to us, especially because we have talked a great deal about the new state in the past few days. Everything that has happened around the mining area is confirmed by the fact that we believe that the Basque People have been repeated over and over in this Parliament. To protect people, to guarantee worthy lives... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... All this confirms, as we believe, the Basque Country repeated in this parliament: To protect people, to guarantee worthy lives, and in general to resist our colasimal challenges as people, we have more than ever needed our own instruments, our social reality, and our new instruments and functions fitted to the level of life, and to talk and agree about them. Bath before drinking horretan, age ikusi dugu kontu honekin, ez da nahikoa. I think that what happened with the minimum income is a clear and very practical and very graphic example of what we have been living or what we say when we talk about recentralisation or silent erosions, right, Mrs Garamendi? We want a long-distance income guarantee system, with all its problems and shortcomings. The State decides to implement the minimum living income and although, in general terms, it has little impact on Araba, Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia and, in general terms, our system is more secure, suddenly our system is subordinated to the provision of the State and we become one day to another in a branch or in a window, as Minister Escriva said, at first as a tangle, but then the mess goes on, the issue gets complicated and until that situation is going to be, for the time being, until the Government of the State wants to. And, meanwhile, a mess is organized in which a lot of people are affected and lost, in this case, thousands of people. Thus, apart from these instruments, it is clear that we need a different relation to the state, and require guarantees of what those who are here determined will be respected. Eta utzidazue lizentzia txiki bat, since gaur adostasun kliman gauden, éa adostasun klima ha aprovetxatuz, iradokizun txiki bat egingo diszuet. Status berriaren auziak presarik ez duela esaten duzuenean, lehentasunezkoa ez dela esaten duzuenean, edo eztabaida horren aurretik herritaren benetako arazoei weretzun behar zaiela esaten duzuenean, when you tell us that what is urgent now is to respond to real needs, to everyday needs, to the things of food, which now has to expand and consolidate rights as if they were two exclusive ways, so remember us of all this mess, agreed of all this mess around the minimum vital income, of all the locks, of the chaos that has been generated, of the affection that this has in people and in the execution of their rights. Just remember that for a second. Y, remember, remember all this. Take a turn because we're talking about this and not about other things. We're talking about the new political state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections together Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Soso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u39	Hello. Good, again. Our parliamentary group is committed, as reflected in the compromise, to deepening self-government and this particular issue, of course, with more reason and more effort. We believe that it is necessary to speed up the transfer of this resource, which is the minimum living income, to the extent possible; it is true that a milestone in public social protection within the framework of the State, and that in Euskadi, in any case, what constitutes an opportunity to reinforce what has been the social shield itself. The unprotected situation that we are currently experiencing after the pandemic, the economic situation, acute inequality, the poverty indicators should either make us aware of or put them on the alert of the need for a social shield system that does not really leave anyone behind. The GIR – and this is something that has already been raised from different parliamentary groups and from the third sector – needs to declare reforms and an effort to tackle them clearly, because, of course, it has not served to meet the level of unprotectiveness that we live as a society in its entirety. The Lehendakari Urkullu, in the past debate of the State of autonomy, boasted of the slight decrease in the number of people in severe real poverty in the autonomous community, which did not tell us that there are other figures that are trying to hide: an increase in the number of people at risk of relative poverty, around 400,000 people; an increase in the risk of serious poverty, 132,000 people; an increase in child poverty, almost 60 per cent of the population in poverty, are households with children under the age of 14. Child poverty has grown almost one and a half points in the last two years to 11.7 per cent of the population under the age of 14. The Basque Government has been cutting the GIR since 2012, while in its poverty and inequality survey it admits that a third of the population, as Mrs Kortajarena of Euskadi has said, faces serious difficulties in reaching the end of the month. As necessary as the transfer of self-management of vital minimum income is the effective, transparent and social management of the current GIR. A management criticized from the street to the institutions for the high bureaucracy, the tightening of access requirements, the obsession with control and the persecution of non-existent frauds. So, we say, yes, to the integral transfer of minimum vital income, but with the explicit objective of being able to strengthen – and so it comes also in the transactional –, expand and strengthen our own social protection system from the obligation as public authorities to respond to the subjective right of all Basque citizens. An income that guarantees a dignified life. What better opportunity to show off the self-government of Euskadi than to go beyond the social shield deployed to face the post-pandemic... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... guarantee a dignified life. What a better opportunity to demonstrate the self-government of Euskadi than to go beyond the social shield deployed to deal with the post-pandemic, precisely in the use of a measure as important as the RGI. It seems good to us to focus on the development of self-government, but without losing sight of the reflection that will entail the management of two services that today, and it has also been said, is bringing innumerable problems, and also that for what. In our view, and this is reflected in the text of the agreement, the vital minimum income transferred in its entirety should serve to extend the scope and guarantee of two fundamental rights: the right to income that enables a dignified life and the right to inclusion. Our group understands that the full transfer of vital minimum income is a shared goal. The same has been true of the implementation of this instrument since the Executive of the State. But we have always argued that the same thing that has been a milestone in the state was the case and is to take advantage of this opportunity in Euskadi and ensure that minimum living income improves the Basque system of social benefits or strengthens them so that it effectively ends poverty. We start from what has been a benefit like GIR, indeed, in many cases, of course, better than minimum living income, we raise minimum living income as an opportunity to strengthen GIR. Our formation, our parliamentary group, moreover, believes that at the present time of the reform of the Basque Income Guarantee and Inclusion System Act, there is an unalterable opportunity to set up a system that from a gender perspective and the shielding of rights advances in the individualization, non-conditionality and universality of the latter. The arrival of the transfer of the minimum living income cannot in any case, and we will be vigilant so that this does not happen, in a withdrawal or loss in one of the resources allocated to the GIR or in the system of benefits that today make up the present system of social protection of Euskadi. We believe that it is important that the full transfer of minimum vital income should take place from the guarantee that the management of this minimum vital income will rotate on four fundamental axes, the same ones that various organizations demand as essential for its inclusion in the RGI reform project: the rights approach, the gender approach, the model of people-centred care and universal accessibility, especially accessibility in the information and communication processes of the management of both rents, taking into account the progress of digitization and the alerts that Ararteko transferred to us on this issue a few weeks ago in his report on the digital administration and the relations of the citizenry. In conclusion, our parliamentary group welcomes the agreement. We believe that the exercise and the pronouncement that we are going to make here as a broad majority of the parliamentary arc in relation to the request for the full transfer of minimum living income is good news and we hope that this will certainly arrive as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u40	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mr. Rico is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u41	Thank you, Madam President. I think that as with almost all things it can be seen from different prisms and also depending on the attitude of each of us because they can be more positive or more negative. I do not know if it will be by pragmatism, by experience, by anthropological optimism, by a mixture of the three, but the truth is that I believe that today we can talk about several good news for the whole Basque citizenship. And I am not going to start with the last one, which is that we have an agreement, a compromise amendment, the amending groups and the proposing group. I'll start at the beginning, at the first. And it is that all representatives of the Basques in the Congress of Deputies year and a half ago endorsed the IMV, the minimum living income. Therefore, here we are not going to discuss whether or not it is necessary, we all share it. As far as the Socialists are concerned, we were already on the electoral agenda in 2015 and it has now been when it has been possible to get started. Nothing can be thanked for the pandemic, but it is true that the pandemic has accelerated this decision. The second of the good news that we can transfer to Basque citizenship is that an immense majority of representatives of Basque citizenship believe that the transfer of minimum vital income is necessary. And look, if you stop looking at the parliamentary tradition a little bit, there are not too many structural agreements in this Parliament, and yet this coincidence is very important. The third good news is that the Basque Socialists also have a lot of satisfaction, and it is the one that has fallen among the majority of the representatives sitting here, that this transfer has to be made concrete in its integration into our Income Guarantee System. And this is important to us because we have expressly introduced it into the Government Agreement and we have put it into practice in a model designed by the department of vicelehendakari Idoia Mendia. Because this was never a pose. This was, is and will be a conviction in terms of our self-government, was said by someone who has intervened before me, yes, but more importantly, by concept and thinking about what this means for perceiving people and also for Lanbide workers. Today with the management commission it is not well understood what this is, and besides, what window they have to turn to. And it is our obligation to make it easy and we are in it. There is no other option, we do not have a plan B and the vicelehendakari was very clear from the beginning in this. In December, three months after taking office and after a working group had been set up to see the order, he first transferred to the minister that the only option was full transfer. The Lehendakari was subsequently made aware of this and since then has been working in a coordinated way with Councilwoman Garamendi, who is currently responsible for the conclusion of the agreement. And my group is confident that we will be able to close that transfer... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... which is the one that currently has the responsibility to conclude the agreement. And my group is confident that we will be able to close that transfer and do so in the terms we have said, to share the advisers, to share the Government as a whole and to share my parliamentary group. There is a fourth good news, which is the signals sent by the Basque Government and the Government of Spain. Last Friday's meeting with Minister of Territorial Policy, Isabel Rodríguez, where two governments were clearly visualized with the will to move forward and agree. And also the statements of Minister Escrivá himself, to which reference was made earlier, in the Senate, answering a question from EH Bildu, where he told us that we will agree and that we have to go to a single window model, because what we should all care about is that vulnerable Basque citizens get the benefit. A window is the way we have to go and find the legal framework by which that can materialize. This joint scenario that I have just told the Basque Socialists makes us wonder that we are on the right track. With the satisfaction that this transfer will be finalized in its integration into our Income Guarantee System. Because, I told you before, it was not a pose, it was and it is a conviction about what our model should be, what we want for the future, starting from the system of most successful protection that exists in Spain and which guarantees to all citizens a certain income when it meets certain requirements, a subsidiary income and complementary to all the other income that this person may have of the right. And, if I may, it is also important to clarify that today we are not discussing the future model. It will be up to this House to bring it forward as soon as possible. Because here too we have another good news: the Department of Labour and Employment is carrying out its duties on time. And they're known to all of us. In the reply, I will reply to some of the points made by Mr Soto. But, making a timetable, in January the vice-lehendakari gave order to start the elaboration of the future law of the Basque system of income guarantee and inclusion, in May that law was drafted and presented publicly, in June the period of public claims was opened, since July there is a second draft and only the internal reports are missing for this Parliament to work on it. A project that, as it is committed to the Government Programme, contains a modern, more agile, efficient model for collectors and Lanbide workers, which reaches with greater intensity where there are minors and also where there are older ones and which includes improvements made in the past legislature both by the third sector and by parliamentary groups. But that debate will come. And I want us all to seize the opportunity to be aware that in our hand it will continue to build the social Euskadi in which we all believe. And that's what we're in for. The Socialists today we are left with what is relevant. A large majority agree with the need to transfer the minimum vital income. We also agree that it should be part of our system of income guarantee and inclusion, as the Basque Socialists have always defended. Both governments, the Basque Government and the Government of Spain, are working on this and we trust to close that transfer. We're on the right track and there's will. And, on the other hand, the Department of Labour and Employment, led by Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia, is carrying out its duties in time and already has a draft of the future law of the Basque system of income guarantee and inclusion that contemplates the new reality of minimum living income and that will soon be referred to this House for debate by all groups. We agree on many things, as you see. And as far as this issue is concerned, we have been able to reach a comprehensive agreement between the Socialist Party, the Basque Nationalist Party, EH Bildu and Podemos, to whom I would like to thank this position, and especially the proposing group and Mrs Kortajarena. An agreement, they will allow me, to launch the last and most important of the good news, is that we all have the common objective of strengthening our income-guarantee system, with the aim of tackling poverty and social exclusion and advancing social cohesion. Well, that's what we're working on. We'll have time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u42	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u43	Thank you, ma'am. Chief bureau, congressmen, good morning to all. Kortajarena andrea, testuari zeuk jarri zenion izenburua, eta honek badu bere garrantzia honela diolako: "EAEko babes-system indartzeko bizitzeko gutxianeko errentaren eskualdaketa integrala gauzatzeari buruz". Eta zuk hiru idea gartu dituzu. The first is the need for such a transfer to take place in an integral way. The second, your concern, concerns that, if not, it would have an impact on the future law of the Income Guarantee System by failing to strengthen our social protection system. And also your concern that, if not, it would set a precedent for other transfers. Ideas that we share to a large extent. We, in your day, amend your initiative by concretely setting out the key issues you raised in your justification, urging your compliance in two areas. The first area, IMV transfer. We urged the Basque and State Governments to complete as soon as possible the process of transferring minimum living income, as committed by both sides. We urged it to be done in an integral way. Secondly, we urged the Basque Government to strengthen the income guarantee income model, contemplating the new reality of minimum living income, with the aim of strengthening the model. Today we sign this compromise text, which reflects our amendment. And we welcome the broad agreement that we have been able to reach between all of us. Those two parts. The transfer in the first place. I believe that in this matter it is important to remember how on May 27, 2020 our spokesman in Congress, Aitor Esteban... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... Those two parts. The transfer, first of all. I think it is important in this matter to remember how, on 27 May 2020, our spokesman in Congress, Aitor Esteban, explained and appreciated the agreement reached between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Government of the State, by which the functions and services corresponding to the INSS are to be assumed in Euskadi, in relation to minimum living income. It is agreed that the decree law of the IMV must contain a specific text in an additional provision. According to the above-mentioned text, the Government of the State undertakes, as already mentioned, to transfer the IMV, through the corresponding agreements of the Joint Transfer Commission, and undertakes that the transfer must take place before 31 October 2020. The Basque Nationalist Party undertakes to vote in favour of the validation of the decree law. From our point of view, this agreement, without doubt, shows once again the effectiveness of our party in defending in Madrid the interests of Basque citizenship, leads, legally and materially, the implementation of the IMV, thus enhancing social protection to our citizenship, and supports Basque self-government by strengthening bilaterality. The Government of the State approves the Royal Decree Law 20/2020 establishing IMV, fulfilling the first of its commitments, by strictly collecting the text agreed upon in additional provision V of the decree. On 10 June 2020, the decree was validated. The Basque Nationalist Party is voting in this regard, fulfilling its commitment. On 31 October 2020, the deadline laid down in additional provision V of the validated decree is reached. The transfer does not materialize at that time. The Government of the State is starting to lag behind. It's been almost a year since that first breach, and we're still waiting. It is true, it is true that this time with a commitment that took out the Garamendi Sailburu to the new Minister of Territorial Policy, Isabel Rodríguez, in the meeting that they held last Friday. We want to see the glass half full. We want to think that the matter has been resolved and that the new minister has been active on this important issue. Because the pandemic, first; the Catalan elections, then; the remodeling in July of the state government... Everything has been done to ensure that this transfer has not become effective on the agreed date. We'll stay with him soon. And we'll stay with him on the agreed terms. That is, a full transfer, without cutting off functions or services, a transfer that respects self-government. And at this point I would like to highlight the shared position with the Socialist Party of Euskadi, citing the words of the Sailburu Mendia in the question that you yourself posed to him on 11 June. Said the Sailburu: "The Basque Government guarantees the fulfilment of its government programme. This government program includes the full transfer of vital minimum income. And that," he concluded, "the minister knows it many months ago." A minister, Mr Escrivá, whose attitude we, our party, have questioned, on the understanding that he was a brake on this whole negotiation. We are now entering, it seems, a more productive phase of work, and we remain with the commitments and with the word of Minister Rodriguez. They no longer serve excuses. The second part, strengthen our protection model. A large part of our election program regarding the protection model is reflected in the government agreement we signed with the Socialist Party in September 2020, which is the basis of the government program that reflects the essential commitment to develop, improve and strengthen the income guarantee income model, contemplating the new reality of minimum living income. And this is essential, as income guarantee systems are one of the distinctive features of the welfare states of the European Union, and are part of the core of the European social model. And while it cannot be said that guaranteed incomes have been able to completely eradicate poverty and social exclusion in Europe, the positive impact they have is undeniable. In this context, the Basque model of income guarantee is fully consistent with the guidelines emanating from Europe. After more than 30 years of development, our system has become one of the main hallmarks of our self-government. A collective success, no doubt, and a reference. A model that has been able to prevent and contain the growth of poverty and inequality in Euskadi, without compromising the competitiveness and employment generation capacity of the Basque economy. Indeed, it is one of the factors that explains the best comparative socio-economic position of our community and its ability to continue advancing towards well-being. However, the growth in the number of long-term unemployed, the lack of resources for migrants, the feminization of the risk of exclusion, disability or the situation of low-income pensioners are some examples of the various factors that have contributed to the increase in the number of people in need of protection. This reality is being accentuated by the growth of more precarious forms of employment, which significantly affect the population with lower qualifications. We were able to see all this more strongly during the health and socio-economic crisis caused by the pandemic. We face great challenges in the coming years. And for that, and for that, we need to use all the tools at our fingertips efficiently. The IMV is one of those tools, so we must strengthen our income guarantee system, contemplating this new reality. This will force us to gain in efficiency, agility, rationality in the management of two services with differentiated requirements and obligations. The Sailburu Mendia, in presenting the basic lines of its department, invited us to reflect on the immense political opportunity that parliamentary groups have to feel as protagonists of the strengthening of the Basque system of social protection. He said to us, referring to his department: "We will listen, we will dialogue... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... strengthening the Basque social protection system. He said to us, referring to his Department: "We will listen, we will dialogue, we will try to agree, and, in any case, we will act, because circumstances so require." We have done this reflection. Let's pick up the glove, Sailburu. Our vocation of dialogue and agreement is intact. Because, if we really want to strengthen the system among all of us, we will have to do so from rigor and serenity, away from demagogy and easy speech. We are a country that is at the forefront of social policies. We have had an instrument that has avoided many situations of poverty and facilitated socio-occupational inclusion. Now we have to adapt, improve and strengthen to remain that vanguard. If we share this, as today we have shared the text that we are going to adopt, we have an important part of the road travelled. We are faced with an immense political opportunity that we cannot miss. And taking advantage of this good moment, as you did, that we live around this agreement today, remember not to miss this opportunity. Our parliamentary group, we and we, have made that commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u44	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing the teams that don't run, Mistto. It's your word, Mrs Martínnez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to you all again. We are witnessing a new debate in which the left is trying to stand as the Robin Hood of the Basques. And, once again, they do so by taking advantage of their best position vis-à-vis the rest of the Spanish provinces, also as a necessary partner to keep Mr Sánchez in power. A status that also shares, let us not forget, with the lords of the PNV, who for the moment have already achieved autonomy in the management of the minimum income vital, but who still want more. They are also joined by Podemos and PSE, as we see in this compromise amendment. In Vox, of course, we are against this vital minimum income under the conditions under which it has been approved in this Government. We are opposed because they have an effect called chronic unemployment. That is, a bread for today and hunger for tomorrow, which leads irremediably to the chronification of poverty. This manna, with which the left holds many Spaniards attached, is not the solution for the worst who are going through it. Yes, it can be a temporary relief, but under no circumstances should it be a permanent help. The Government's vital minimum income has made many Spaniards no longer actively seek work. And you know it. You know that, because that's what happened in the Basque Country with income guarantee income. How many Basques have managed to reintegrate into the labour market while claiming Lanbide's benefit? You know that? Or perhaps I should ask you about the votes you have obtained with this help. We all know that this is a more marketing tool, merely advertising that shows that its interest is not to achieve job reintegration, and that, instead, it gives rise to a subsidized, dormant and lazy society boasting of living from rents. No, gentlemen, no, in Vox we cannot allow Mr Sánchez to use the Spanish to pay his mortgage to the enemies of Spain. The Basque Country has been granted the autonomy of managing minimum income vital, so that there will be Spanish first and Spanish second in the access to income according to whether they live in the Basque Country or in the rest of the provinces of Spain. In exceptional situations of economic crisis such as the current one, Vox is not against the fact that the most needy Spaniards receive a minimum subsistence income in order to be able to meet their basic needs, but not permanently and through 11 national minimum income programmes and 17 autonomous as at present. The State must unify and centralise all these aids and ensure equal access for all Spaniards. You yourself have been able to see the problems with the duplication and the undue income, as you call them, which now have to return many taxpayers who have received aid on one side of the state and on the other side of Lanbide. The Government has spent many months without taking measures to protect the economy, in many cases ERTE has not been paid or has been late, it has attacked tourism, commerce and hospitality, but they have, in the first place, gained the share of self-employed people. They have impoverished the Spaniards and now we are presented as the great saviors with the approval of this minimum income. In Vox we told you at first, we don't believe the Robin Hood of this movie. That's why we say this isn't a movie, it's real life, and in the real world people want to get up every morning and go open their business, work to get their family and the workers in charge. That is not our goal, what we want is for Spain to lift the blind every day. Combating poverty is a priority goal for Vox, and condemning the Spaniards to live on public income is not the way to achieve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u46	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u47	Thank you, President. Good morning again, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Well, on the substantive issue, we have all taken a stand in parliamentary debates and on the issue, ultimately, of minimum living income. And that approach and debate has already taken place where it was to be done, and there are the positions. We are now talking about the issue of transfers. Of course, and in the light of the GNP presented to us by Bildu, EH Bildu, at the time, we saw that we had to vote only in an approach against GNP presented by EH Bildu, of course, that the only thing he intended was to put a wedge, a political wedge, a wedge in the process of negotiating the transfer that was open, open and in the process of negotiation. And EH Bildu also took a little advantage of the concerns that he had in some way expressed in some way a little exaggerated and a little disqualifying also from the Minister of Social Security himself. The Basque Nationalist Party itself wanted to take advantage of... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...sometimes a little exaggerated and a little disqualifying also from the Minister of Social Security himself. The Basque Nationalist Party itself wanted to take advantage of a bit of that more or less staged hoax that was out there in relation to something that was agreed and that would have its process, of course, some of the haste can and, in that sense, the PNV could also have the haste and staged it in a way also sometimes a little abrupt in relation to the Government of Spain, mistrusting and having a somewhat, sometimes hard vision in relation to some negotiation process or evaluation that was made. Man, it is that it is a negotiation, that of the transfer, like all, but each..., some will be easier, others will be more complicated and others less, a negotiation that will be complicated and that is complicated, especially because of the important economic character to which it refers, very important economic character, and because of the need also – this was also said by Mr Escriva himself – to carry out normative reforms to carry it out. It is a question that is not baladi, that has to be done and that has to be legally assured; all these things have to be focused and must be done well, and "as soon as possible, as soon as possible". No, as soon as possible, okay, but what has to be done first is good. And also because of the specific issues of our uniqueness, the questions of respect for forality, which also uniqueizes the issue in relation to that negotiation process, that is, things must be done well. And that is why the initial initiative presented by Mrs Kortajarena was completely out of date. I have at one point, yesterday, when I saw yesterday or before yesterday, some statement and I have thought, well, I am sure that it will withdraw the initiative because it has already been overtaken by the approaches, by some considerations that I heard carried out by Minister Escrivá, Social Security, the other day in the Senate. But, well, it is presented to us, the original initiative is transformed into an amendment now agreed by all the groups of the governmental support of the Congress of Deputies because, after all, this initiative is signed by all the groups that are partners of the central government and of the support of the Congress of Deputies. And we will abstain, we will not vote in favour. It does not seem right to us to say – on this subject, eh, on these issues of legal importance – "as soon as possible". We understand that it will be done when it can be done, with all the legal guarantees and with all the economic rigour and all the legal and budgetary rigour. That is to say, if any of the negotiating parties, such as any negotiation process, in this case the ministry, has seen or sees some problems, they will have to be fixed before, of course, definitive transparency is achieved and that will have to be agreed and negotiated and transferred, but it will also have to be acknowledged and responsible for doing things right. The negotiations are open and it will be in those negotiations when all legal and economic needs are adjusted and when all this is adjusted is when it will have to proceed, as soon as I know or not, but well, but at least correctly, by adjusting to the law and adjusting to the legality, needs and economic balance of the State as well. That is, it is clear in those issues what needs to be done and what we understand how to address this circumstance and this negotiating process. It is clear that Lanbide must be prepared to deal with this transfer with solvency. That is the case, that is part of the agreements and for this it also needs changes and adaptations and adaptations. It is quite clear that we have already seen Lanbide's course, tortuous and sufficient on many occasions, and now all of a sudden more challenges are presented to him. And I believe that this is one of the first issues that needs to be considered as well. And, in that sense, there will be the responsibility of the Government and the commitments of the Government in relation to that adequacy and modernization and improvement in the management of an instrument as important for all this as Lanbide. Let's hope it can be like this. We will of course support that modernization and management and try to contribute to that debate. It seems that when we are talking, in this case, about the transfer of the Vital Minimum Income, which is given and given. No, no, Transfer no, minimum vital income. Well, no. We know that it has to go through a process that is very complex and it seems that we are talking more about those issues than about the essentials, that what has to happen to deal with the policies that we have to manage, but not "transfer is given and point", we have to negotiate them. And in that case we, look, we do not like the Government of Spain very much, but we do trust in this case that a ministry that has to address – in this case, that of Social Security – a process like this, does so with the best and the greatest guarantees for the good of all, not only of the recipient of the transfer, but for the good of all. In that sense, transfers are negotiated. And Mrs Kortajarena was talking about that the situation is graphic but, of course, for us in the sense absolutely different from what the spokesman for EH Bildu said, that is, because she was talking about the baton of re-centralisation around. Don't you? We don't, it's graphic because you see that sometimes transfers and sometimes those processes that are part of living dynamics, they're complex, they're complicated, and what needs to be done is good. I mean, everything fixes the urgency and, if not, it's refocusing. We will be talking about re-centralizing with the new Act on Contributions, and we will be talking about the re-centralisation of the Basque Government, because it fills the mouth of the erosion of the central government, to the Basque autonomous competences and, however, there are the erosion of competences towards the deputies and the municipalities by what they want to approve in the Act on Contributions. But, well, that's another debate. It is clear that, at this point in time, I trust the Ministry of Social Security to address the issue so that any agreement reached is fair and does not unbalance the final delivery of Vital Minimum Income throughout Spain, and that, of course, is what must be done, that the administrations agree on policies, in this case feasible transfers and with rigour, and sometimes it is difficult to fit all the pieces, and that is why we must work on it and, in that sense, because we are in that confidence. That doesn't mean that, regardless of the completion of that transfer, the administrations, ours and all... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... that work it and, in that sense, for in that confidence we are. That does not mean that, regardless of the completion of that transfer, the administrations, ours and all the others, are not working on social cohesion, on the fight against poverty, exclusion and progress in these social aspects. It is quite clear that regardless of the transfer or not, at the moment, we have the instruments, the mechanisms for the most disadvantaged to see their situation improve. Regardless of the transfer, the transfer will give more channels and improvements, but we'll do it right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u48	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the answer shift, representative of the EH Collect Group, Mrs. Kotja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I think there's already news, when Mr. Barrio tells us that he trusts the Ministry of Social Security; that's newsable, but good. And then, that you're in no hurry, because we already know that. We have lived it, and, forty-five years later, we are as we are. It is not a question of doing things well, as you say, nor of rigor. This is a lack of will on the part of the governments in office, some of which were the group you represent. And I have heard the words spoken here by Mr. Rico and by Mr. Adarz. And I've been confirmed by the uncertainty or anxiety I've come here, and the doubting attitude, haven't I? Because Mr. Rico referred to this effort Mrs. Mountain made directly to the Minister. Mr. Arianz, also, mentioned the essays of the chief of the Mount Garasim, and spoke of the agreements of Mr. Esteban. And, all of them being there, a year later, the situation of the moment, as has been said before, is "minuto yresultado," now, and for today nothing is shut up. And that we have no guarantees, yes, our intentions have appeared as they have appeared before. And that we have no guarantees, as we need it, to think that the transfer will arrive at once in the integral. We have no guarantees for that. And besides, I'd like to see it too, and I also make that attempt, as Arar used to say, de ver el vasotio illeno, don't I? But I've already shown you this Fourth March headline, haven't I? And it's the same: "Euskadi y Madrid desbloquean el ingreso mínimo vital." So, in this sense, I think all these efforts are somehow confirmed by the importance of this agreement which has been obtained in this legislature today, because we are at the moment of a long year's confusion. As I have mentioned before, this confusion, and a mere confusion of governments, has terrible modifications, like those which are given in other matters, in the life of many and many people. And that's why I'd like to make an arrangement today, right? For, it seems to me, by the agreement which the Basque People are urging to-day, with orders and infulsion in the Parliament, I think it will be a different position for you. And that the chances are given, once for all, this embrollal of the transfer, and to end it and give it the transition in integration, is urgent. Y sí es, sí es Urgente. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And this way of articulated, as I was saying before, isn't it? If, or if we were to take this plan, we would also take it to other matters. And I have already mentioned the funds in Europe, but I believe that in this effort, as a people, our position is of the most important importance, because we see the consequences. And then there's laments coming, Mr. Substude complained yesterday. Well, should we see another force (the tactics) than that? (a) What was the situation? Eta, hortik aurrera, Aiartza jaunak ere esaten zuen: wool exean izango dugu. Bai, it is. Minimum vital income is presented as an opportunity for our system, which already has symptoms of weakness, as it can be redesigned. And we can protect more and better. Ez? Aukera dago bikaina. I only hope that two things will not happen: the one, the ingreso mínimo vital, not to understand it as saving or mouthing, because in that too there were certain declarations of this kind. And I hope you hear your words, too, that no vayamos is a morir de èxito. Hope there's no vayamos a morir de éxito. We already have a long route system, but that system's dysfunctions are obvious. And we didn't mention it here today, it wasn't the topic today, but we've talked about it a lot, haven't we? And if he has to get something back from this town, it's on these things, whether in society or in the least... los systems de protecion y en los ingresos mínimos, that precursor and revivor of capacity. That's what we have to get back. And in this sense what has been said, is not this true? And I want to end it in a second. In the first place, Mr. Urkullu, in taking his word, said that it is the finest aim of politics to create conditions, to make it a greater prosperity and happiness. And I quite agree with it; you know that happiness is a purpose in the enterprises I present, don't you? And for that, I think the consideration I have proposed to you before is very important. In order to create such conditions, to create conditions for happiness and for well-being, this people requires a new political status.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Together, Podemos-Nozzle Group, Mr. Soto, your word is yours. [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u51	Well, I do not know if, by echoing Mr Rico's optimism, our parliamentary group is convinced that this will be the case and that the full transfer will of course be completed and materialised because we believe that it cannot be otherwise. We believe that the commitments reached at different levels, in short, great yes, that the agreement is being implemented. And we also believe that the pronouncement of the parliamentary groups that have signed this transaction today will go in that direction and will encourage it to be made, of course, as soon as possible, because we do believe that the sooner the full transfer of the Vital Minimum Income is made. And Mr Barrio has already been told, sometimes the question of rigour and technique is put as an excuse to extend the times and more in matters of this caliber. We believe that political will also sometimes operates. And as far as political will is concerned, we believe that a very concrete political will has been expressed here, which is that the transfer must be comprehensive and urgently. Furthermore, we believe that this will be the case, because even your parliamentary group does not understand the opposite, that is, beyond the time and the rigour and guarantees in the process, it considers that the full transfer should be the case, then, well, I also call on you to join that pronouncement in this respect and to move from abstention to self. In any case, it seems to us right to say or assume that there are new forms of precariousness and also the existence of social sectors chronicled in poverty. It has been said by the spokesman for the PNV, and that, of course, the Basque Social Benefits System, including in this case the Minimum Vital Income, must respond in its reform to this which operates today and which is a scourge for our society. I did not understand very well the reference to the fact that, as regards the containment of poverty, this containment does not prevent the generation of wealth, that is, I did not understand very well why a system of social benefits would condition the generation of wealth of a society. If you explain it to me, I'd appreciate it, you'll probably have some reason to be. And of course all our will as a parliamentary group with regard to the reform of the GIR. And in this regard, I answer Mr Rico, responsibility and height of sight yes, of course, it is true that it is not the time to discuss this issue and that we are certainly not going to have time to do so here and in the appropriate procedure we will do so with the obvious discrepancies that will surely exist, but of course with the will to approach positions because we believe that it will be for the good of the citizenry. And if on the part of the parliamentary groups that support the Government, that will also be reciprocal, surely we will reach agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u52	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Well, beyond other debates, I said this in my first speech, we all agree that there is the Vital Minimum Income almost all, that the transfer is carried out and that this transfer is integrated into our Income Guarantee System. And that is what we have always defended by the Basque Socialists. We have been clear, there is no plan B and since it is not a pose it is what we have transferred from the first moment to the Government of Spain. And it is true that that transfer is being made to beg, yes, it is true, there are complications, we cannot deny it, but we are confident that we are going the right way. And it's not an act of faith. It is the conviction of seeing two governments with a rather contrasting will for dialogue and intention. And it is in this sense that we have worked and will continue to work to achieve the transfer and that it is also concrete in the integration of our Income Guarantee System. And look, we both believe in that and are so convinced that the project drafted by the Department of Labour and Employment contemplates this reality of Vital Minimum Income. I wanted to make two notes, some questions that have been moved, a point referring to the transfer of the economic regime from Social Security, because yes, the Vital Minimum Income depends on the ministry that bears that name, but also bears the name of Migrations (...) inclusion, inclusion, I repeat, inclusion, because if we go to the budget it has nothing to do with the budget of Social Security, but it goes against the general budgets. That is why I think it is only out of time to get certain debates together, because everything will have its time and as we know there is a timetable that should not be mixed. In one of the issues that Mr Soto has raised, my group is open to all the debates, but when we make a structural improvement we believe that it is important to apply a principle of reality, and I say this because some of the issues that are reflected in his amendment, which you have also commented here, I am referring, for example, to the issue of universal income or conditional income, which are old debates that have taken place in this Parliament. But I think it is good on the basis of that principle of reality to remember that in advanced societies income is also conditioned, very conditioned. In fact, there are countries that we conceive of as models that even condition it to ten years of legal and effective residence, for example. But it is that among these conditioned income is the Vital Minimum Income, that among the conditioned income is also the Vital Minimum Income. The project that has been developed by the department is committed to the government program and collects that more modern model, more... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... which has been developed by the department, is committed to the government program and collects that more modern, more agile and easier model for the collectors and the workers I have spoken to them. It comes with more intensity where there are minors, where there are older ones. And, by the way, it takes as reference the basic amount, precisely the one planned and agreement for the IMV. And from there, the complements are articulated. And it is not going to be the Socialist Group that goes into comparisons, because we think that what Pedro Sánchez's government has done has been courageous and, moreover, has been fixed in our system. But if you have all looked at the law you will see that the law complements better. And they know that, because I am sure that (...) also, with the third sector and, moreover, because there are many improvements that have been made in the last parliamentary term. I urge you not to give up all the work that has been done, also on the part of your groups, in the last parliamentary term. Don't despise it, because it's legitimate to have another model. And that's right, it's legitimate. But what is not logical is to be in one place and to the contrary. Those who have reasons for pride in living minimum income have more reasons for pride in GIR. The difference cannot be whether we are in one government or another. So, that's what we're going to settle for. And I believe that, among all of us, we can achieve that goal which, as I have told you before, I share that it is common. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u54	Thank you, Mr. Rico. There's no need to speak to the patriot of Euco, Lord Arianz. The President of the Misto team must not speak a word. Not even Mr. Barrio. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote EH. Collect, together Podemos Ankerz, the socialist Basques and the Middle Amendments signed by Euzists. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes are 74; the supporters are 67; the opposites are 1. Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u55	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Five point in theme list: "The Companion of the popular Euscal Group-as the parlamentary band of Céranos made, about the autonomy which every school chooses for the model of the school. To discuss and to decide once and for all." It's the caller's turn. And Mr. Gil has the word, representing the Basque Team Popular-Ciudadans, to present and defend the enterprise.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u56	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I want to send from here a loving memory and embrace to our compatriots on the island of La Palma, the Canary Island so affected by the volcanic eruption. Today we bring to this House a proposal so that each educational institution can choose whether it prefers a school day to leave or continue. This is exactly the object of our GNP. Therefore, first of all, I must say that I am not going to defend the continuous day here to the extreme, nor am I going to present it as a panacea in front of the departure day. I am sure that both alternatives, already very tested in all places, have detractors and defenders. But, as you know, I am a liberal and must defend people's decision-making capacity. And, therefore, we prefer that each educational centre choose the type of day it prefers. And that's what our proposal is. It is not, therefore, an initiative against the departure day, but in favour of the freedom of choice of each centre. And we believe it is necessary, because the current situation in Euskadi is that there is no choice. The starting day has been imposed by decree, by the Department of Education, on all educational establishments, without any more nuances, without any further consideration, without any studies, without taking into account the criteria of the families or the opinion of the teachers. In the previous course an exception was made, as everyone knows, for the pandemic. And, in fact, we are also on a continuous day now in September. But again we have returned to the steps, to the imposition of the continuous day for this course, beyond the month of July and September. In November of last year, the Education Commission appeared the platform for the continuous day in Euskadi, which gathers the feeling of thousands of parents and teachers in a movement that is expanding, which has more and more defenders in Euskadi, in the rest of Spain and in Europe. In order to avoid misunderstandings, it seems necessary for us to clarify what I mean when we talk about a continuous day, because I have noticed that, sometimes, different things are understood or the term is misinterpreted, and meanings are given that are not what we are trying to refer to. From our point of view, continuous work is nothing more than a reorganization of school hours, so that the five teaching hours are grouped into nine to two hours, in one tomorrow. And we located the dining room schedule after the same, after the two, allowing so, at the end of the classes... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... group in a nine-to-two hour, in a tomorrow hour. And we located the dining hours after them, after the two, so that at the end of the classes the parents who prefer it can take the children home to eat, but those who do not prefer it, for whatever reason, can leave it in school using the school dining room or the extra-school activities that may be in the afternoon, so that the time of departure does not change. That is, it is about expanding options. It's about everyone choosing how many hours and how they want the child to be in school. It is not, therefore, to force the children to leave at two o'clock – I say this because I have already heard someone who was... that I saw it like this – but only to give the option that children can eat at home without having to take four daily walks. And that families that can't or don't want to choose this option doesn't matter, doesn't change anything, they still have the same hours exactly, and there's no problem of conciliation. But, as we have already said, we accept that there are arguments for and against the two models. And that is why we really defend freedom of choice, that is, that each centre is organized. But this is really a topic that has some complexity. In addition to the psycho-pedagogical report, many other aspects must be taken into account: the economic impact of the dining rooms, political interests, the labour rights of teachers, the reconciliation of families, etc. Because from the psychopedagogical point of view, I'm not going to bore you by quoting studies, which are in one sense and in another, but I can summarize them by saying that experts don't find... the metaininvestigations that have been made do not find any studies... there is no relevant scientific evidence in favour of either model. Then, it seems that the subject is not very relevant from the psychopedagogical point of view. It seems that the conclusion that children give more, concentrate more and get less tired of the continuous day is moving forward. But this is common sense. It happens to all of us. In the morning we make more, afternoon classes cost more to students and teachers. And I've given class many times in the afternoon and I understand that they're heavier for everyone. It's logical that we're all more tired in the afternoon than in the morning. There are also data showing that autonomous communities with very high rates of day-to-day centres, such as Castile and León or Galicia, have better results from Euskadi in PISA reports. But I don't think it's very rigorous to conclude that it's due to the day model. Surely they are influencing many other factors. But there's the data. Freedom of choice does not mean causing inconvenience to anyone. Families who so desire, as I have already said, can continue to keep the child in school until the same time as before, without anyone being given any kind of problem, nor conciliation, nor anything like that, because after eating, extra-curricular activities can be carried out until the schedule is complete. And then one will ask himself, "And then where is the difference?" Well, in something important, in which each family can decide, it can decide whether to pick up the child before eating or after. And now you can't decide. That's the fundamental difference. And there are many families who can and would like to eat with the children, who prefer to give them another type of more homemade food, which is better to pick them up at two than at five or who simply don't want to spend more money in the school dining room. There are families, there are many families that happen to them. From the teachers' point of view, because there are also people who say that this continuous day is nothing more than a working pressure from teachers, which is not true, for teachers their schedule would not change. But they would have their teaching hours centered in the morning, so that they could better organize themselves by having at their disposal the afternoons to attend parents, their own training, meetings or teacher planning and preparation. And I stress the subject of training, because it is a subject that I am very concerned about and I think it is very important and that we will have to pay particular attention to. To his own formation. I think it is important that teachers spend more time than they spend on their own training. From the point of view of conciliation, which is a very important aspect to be taken into account. It should be borne in mind that in most families the two parents work and that very few of them can afford to pick up the child at school at one, bring him back at three, pick him up at five. Especially it is the most disadvantaged families who cannot stop working to make the four daily walks. With what they see set to leave, whether they like it or not, the children in the school dining room and to have to pay, by the way, the almost 100 euros per month for each of the children that cost them and not being able to enjoy them, if they wish, in the time of family food or in the time of rest. Therefore, we believe that they are the disadvantaged families, precisely, the most benefited with the ability to choose, so that they have more flexibility to share, to make their working hours compatible with school hours. It's just expanding options. Give people a choice. That everyone can adapt according to... you can design your life as you please. Then, let's keep in mind that with the winter break in Euskadi, children leave school almost at night and they have very little time left, very little capacity to play outdoors, to do other activities. I mean, we're imposing on them a schedule that doesn't respect their rest times or their leisure times. We understand that there are families, on the contrary, who cannot care for children at two in the afternoon, for most reasons of work. But, I repeat, there is no problem, because our proposal envisages the possibility that parents who wish or need to leave the child at school until the same time as now. On the other hand, it is sometimes said that not letting children eat at school is to remove the only varied food that many families can offer their children. On this subject we have seen that there is an important current of defense of the school dining rooms. Defending the school's dining rooms above defending the interests of the children. The answer is the same, eh. Anyone who wants can continue to leave the child to eat in school, but it will be optional. They won't necessarily have to leave it. And here arises one of the main problems, which is the defense of the whole business that lies behind the school dining rooms. And finally, we cannot help but remember the scandal of catering companies. That it is true that they would lose billing. Let us remember that in Euskadi, between 2003 and 2015, catering companies agreed the price of the menus and distributed the market of the school dining rooms, producing an extra cost to the users that was calculated at 70 million euros. It was the so-called "dinner cartel", which ended with a judgment of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country obliging the eight companies involved to pay the 18 million euros. I mean, school eateries, besides other things, are a big business. And we do not understand what is done or what certain parties do defending the private interests of these companies. And we do not understand that it is done by actively pressing to prevent the dismantling of this business, even if it is forcing families to accept a very relevant monthly expense, which in some cases increases their difficulties to reach the end of the month... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... this business, even if it is forcing families to accept a very relevant monthly expense, which in some cases increases their difficulties to reach the end of the month. But there is another aspect that we must take into account: the Basque. The defenders of compulsory euskera have expressed their concern on different occasions in this plenary and in the commissions, because in the recent period, in the pandemic, when the time of presence in the centre has been reduced, the levels of use of euskera have also been reduced, that is, when students are allowed to choose the language in which they communicate, the level of use of euskera is lowered and, of course, it is true, if there are students who decide to leave the two of the centre, many of them are freed from the use of compulsory euskera. And this does not seem acceptable to us, because it is better that no one can choose and that they have to speak Basque, whether they like it or not. Right? And how is this matter in other places? Euskadi is, together with Catalonia, the only autonomous community in Spain that still does not allow this mechanism of choice. We are therefore on the line in this matter, which would be a certain democratic step forward. The intensive day at ESO, Baccalaureate and University is implemented in virtually all public and concerted centers. In Galicia in 1988 the rules for the change of day were published, and today all public centres have a continuous day. He was followed by Canarias, Andalusia, Castilla y León, Castilla La Mancha, Extremadura, Murcia, Madrid, Asturias and the Valencian Community, La Rioja, Baleares, Cantabria, Navarra and Aragón. Only Euskadi and Catalonia are missing. Casually the two communities ruled by nationalism, casually. It is true that the regulations of these communities set different requirements. In the case of Aragon, for example, 70% of families must vote in favour of the day-to-day and, in addition, the centres must provide for additional activities free of charge outside school hours. But we have an interesting fact, and it is that no school that has approved the continuous day has asked in these communities to return to the day off. In Europe we have the case of Germany, where the continuous day is widely implemented. Therefore, our proposal is very clear: we propose that a binding consultation procedure be established for each public or concerted educational institution to decide freely the type of school day in children's and primary education. We also propose that in those centers that establish the continuous day model, the stay of the student who wishes to do so, the same calculation of hours as with the departure day, as well as guarantee the service of school dining and transport. And we also propose that a biannual evaluation and evaluation be carried out to know the degree of satisfaction of students, families and teachers with respect to the day model chosen by each centre. This is the real study that needs to be done, the one that is implanted and seen whether it works or not, and that goes beyond that it is already very approved in many other places, but... Finally, we also propose that, as soon as possible, a plan be drawn up for 25 pilot centres to start, for example, in which the continuous day model is established from the 2021-2022 course, as other communities have also begun, it is not necessary to do so for all, you can start with a small group of schools and see what happens. It is therefore a question of taking a step further in the defence of the autonomy of educational institutions; it is a question of giving families options to enable them to reconcile better; and it is a question of respecting the rest and leisure time of children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u57	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs Garde, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u58	Thank you, and good noon to everyone. We are celebrating the first common meeting of the legislature at the present day, and it is really a pleasure to us that the wants and challenges which lie in the field of education and education are on the table. Yes, it's very urgent to talk about education, especially when it gives constant signs of the exhausted education system of today and of the difference and segregation of time and time again. We all think that education requires a new stage, so yes, we challenge a great people. But in what we must begin to talk about the needs and roots of education, the speed of setting them up in the different classes of action, in the rare decotomy of division or continuity, or in the election of the school-houses, they are distorted by discussions that are real and necessary, and I dare say they do no favor to no one, either to the students, or to the workmen, or even to the families. Therefore we believe that the PP-Ciudados which we have in hand today is a bad proposition and a popularist. School classes or schools schedules can't be treated in a detailed and isolated manner, or voted at school. Because the chaos, challenge, and debate that is under schedules and hours, is beyond school schedules. And the most obvious example of this came to us in the time of pandemy, or remember what disorder there was in families at the first moments when the schools of the pandemia were shut up, the first of which was here in Aban. From one day to another the schools closed and hundreds of families met the vast problem of contactation. In fact, the older people who were the most vulnerable at that moment-that is to say, granddads when they were out of the equation. Derrepente, children in the house and no one in the house for custody. And while I'm talking about pandemy, and in a very short way, we're trying to express our gratitude and recognition to all the members and professionals of the education community who've been working on. But, yes, it's true, it's a real chaos. It's impossible for a lot of families to combine schools, schedules, and generally life hours. And this generally happens, because we have not enough proper support to maintain custody, and in most cases that women who have it continue to support life. But what lies behind all this is an inadequate model of care. The violent instability between productive and refractable labor, the state of cracks between men and women, and of course the abysses between the community which the system creates. In short, there are many and many elements behind this subject, and one of them is certainly school hours. But perhaps because we have patterns of order from another time. But we must be clear of an affair, the school hours, the welfare, the equality of all students... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... because we have patterns, but the hours of school... One thing must become clear to us. School hours must be the welfare, equality, personal development, educational and collective welfare of all the students, the educational needs to be the process of education and the centre. And nothing else if they don't have to answer it. We were saying, it is true, that many families have great difficulties in reconciling school, work and family life. And it is true that in order to correct these breaks and harmonize schedules and ensure models of care it is essential, because that, amortizing schedules, okay, but what cannot be done is that we place on the educational system the full responsibility of conciliation, because, despite being a fundamental agent, it is not up to it to answer this challenge unilaterally, less even by voting in each center which schedule families prefer. This isn't serious. It's not serious. Let us never lose sight of the fact that the hours and school days above all have to respond to the well-being, equality, personal, collective and educational development of the students stage by stage, it is the educational needs that have to be at the base and at the center of the days. And nothing more if they're not going to answer, first of all, to this. And everything else directly corresponds to public conciliation policies and many political decisions that are obviously not being taken. For all this, we think disputes ought to be more extensive. We need to talk about school processes and projects. We have to discuss the inclusive school, the hector, the autonomy of schools, and the mechanism of its execution. And about all this we must discuss long and deep. Plus, long and deep. And not only in this house, but outside these walls, with the agents, with the unions and the community of education. And that has an education agreement, a name and a last name. And in the original proposition, there's about the autonomy of schools because here, Mr. Gil, you've been talking about freedom all the time, but you were talking about autonomy in another proposal of your own. And this is for us in the business of education, the harpsichord is essential, the autonomy of schools. But the key is how and why we want it. We're discussing the autonomy of the schools, of course, but we're talking about autonomy and the right to decide, for the purpose of designing and realization of the educational communities. On the conditions required by their environment, and with its local communities. And inside it the part of the curriculum to be defined, the pedagogical methodology, the language projects, the training projects, and, of course, the model for organization in the school. And there are a few hours in it. But in the frame of a whole and logical education. Understand that one or two actions will always be the result of a process of education. So that we understand each other, Mr Gil, we talk about autonomy and the right to decide educational projects designed and developed by the educational communities themselves in each centre, in community and in collaboration with the agents of their environment, from the local, respecting the educational needs of the student at each stage and on the basis of all this to the day. But we can't start the house on the roof, we don't choose one type of day or another depending on the preferences of a group of families at a specific time, no. The day has to respond to an educational project and not the other way around: the first project and then the operation of the centre based on it. And that's what we did for the autonomy of the schools to correct us all. The student always sits in the centre, and when I say the students, they are all students, of course, considering the most vulnerable collective. Hence we associate the autonomy of the schools with the definition of the Sessions by inclusion. I mean, incluation is a process of recognizing and answering the various needs of the students. A process of study based on active division, based on cultural activities and communal activities, avoiding exposure in or out-of-the-states of education system. And lastly, two points of the rest of the party, with the amendments of the parties, and above all with the medium. It is evident that we cannot, or that we have but one medium of signing, consider the one point of our repentance. That's not a deal. And I think you know we've been working for the deal and initiation, too. But you're not prepared to discuss the autonomy of the schools, to discuss it and get it in a middle-class way. Again, the other proposition, as we have been proposing today, is drawn round the autonomy of the schools. That's why it's so important that the concept of autonomy should be properly placed and buried. That's one of them. And, on the other hand, we'll see what's left to agree on today's examination. For I beg your pardon, but it was in the same sense and more substantially agreed on a examination and accepted in this Chamber, which the Government left to nothing. So, what guarantee do we have today for exams? We'll see if we can't stop in a drawer again. So this, on the one hand, the Chamber's power (... level that shows ) and. And I'm done. The processes and complex debates we have to push in the education area are deep and complex. In fact, we have a great challenge if we really want to reform the education system, with strong and collective contracts, with the greatest consensus. If we want an independent education system that can help us overcome the challenges of this people in the end. He's a compatriot and an inclusive, not a smutrelist and not a diver. And that's what he'll be working on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u59	Thank you, Mrs Garde. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mrs. Gonzalez, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u60	Thank you, ma'am. Good afternoon, Congressmen, chief physician. Spaces, teaching and learning times are never ours, they never come to us, they happen and we have to learn to conquer them. This is an adaptation of the manifesto "For an education without walls" that I wanted to adapt to call the manifesto for an education without time. Today we debate on the proposal of the People-Citizens group on the autonomy of the centers so that they can decide the model of school day they want. We must design the scopes of this Chamber... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... on the proposal of the People-Citizens Group on the autonomy of the centres so that they can decide the model of school day they want. From this chamber, we must design the laws in order to withstand education society and community; the times of education and learning, time for education, time for treatment, time for inclutive teaching, time for treatment, time for dining-room, time for school activities without school, time for school, time for school, time for community life. And if we talk about time, we don't just talk about hours and we don't just talk about hours, so the coherent thing is to raise the debate of school times from an integral starting point and from the indisputable parameter of putting the best interests of the student and linking it to the educational and pedagogical project of the center. That is the premise from which part of my parliamentary group Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita. Now, in this post-pandemic era that has tarnished everything, that has upset even the social, educational and care bonds, we must not rush into binding consultations, immediate actions, pilot projects without a prior and well-informed assessment, let alone claudiate against partial interests or pressures. We must be able to go back to the discussion of the day of school, either in split or continuous work. The tendency is to study new ways of completing time, at school and in society, which is why we need data. When we talk about school time, we talk about a pedagogical project and there is no change that is worth unless it is based on a social agreement, that goes beyond strictly educational, that runs away from specific actions, that is based on educational and social equity, prioritizing the public, that enhances consensus and collective action, that is flexible enough to respond to the social diversity in which the Administration also assumes the governance of educational time and that it is based on data, evidence and systematic evaluation. The models, both in the rest of the state and in other countries of the European Union, find that these are necessary conditions to achieve an educational model of success. And, as a particular data, we see that in the best or most advanced educational countries, continual activity recedes. International agencies such as UNESCO point out that comprehensive education for children is directly associated with school time, but also with others in the social and family spheres. And everyone, everyone, everyone has to be taken into account. Therefore, as is happening in other countries and other communities, this debate should be considered as an open and responsible debate and seek to accommodate in the most scientific way possible, educational times to social dynamics, new educational paradigms and improved student performance. Together from the Podemos-Andureerda Unida, we believe that the RedMork Board of Education would have to hold that, in our public education system, guided by three fundamental principles. Lehenengoa. Educational inclusion. Ensure that the educational community decides that the day is a resource for improving the integral development and performance of all students. Bigarren scores. Social cohesion. A school time project should not be built leaving families unable to reconcile or without financial resources to pay for out-of-school activities outside the centre without alternative. Every student has a right to learn from an out-of-school activity. Eta hirugarrena. From the pedagogical quality. Ensure that the school organization of school times is based on innovation criteria and knowledge that offer us research from other fields, such as neuroscience, biology or psychology. And I'd like to mention the results of a report that guarantees these principles. The report is from the Jaume Bofill Foundation and is entitled "Three at home? The social and educational impact of the school day". I'm saying it very quickly. He says that "the evidence shows that compacting the day accentuates some problems that already exist and that it is particularly harmful to some social sectors." He also says that "the school day needs to be reconsidered for the benefit of children and young people, with new forms of organization of time in school and in society." Rethinking it means distinguishing between the working hours of the teacher and the hours of the educational activity, also looking for new formulas that satisfy the working interests of the teacher, but without conditioning that the working hours. It also says the study that "we must work on projects to integrate teaching and non-learning time, building networks that include local administrations with socio-educational agents of the environment and families". And, finally, he says that "the autonomy of the centre is fundamental, but that it should not be constrained by seeking a certain territorial balance with the socio-educational offer, with the aim of not generating inequalities in educational opportunities". All the studies that have been done in other territories seem to indicate that the solution to the problems of articulation of family and work educational times does not only change the schedules of children and adolescents unilaterally, but that another key piece of this puzzle, which above them fits the puzzle, is our time, the time of adults. It is by international experience that parents, parents, in order to give more and better time to our children, should have more and better time of families, have to develop politics for the reorganization of time; the other services to assist the family, the children, the hours of labour, and the care of the children, and the support of parents in education. And with all this, what we propose from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita is to study, to investigate the incidence of schedules, but in a broad sense, with a gender focus and considering the impact these schedules have on the academic performance of conciliation and co-responsibility in the use of school dining rooms and, above all... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... these schedules have on the academic performance in conciliation and co-responsibility in the use of school dining rooms and especially in the impact it has on children and families in vulnerable situations. For only with these facts can we make decisions in one sense or another. And as it's so integrated a subject, all the agencies involved in the euskal educational system, we're proposing that the Eucommena and the Esquimacy Himself contribute their contributions. We share with a few words from the expert (?) González Larrucea, who said that much has been debated and much remains to be discussed in Euskadi about the school day, but that this debate has not taken place in our community, but is taking place on the basis of the facts. And I think that the Eucabertist and the Basque Socialists can discuss the transaction we've arrived with today, simple or mythical, in order to make decisions about the work, that it's divided into detail, followed, or that a school community agrees with its pedagogical projects for any other purpose. Thank you, señor Passor, thank you, Mrs. Arriguega. Mr Gil, we do not believe that the initiative that they present defends freedom, as they argue in it, although we believe in law, yes, we believe in the right to decide from each centre. But these decisions require quantitative endorsements, as otherwise this freedom of decision may be shunned into privileged classes or with very specific interests, where a majority prevails over a vulnerable minority. However, there are some aspects of your initiative that I do find interesting, such as, for example, the issue of ensuring food and transport or periodic evaluation. As to the corrections of the gathering, Mrs. Garde, I must tell you that we agree with you, because we always put students into colleges, and that schools must be autonomy to design their language design, always based on the equality, inclusium, solidarity, participation, and the values of social cohesion. I'm sorry that I didn't make an agreement with EAJ in what both parties understand as a autonomy of schools, and that I didn't agree with middle-class corrections. And, well, just welcome to school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u62	Good morning. Today it is up to us to discuss a proposal originally presented by the People's Citizen group to defend the implementation of the continuous day in the classrooms. And I have told Mr Gil that he gives me the impression, and that is where I agree with Mrs Garde and Mrs González, that it is perhaps excessively reductionist to limit the whole problem in schools or in classrooms to whether or not the option of whether or not to opt for a continuous day or a departure day is established. There are many more aspects that need to be taken into account in making decisions in that regard. That is why we have defended and I would like Mrs González to make a serious study before making any decision. Because in the end we can fall into a situation where a certain part of the schools can feel... or the families of these centres, none regarding their real problems, there are many more problems than the day off unfortunately in the classrooms of the Basque schools. The request was made in this Parliament by a platform a few months ago in the Committee on Education. Fundamentally at that time, the reasons were based on criteria for reconciling work and family life, taking into account the pandemic situation that we were already living at that time. And it is true that at present there are several autonomous communities that have in one way or another authorized the establishment of the continuous day in certain centers, although with different characteristics between them. On the other hand, Euskadi and Catalonia are two communities that have strongly opposed the establishment of this continuous day for fundamentally pedagogical reasons, they explain, based on the opinion of expert people, because, as Mr Gil said, there are conflicting opinions according to who is asked. And considering that this schedule facilitates equal opportunities between students, the current one I mean, in addition to greater equity. The need for family reconciliation has also been taken into account. The Education Adviser, Mr Bildarratz, says that the departure day gives more options to families with more problems, the most vulnerable. Understanding that families with more resources can give their children more options in the afternoons, but there are parents who can't afford extracurricular payments or simply have work problems due to lack of employment. The school in this sense operates as a point of equity, and we understand that a priori the departure day is a more just system. In the case of compulsory secondary school and baccalaureate, the starting day is already implemented in almost all public and concerted centres, and in almost all autonomous communities. In the centres of Children's and Primary Education there are more differences and are Euskadi and Catalonia the only ones in which the intensive day has not been achieved so far. The reality of the problem that arose during the pandemic is likely to have fewer reasons at this time, when it is already ending, fortunately, the worst of the pandemic. In any case, at present the internal rules of Education in the Basque case would prevent the implementation of this day. The Socialists respect this criterion, but as is known, it is true that the position of the Socialist Party at national level is favourable for the possible application of this continuous day after debate in each centre within the educational community, in which I give Mrs Garde the reason, there is more to talk about than simply whether there is a day off or a day off. So what comes to pick up our amendment is in short... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... The reason for Mrs Garde is to talk about more things than, simply, whether there is a departure day or a continuous day. Therefore, what comes to our amendment is, in short, to maintain the current situation, but opening a period of reflection, diagnosis or serious study on the possibility of establishing such a day, provided that, in any case, there is a very clear majority within the school community. We understand the reasons that, from the point of view of the reconciliation of the families, at least some of them, can justify this request, but, of course, we also understand the pedagogical reasons posed by the department. We also believe that it is necessary to establish that the choice between continuous or part-time work in schools sometimes seems to be a question of who is asked. Above all, bearing in mind that so far there has been no conclusive study that bets in a sharp manner on either of the two models, for pedagogical reasons. And that's why there's a diversity of opinions. And those of us who, of course, Mr Gil, have doubts as to whether or not this day is appropriate are neither furious nationalists nor defenders of corrupt companies. Neither. In short, although schools play a basic role in reconciling work and family life, parents and mothers, it is true, it is also true that schools are not designed for that or that is their main function. Educational institutions play an important role in conciliation, but that is not their goal. Putting schools at the centre of the conciliation debate shows, unfortunately, that many real reconciliation policies are still lacking in this society. In any case, the Basque Socialists argue that a debate on this matter can be opened in the educational centres, and that, once all its aspects have been analysed, they can be studied by the Department of Education, after analysis of the situation, which is what we have agreed with Mrs González, representative of Podemos. A serious study that establishes the pros and cons of this situation and all the resulting ones. We do not share the proposal you put forward in the amendment that a pilot experiment should already be established, without any prior study of the continuous day in the centres that have requested it. You must continue until there are serious studies. But what we do believe, and in that we do agree with you, is that this debate must be opened, but not just the debate on whether there is a day to go or a day to go. A global debate on public schools and the Basque education system, which I hope will also be used to start talking about this and many other issues as the occasion for the implementation of the new education law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u63	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arriganaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Chief of Parliament. President of the Department, members of the legislature, to all who are good at noon. This is not an attempt against the divided activity, but for the sake of freedom. That's what Popular-Ciudados used to say in his original initiative. And also he said in the same initiative, that the continued practice may have several advantages in comparison with the split. But others defend the benefit of the example of a fragmentary industry, both for the students and for the majority of families, as if it were a mere caprice to the chief physician or to the section. And besides, the PP-Ciudadnos ended his justification by saying that he is an initiative for freedom, avoiding the pedagogical discussion. And avoiding the pedagogical discussion, as we are a member of the Board of Education, we cannot at least see the pedagogical discussion in such matters. Then he mentioned it when he spoke, but in the original initiative it was said in justification. And our team defends freedom now and always. We defend the freedom that families have to choose their center, the freedom to choose a linguistic pattern. But these freedoms, or all these attitudes we defend, are decisions or attitudes of profound reflection. And we at least believe that this initiative, or the initiative introduced by PP-Ciudadnos in the community of education, in the whole, not only in the students and families, has not studied the impact it can have. The experts predict that they can produce different effects. There are some very serious ones that can be just. Mr. Gil said, "Poco guiroso" on his word. Pus, démosle, démosle rigor. We think it's a matter of caution. Freedom is, but there must be pedagogical discussion, as well as that of cohesion of society. And this is not a proposition in the original initiative. Thus, as has been shown, the Socialists, the Eucus patriots, and together with Podemos-Nodemo, have agreed to a halfway correction. And now, in our opinion, the answer was best answered in order to maintain this matter. We think we're responsible for agreeing with this agreement. Because, as I said, beyond headlines that, at first, can sound very attractive to us. Me too, as a mother. We understand that more and more arguments are in favour of maintaining the starting day than giving the option of establishing the continuous day without a prior analysis, without rigour, without knowing what effects it could have. According to the platform "In favor of the continuous day", the educational staff that defends the continuous day considers that it allows the student to organize better to study and do other activities. And this really can sound very interesting. But it has also come to be ensured, and Mr Gil has done so here today, that the starting day is defended, above all, or, for example, among other things, so that catering companies do not earn less. And this debate deserves to deepen much more and frivolize less. And I hope I have a chance... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... so that catering companies won no less. And this debate deserves to deepen much more and frivolize less, and I hope to have an opportunity to delve into the dining area later, if I have time. In May 2021, a survey involving a total of 10,224 persons was published, including parents, pupils and teachers, indicating that 94.7 of those 10,224 persons were in favour of a continuous day in Basque schools. Again, 10,000 people, including students, families and teachers. Is that a lot? Is that a little bit? We must consider this year's learning that students are only 366.697, only students. Add to this the teaching, the parents, and the other and the operating. So we can say it's the request of a minority. And yet it is far beyond the demand of a minority, for this request can be just as well. But what is our responsibility? Our responsibility is that one platform requires another type of work, the majority of education community demands a request which is not accepted. And this change may have an extraordinary influence on the students and families, more accurately and indirectly with other agents or collective persons. This is a rather important subject, which must be considered the effect of this supposed change in the departments, or with other agents, in co-workers. We believe that knowing the result is an advance step, so that a school can make such a decision as this, for the best decision with the necessary information can be made. And has any one observed these changes in general, or in a direct manner? Hath it been considered that beyond the power of arranging some families better, or of bringing their children more time? We don't think that we should discuss action in an isolated manner, we agree with Mrs Garde there. Our vogues have an influence here, and this dispute leads us beyond the pedagogical region, it also penetrates into the discussion of the confederation, and this is much more extensive. It's not easy. The advisor Bildarratz himself explained, speaking of the departure day, that the department's greatest concern is the student, that there are studies and that there have been talks with specialists, that the topic has been analyzed and that they advise that the day is gone and that, in addition, he understands the department that the school also plays a role of equity, that means that outside the center, those who have the most problems outside the center, the students, the students who suffer the most and who have the least resources, that the school has to give them a greater balance, and that it is understood that the departure day provides greater resources and that imbalance to all these families, and that it also enables a greater reconciliation to the family in general. That there will be exceptions. But that, in general, is the case. And also said councilman Bildarratz that the student, the student, who is the north of this department and that the specialists say that an important element is that the day is gone. Eta gure taldeak ha brererets si egiten du. Hau Jaurlaritzaren partitik, bathe seraten due bestelako eagileek? Eigek berak adriazi du gaur eguneko testuinguruua ez de la egokiena eztabaida honetarako, sakona eta lasaia izan beharko litzatekeela. Heyge argues that it should be established within the framework of a pedagogical and scientific analysis, and that otherwise it would only generate controversy and division between families. Therefore, Mr Gil, pedagogical analysis is indispensable in this matter. In the Basque School, all the schools of the First Education have a divided field, but schools are not children's parking lot, schools are a point of equity. The Basque schools are developing very interesting pedagogical projects during those afternoon sessions. And I can tell you a lot, but, as I'm just in time, I'll only mention one at this point, and that's a bellows, a program known as Hauspo. And what is it? Well, the program that combines the innovations and strategic stages of development in education, so that our system can continue to advance towards equity and excellence. And here, too, we develop a project to penetrate into the autonomy of the schools, to improve the cultivation of the pedagogical and curriculum, and the management of the personal and economics, the methods of the professors and the results of the students. All this agrees with our speech in your speech here, and we have it in our Hausspe. However, each school must adapt to its surroundings and the characteristics of the education community the innovations it wants to establish, so that these innovations may contribute usefully in the course of the education of all students. "No mucho más que un foamiños el centro." The objective of Hauspoa is to make the current framework more flexible to facilitate the organization of educational activities and school time in order to improve the quality of education in order to promote the educational success of all pupils. Veo que me queda poco tempo, and I'd like to make a reflection around the dining rooms. You can't turbate, and now we know that school restaurants are vital spaces inside the school. The dining-room is a powerful instrument of education, and the nourishment of healthy habits, and the education of hygiene, which encourages and animates the leisure activities of children in their intercourse or social development among other good things. And the school dining room must be a complementary educational tool, which it is, which has very important objectives, but which makes it optional, Mr Gil, can be very dangerous, because it can have a lot of negative consequences for a collective, for students, for students, for the most vulnerable in this case, and we have also seen it happen in a pandemic. "En vista de todas statuses y que me queda poco tempoe," we think we ought to take a more and a wider way of arguing. That the leading initiative wasn't going to do it... that he could not contain it, so that this half-direction which we have signed today between the three groups gives the best answer... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... and therefore this intermediate correction, which we have now signed between three groups, gives the best answer. And I'd like to make an invitation to the Basque Country. When they hear his speech, they think we can do one at certain points. To talk about the autonomy of the students in the second part or in our speech, but it's in our third point of action. So I invite you to vote on the side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing in responses, the representative of the popular team of Basques has the word. Mr. Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u66	Thank you, Madam President. I listened very carefully, I had a lot of interest in knowing the arguments that each of the groups was going to make about it, I listened very carefully. The truth that I have been a little disappointed, I have not found any arguments against the centers being able to decide, I say this because, Mr Pastor, that no, that I have not defended here the departure day or the continuous day, that is not that, is that that is another different presentation, was defending freedom for each center to choose what it considers appropriate. But I have found that there are some things we all agree on, which I am very pleased about. The first of them we all agree, I understand, to put the child in the centre and that it is the interests of the child that inspire any modification. Great. We all agree on this. We all also agree to defend, and I am very pleased about this, the autonomy of the centres. But, of course, on that subject it seems no longer, autonomy of the centers yes, but for this not. Well, it's the same, we agree to defend the autonomy of the centers. We also agree that this issue should not pose any problems for families who decide to bet on the day off. Good. Having said that, I note that, in the end, I am going to put aside Mrs Garde's disqualifications calling the proposal populist, and things like that, because I think they do not bring anything and are not positive. It seems to me that when we are talking about the autonomy of the centre, there is no problem that this is within the autonomy of the centre and, therefore, agree, if the centre must have autonomy to vote for its educational project, I do not say that this is voted separately, let us put this within the educational project and that each centre can decide whether to use a day or another within its educational project. This is not possible today. Today the departure day is mandatory. Repeat. Therefore, here with the current situation what is being defended there is no autonomy of real centers on, this aspect, uh, on others we will discuss it another day that the thing is more complex. Mrs Gonzalez, I have a feeling that we have talked about different continuous days. That is why, at the beginning of my speech, I tried to explain what I wanted to say on a continuous basis. But in the continuous day that we raise, it is not true that this privileges any privileged class. The other way around. Just try to give flexibility so that each family adapts this issue to their own needs. And, well, it is true that there are many problems in educational institutions, and it is true that we must study them all, but now we are specifically on this subject, Mr Pastor, we are not talking about others. I mean, that's to say no to this, because there are many other problems in schools, already, and what, yes, of course there are many problems and we have to solve them. Of course, we are talking about that "if the continuous day is to be established there can be families that are not united", said the Pastor, yes, yes, of course, and, if not, also, because right now there are also families that are not united, families that would want a continuous day, that gives them no regard, that we do not care, that their needs do not count for anything, and that we wanted to bring here today their voice. Mr. Pastor has told us that the SOE supports the continuous day. Well, that's consistent, Mr. Pastor. And that you consider that a debate should be opened on this matter. Well, well, let's do all the debates you want, this we were doing seemed to me, to debate, but in any case, if you think you have to do more studies, as you have defended, etcetera, well, first, there are real experiences, there is no need (...), real experiences throughout Spain. But, of course, since it's Spain, we don't want to look at what's going on there anyway. It's the same, here we've also had many centers with a continuous day in the pandemic. If we can see what happened. And we can see what the consequences have been. And we've seen and we can also ask people how they've seen it. But, Mrs Arrizabalaga, I am not avoiding the psychopedagogical debate, at all, what I did not want is to get into the technicalities of what some experts think and who others think, because there is indeed everything and we could bore the issue. What we do believe is that the psychopedagogical debate is not conclusive. That is, there are no very clear conclusions. This does not mean that more studies are conclusive, it means that, perhaps, it is not the most important factor in this regard. Finally, in any case, I believe that what we are doing is kicking the ball forward in order not to decide, in order to maintain the position we already had, and this indeed shows a certain inability to adapt to the needs of today's society and to respond to the demands of families today. I think we need a much more flexible management, much more dynamic, much more adapted to the demands of society. No more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u67	Thank you, Mr. Gil. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs Garde, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u68	Thank you. A ver, es que, I don't know how we understood each other today's discussion, but I think it was different. It was also evident that every man's repentances had been made and introduced to him, but, well, I'd like to ask you to focus on the discussions we give today in education. Because in education community, in general, the priority is at this moment no longer a question of the type of action. Quu va, they are now forming and explaining the preceding processes in education, by a popular convention, and by a new law. That's for starters. But, anyway, if we have to talk about hours and activities, we'll have to talk about the surveillance patterns and the crowd. [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ... That's for starters. But if we are to speak of hours and activities, we must speak of examples of care, and of the division of the care and support of life in our society; we must speak of subjection. And this discussion is not only applicable to the field of education. There are multiple factors in the heart of that challenge. Or, what do you want me to do, fix the Internet and the custody distribution deal with the school hours? Is that your plan? Well, I'm sorry, but you're having a party. So we have to be clear. The discussions are more profound and more extensive. And, of course, it's not going to be any relief to the vote about college. And if it be necessary to speak of the autonomy and the rights of the schools, it must be in the most pedagogical frames, i.e. to perform around the projects of education. And watch out, it's essential that the discussions which we encourage in education should be appropriate, in the need of modern education. For, as PP-Ciudados has done, it is dangerous. And if you are to mention freedom in such enterprises, please remember that in our country there will be no freedom until there is no equality of choice. And in their way, education is a harpsichord, but not with the course you've marked out. For, beware, in many cases, equity ends at the doors of the schools, and, beyond that, we have not enough conditions to guarantee equality. So the schools must be sure of equality. And, well, it's a pity, yes, sign the media... that there is no condition for signing it. And I'd like to say a couple of things. One, we tried, and you know, but you weren't ready to pick up our one point or talk about it. And,event, if that doesn't get it, and it's not right for me... and it's not recorded, so we can't either make a deal or sign it. When the autonomy affair of our schools is on the table, it gets the same as PP-Ciudadans, to decide the autonomy. For this reason it was important for us to speak of autonomy to-day, but in suitable terms: the autonomy schools for what. How? With suitable intermediate and mechanism. And for what? So we can develop and start our own education projects. To us, it was this discussion today, and not to be disturbed by one or the other. Besides, that's not a priority at the moment of education for us. So, well, that. And two. You've agreed to complete a exam today. And I'm sorry, but... And I have said, with the same manner, and I should say it was still more substantial, a study to harmonize the schedules of work and school in this chamber where it was agreed in 2018. And we planned to get it back, and you didn't. What do we understand? That the agreement agreed on in this Chamber is of no value? And I can understand this attitude from EAJ-PSE, which you didn't sign in 2018, and that wasn't necessary to investigate. Not two years ago, but well. Or three. Well, well. But from Podemos, the agreement you have received, the signed ones, are of no use? Besides, this offer was more substantial. Beyond the education community were the agents of equality, of women's rights, of aldunities, of social operatings, of Eudel... Well, a bigger deal. And to make such an inquiry, and to talk about means of consistency, there are other things that need to be done. And well. But I mean, yes, we've ordered a vote at points. And in the first two points, we will vote against it, because in it you already take part in a particular kind of practice, and we believe, as has been shown, that the practice is necessarily connected with the project of education. And we'll say yes to the study, because the results will certainly be interesting. And sin más. Finally, what I said. There's a great challenge in education ahead of us. And if we really want to restore the education system, it must be with strong and collective contracts, and with the greatest consensus, and we must talk about everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u69	Thank you, Mrs Garde. Together the representative of the Podemos Ankerz, Mrs. González, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u70	Mr. Gil, I was delighted when you started your speech this morning saying, "I'm liberal," because, well, I thought I was the only one who had noticed, but, well, when I said that, it's like, "here I am." I wanted to comment on some of the things you said earlier in your speech. As a matter of fact, the continuous day is nothing more than a reorganization of the schedule. Well, I think it's a lot more than a schedule reorganisation. And I agree with you that you also have... You said, "You have a certain complexity." It's very complex. I believe that throughout the exhibition I have given a lot of data and aspects that have to be considered that say it is extremely complex. He also commented that there were studies for and against. There's a lot of them. Even some false ones, because the deeper one gets into a subject, the more they find, the more that, the fake news, but in this case in research on the topic of the intensive day or the departure day. And almost all, moreover, are conditioned by pressure lobbies. And they're on top of a lot of privileged lobbies. When we talked about privileged classes and privileged groups, it is true that sometimes there are privileged minorities who, with their votes, cover vulnerable minorities. He also spoke of the defense of school dining above the defense of children. I don't understand that part very well. Yes, it is true that, I agree with you, school dining has been and is a business. And we all know that, and we've lived it. But we also consider it to be a fundamental service. We bet that the school dining rooms, the school dining room time is an educational time, a pedagogical time and, besides, that what is consumed in the school dining room is also an educational time. We were talking about the euskera. I was commenting before the Euskera, no. We live in a community in which we have two official languages. Two official languages. The school, the school, and especially the public school, Euskalduniza. What does that mean? That boys and girls feel like they belong to the community... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ...the school, and especially the public school, Euskalduniza. What does that mean? That boys and girls feel like they belong to the community where they live. And school time is a very valuable time for linguistic immersion, and well, we were talking about extracurriculars the same thing. As far as Mrs Garde was concerned, it is true that the study of the last parliamentary term I agree with, I agree with you, that it is a pity that it was not done, it is a pity that it was not done, and in this case I appeal here also to the Government, which had the obligation to do that study and that it was not done and that this study that we agreed today we will follow up on it so that it will really be put on the table. Pastor commented on the future Education Act. Well, because there's so much noise, we're going to let it go and we're going to see if that future Education Act has anything to do with everything that we put in the groups here about school hours and the hours of life and conciliation and the hours of adults and girls and boys. I'm going to end up like I started, with the manifesto for a barrier-free education. "We learn from life. Education is a time and a place for negotiation. It's an open door, but it's also a clock that doesn't mark the hours, which allows you to escape from the system's endogamy and inhabits that path and that less transited time. The spaces, the times of teaching and learning are never ours, they are given to us, they happen and we have to learn to conquer them." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. The Socialist Basque mustn't speak a word. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arriganaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u72	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Of course we defend the autonomy of the centers, Mr Gil, Garde andrea. And if you have followed many of the debates that have taken place over the past year, you will have heard me repeat it over and over again. And so is Councilman Bildarratz. But, you proposed things very, very... inconcretions, inconcretions that without having any idea what effects they could have, because as you yourself have said, they are undefined. Then, as you will understand, a point formulated in this way, so general, without a structured approach and without taking into account I repeat the needs of the student and the consequences that such a decision could have, above all, for that most vulnerable student, does not seem to us to be at all responsible. So, we talk about what goes first, study or set up a day. We think the studio has to go first, because that's rigorous and that's responsible. And this is putting the student in the center. Don't you think it makes more sense than I just told you, that is, to draw up that study, to detect what the real incidence is and then to bet, or at least that the centers have the opportunity to bet on one or the other? But knowing what conditions have to the academic performance in terms of reconciliation and co-responsibility with a gender approach and in the use of school canteens, the possible impact on vulnerable families. There's your answer, Mr. Gil. Don't you think it's better that the centers within that autonomy, their autonomy, make the most appropriate decision based on what this study concludes? And above all, he talked about exceptionalities, he talked about the exceptionality of Euskadi and Catalonia within Spain. Euskadi also has that exceptionality, for example, as regards the system of networks, concertation, public network, concerted network, and to you that theme has never bothered you, it has never posed a problem, because each community has the specificities that it has and acts accordingly to its reality and the reality in Euskadi is what it is. And that is why we act in this way, always caring responsibly. It would make no sense, no sense, and this too Garde andreari weretzunez huta ere, to analyze this matter without having the conclusions, only because the centers have that power to be autonomous, it does not make any sense. That is precisely putting the student in the centre, working, evaluating and analysing the consequences of the actions according to the needs of the student and not on the basis of the autonomy per se of the centers, which have it, of course, but we must first think about what conditions he may have. So your corrections, Mrs. Garde, yes, there was no place in our middle course. It wasn't because we didn't try, but they were contradictions. And I think even the PP-Ciudados did something like that, don't they? What comes first, autonomy or investigation? And that was our discussion, or where we put it, or what we put it on, because we put more force on it. I think we've focused on that. But it was difficult, because the two positions opposed to each other. And it can't be this time. You said you'd protect the third point, and I'm really glad you did. Well, yeah. And we need to talk about this and a lot of other things. We'll talk to each other and talk to each other, and we need to talk to each other. Because it must be an exemplary education, because it must be a constructive discussion, a multitude, and the end of the bargain. We have to be a pattern. Those are the values we wish to transmit to our society, and so we must be models. And the future of our country deserves this effort and deserves an education agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u73	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arriega. Now that the discussion is over, we'll put it into the vote, the original text of the other proposition as the original of the Basque Groups of populars-Ciudadans. [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]] Madam. Now that the discussion is over, we'll put it into the vote, the original text of the other proposition as the original of the Basque Groups of populars-Ciudadans. After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 70; votes given, 72; in favor 6; the opponents, 66; Absences, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u74	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the entire EH Collect Group correction. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly, 70; the votes given, 72; the supporters 27; the opponents of the enemy, 45; abstaining, 0; white, 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u75	So it's not accepted. Next, we'll vote together with Podemos-Nozzerzka, Eukal Sozialists and Eucabertists. Ordered on points, as there is no problem, 1st. And we vote number two, then number three. 1st And we vote number two. After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 69; votes given, 71; supporters 45; opponents 26; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u76	So, we're keeping our point number one and number two. Next, we vote for number three. After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 70; the votes given, 72; the supporters of 66; the contrary, 6. Absence, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u77	So he's accepted 3. the point. Number of points in theme list: "Punciation of the parlamentary bands, of the revelations of new infections, and of the creation of the subjugation of the pandemies of the whole world. Discipline and final resolution. On the turn of the proposed team, Mrs. Ubera, representative of the EH Collect group, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u78	I left where I left off. Before we begin with the subject, we would like to communicate our solidarity with the people of Palma, who have been plunged in another emergency after their departure from an emergency. And I'm sure that all of you here feel the same, and even if they need the law, we'll be willing to help you. For at such moments words are of little use. From an emergency to another emergency. Yesterday at the Board of Health, Mr Jonan Fernández told us, about what had happened, that a deep thought must be made. A thought, honestly speaking, of all fields, of what we have learned in the succeeding generations. And we agreed with that idea, and we told Mr. Fernández yesterday that we agreed with that idea. That's what we've been asking for, over and over again. Not only to contribute to the succeeding generations, but to improve the lives of all of us now. In order to be a healthy and balanced society, it is necessary to reflect upon it, and to make a profound examination about the measures taken in the palace, and to examine every field, and to examine every eye. To conclude, and, after these consequences, to modify public policy after instruction. Because it's not enough to say that we've learned it. It is true that we have studied in actions, in enterprises. If you continue to do the same, there is little to be learned. Because SARS is here to stop the virus. Another thing is how it stays between us, isn't it? That's how he'll get it. We do not yet know whether we shall have local and precise occurrences, or whether we shall have small waves, or become diseases like flu. It seems as if, from the results of our recent investigations, there are many possibilities of becoming in a kind of fluctuary disease. But whatever it is, we think it's time. At the moment when you have to listen to all the people's attentions in this house, the representatives of all the citizens, the organization of the EAE, the first institution, to create a space for that purpose, don't you think? A design to face the scene of new infections, and the pandemy of the whole, in order to produce a space of labour in a shared manner. How many times, Mrs. Appledui, huh? How often, during the pandemonium, we have heard and heard, had it worked in a manner, and in the multiplicity of this society, it would have been better for all of us. But, unfortunately, we haven't shown capacity for that. We could open a great opportunity for getting rid of our previous inertia and conduct and exercise, to start adapting our institutions to new structures and society. Besides, from the hands of the scholars and from the starting point of their work. Because we can't always start from scratch. It's important that you consider what you've done with short, medium and long-term gaze, but above all, with long-term eyes. In the transmitation of the law for the administration of COVID-19, in the occurrence of Mr. Artagoti, we learned... [[End of tape 42]] [[Begin of tape 43]] ... with long eyes. In the tramitation of the law for the administration of COVID-19, in the occurrence of Mr. Artagoti, we learned that several of the professionals of Public Health and Osarmen had performed an exercise, a document had been sketched, and that it was finished in December 2019. And in it, I don't know whether you've been able to read this document, because in it the protocols to face new diseases were studied, organized, and working modes, because they saw there was a necessity to renew, to adapt the structure, to change the protocols. But as it was not received in this document, unfortunately, it had not been used in the pandema, it had not been taken into account. And even if that were few, the structures we have, the professionals of the Public Health, have been excluded. And it is not because we say it is not because EH Collect says it is not Rebeka Uça, but that which has been transmitted to us by different professionals of these structures. Returning to the report. What I said before, the report is very good, I don't know if you've had the chance to read it, but it has to be over because it's unfinished, and if we're going to turn it from a draft once and for all, we're gonna have to give it a little shove. We ought also to cure him, and to add what we have learned in the course of these months. There's been a lot of wounds this year and a half, I'm sure we've all had a bad time. Many wounds have been wounded in so many professionals and deeds that we do not want to enter on purpose or on purpose, I do not wish to enter the discussion today, but it is time to heal the wounds and make them all work in the same way. And besides the structure we have in the Public Health, with the various departments of society, what they have hitherto done, to value and make use of. Lastly, it is in the hands of all of us, from the experience we have been able to pursue, or from the experience we have been able to accomplish, from our practice to the future, and hence it requires that we should do our household work in order to do the appearances of new infections, and to prevent the pandemies of the whole. We have great experience professionals. These professionals are in the Administration, they're in the Medical Department, they're in the Osar. We have communities with different knowledge. We have structure that has been building since 1996, due to the 312/1996 Decree. It's related to the state-wide alerts and the center of the emergency polls and even to Europe. But the pandema put us in front of the mirror and showed us that we have to improve. Even at this moment, OMS insists that the countries should be prepared. The only view is that the countries which have preceded this panic and before the MIT and SARS virus have been the most successful in facing the pandemia. So now it's time to prepare for the future. And in front of that, what do we do? What do we do? I know you're going to tell me that the PR bill will come, maybe you won't tell me that, I'm a lawyer. But the exercise we propose to-day is to attain the scheme of a new infection, and to prevent the pandemies of the whole. Is it possible that he can connect or have something to do with that project of the Public Medical Laws? Yes, of course. But the exercise we plan may be helpful, it may be supplemented with the law of Public Health. It is not the same thing, but two things are different, and even the cultivation of which we were able to defend ourselves may help to enrich the law, and to search out the settlements. For it is one thing, as I have said, the Public Health; and another is the design of resisting the apparitions of new Diseases, and of resisting the whole pandemies? That's what he told me and reminded me of it in the transfer of the law to handle COVID-19, Mr. Rico reminded me of that. In the tramitation of the law for managing COVID-19a, when we introduced corrections, you told us that what we planned was a plan to face symptoms of infection and anti-determism, and that we were only to focus on COVID-19 and CID-19. That's what you insisted on. And what we were planning, we were reminded that it wasn't the Law of Public Health, although we introduced multiple elements in order to strengthen the Public Health, to strengthen the Constructions of Public Health. Now we might have brought the plan of our billies, because we have done it; but we had rather choose to choose another way, and to have the means of doing it among us all. By rejecting the prospect of the game, because the emergency shows us that things are going better together, not only in the case of emergency, but especially in the case of emergency, must be generally, and especially in the case of emergency. It's efficiency, speed, flexibility that we have to work on. Of course, the value of experience, the transfernce of knowledge, and the strength of the community. To justify the proposal to-day, in order to defend it, we can either do or do what has happened throughout the whole pandemy, but we are not going to enter into it. Unfortunately, because we have discussed too much, and haven't had space to share and build proposals with ease, although we've tried to do it. Even according to scientific evidence, the decisions can be different, and the views differ. It's a pragmatic way of making steps in a new government model... [[End of tape 43.]] [[Begin of tape 44.]] ... for they may be different, and their views differ. In order to take steps in the new government model, it is a pragmatic method with the proposal to-day and to-day; an initiative in passing from purely communative politics to political work. For the government, using other words, it may be a way of sharing responsibilities and sharing browns, so let each one call it what he likes. But as they have begun in all other countries, so we must prepare for new infections, and for the support of all kinds of pandemies. Because it's asking to change the workings of the health services we're working for, the social services, the sociomatic fields, the other health management strategies, the alert systems, etc. And there, and that, if we all do it together, then that's better. Better. And that's what we plan for today-only a democratic exercise.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u79	... [[Microphone Off spoke]] I'm on my way. Passing over the teams who were running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Cyans, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief physician, good morning to all. Congressmen, good morning. The left-handed patriot brings us a specific proposal to the legislature, directly to the new disease... A proposal about new infections in the Parliament for a committee. We saw it convenient to introduce our correction, with certain points, considering that we have been able to reflect on it during this time of time. And we know what it's supposed to be, what things or things we need to improve, and that's why we think of the Basque and Medical Department and Osaparts, because their resources are specific. We're on our way to normal anxiety. And that's what the data attests to. But, no doubt, we are also all aware that we are going to a scenario of coexistence with the virus. And we do consider that in that scenario, obviously, there is still a need to move forward in vaccination, to reach 99... 90 % of the vaccinated population; reducing hospital pressure and maintaining the downward trend in the number of contagions. Undoubtedly, there may also be some uncertainties in the scenario that moves towards normality, but we all hope that the experts and scientists working on these issues will see a horizon, of course, hopeful, in the sense that, well, they do not have the virulence of... that new waves or new outbreaks of the previous ones appear, especially because the majority of the population may be vaccinated. It is true that 130 cases were reported yesterday. We have to say that yes, in the ranking of the contagions at the national level, we remain at the top, that is, we continue to lead those lists with the people most infected compared to the rest of the autonomous communities, even if that figure goes down. And the incidence table accumulated yesterday also, at 14 days, was set at 109. In 109. The dead of the last week, although they have descended into 15 people, are 21. And we do consider that it is a number, obviously, that is still excessive. And, obviously, we must regret any victim there is in relation to this virus and this pandemic. And the people who are admitted to the ICU yesterday in the figure we also met were... Right now it's 49. At the moment, we think it's important to proceed in the insertion process. We also think that the pressure in the hospital must be increased. And even if we go downstairs with the figures of infection, at the same time, we think it's important. Some issues raised by the EH Bildu group seem to us to be interesting in their initiative, especially those contained in the Explanatory Memorandum. And we can agree on the objectives, such as preventing new diseases, dealing with outbreaks of emerging infectious diseases, reforming the health structures of Osakidetza, and working with bodies of existing scientific experts. But it is true that we do not consider it necessary to have a committee of study, because we understand that there are sufficient tools, that there are many of the issues that have already been identified where there is room for improvement and that, in this regard, there is work already done that we can make progress on with emphasis on some issues, as I said, considering that there is room for improvement. In this respect, from the Basque People's Group, in our amendment we have taken up some of the points on which we believe that we must focus and which are fundamental for, well, in a future scenario, to be able to prevent such situations of pandemics, of infectious diseases. And above all, as I said, counting on the tools that we already have at our disposal. And that many of them we believe can be strengthened or have not been properly used in the management of this pandemic. In this regard, we propose to strengthen the epidemiological surveillance units and the Epidemiology Service of the Directorate of Public Health, in order to coordinate, validate, review and disseminate reports that aggregate all information related to this pandemic. Como... [[End of tape 44.]] [[Start of tape 45]] ... so that it coordinates, validates, reviews and disseminates the reports that aggregate all information related to this pandemic. As the proposer has pointed out, there is a report by the Advisory Council for Emerging Infectious Diseases of Euskadi, which was already prepared in 2019, and which, without prejudice to the fact that this report can be completed, can be revised, can be updated, we consider it already a valid tool to deal with the future and similar situations. On the other hand, we consider it important to adopt the protocols, technical indications that guarantee in closed spaces the sufficient frequency of air renewal. This is a point on which we are putting a lot of emphasis, and we have already done so through our proposals, through an amendment to the Anti-Pandemic Act in Euskadi, especially taking into account right now that the lifting of restrictions is going to interact with the opening of nighttime leisure, and certain more narrowly closed premises are going to interact, as I said, in this type of space that, without a doubt, must ensure ventilation or renovation of the air. On the other hand, we also urge the Basque Government to do something which, I believe, we systematically raise because we believe that this is where we must also emphasize and, no doubt, it is an aspect to be strengthened, which has become evident in which there are shortcomings, such as the area of primary care, the gateway to our health system. And, in this sense, we propose to review the strategy, which we were already critical at the time, the strategy drawn up already in previous legislatures, to adapt it to the need for both material and human resources that at the moment needs primary care and where there may be a deficit of them or all that has to do with the absence or deficit of professionals in this field. And, on the other hand, and given that one of the issues that is topical and that it will become increasingly important, are persistent covid situations. This pathology, which obviously needs to be worked on, these patients must be cared for, their care, their early diagnosis and follow-up must be guaranteed. And, in this regard, we also consider it important to incorporate in the different training plans, up-to-date information on this pathology and to strengthen research on the causes and treatment of it. That's why we think we have the means to look forward to the future. And on these points, our team... has commitments to the Basque Mitch, because some of the measures are important and it's going to start. And that's why we're thinking that this EH Collectation committee investigation is not necessary at the moment. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u81	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together the representative of the Podemos Anther, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u82	Yes, thank you. Good noon, everyone. Our coalition has not tabled any amendments to the initiative proposed by Mrs Ubera. We believe that this is an amendment which proposes something quite concrete, the creation of that parliamentary committee to which you have referred and which you have explained. And the truth is that we saw no reason to oppose the creation of that committee. We believe that it is a possible democratic, parliamentary, analytical, debateable area of a question that is indeed a public health issue, but it is a very specific public health issue, related to infectious diseases, related to possible future pandemics, and it is a question of public health, but it is a specific public health issue. And, therefore, yes, it seemed appropriate to us, we did not see the reasons for opposing it and, therefore, we have not made any kind of amendment and will vote in favour. We think it's a possibility to set up that commission. We also think, and this also has much to do with the decision of our amendment and of our position in the vote. We believe that this type of commission does not create any kind of dysfunction to the action of the Government and less to the action of the Government at the present time with the covid pandemic, because in addition that commission, as it is proposed, seems not to be intended to speak of the covid, although logically the experience of this covid pandemic would be in that commission and, therefore, we believe that it would not cause any dysfunction to the Government and to the action of the Government at this time. I am also going to refer to the amendment by the People's Party, Mrs Garrido, among other things, because – although it is hard for me to say this – I am virtually in agreement with the amendment tabled by the People's Party. A week ago, I had the opportunity to say in this Parliament that our coalition stands here with regard to the rest of the groups, on the basis of concrete content. Many of the things Mrs Garrido has raised, we too have been putting them, and we believe that it is correct, perhaps not all, and perhaps we would have liked, in that case, if we had made an amendment, to be able to compromise. But the truth is that Mrs Garrido's amendment, although we agree with the content, there will be other things, and I think she is doing a different approach that has nothing to do with the original proposal before us, and therefore that is why we are going to abstain from that amendment. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u83	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u84	Thank you, Madam President. I, too, am going to be quite brief, and I am going to be, because today the debate is not being brought here on what measures we have to take in the face of infectious diseases, in the face of outbreaks of... [[End of tape 45]] [[Start of tape 46.]] ... The debate on what measures we need to take to deal with infectious diseases, outbreaks of infectious diseases or pandemics of all kinds. I do not think I am the only one in this Parliament. What EH Bildu is asking us today is whether we need to set up a study committee in this Parliament so that in two months we can hear a few experts and then try to negotiate between political groups a plan to deal with these outbreaks and epidemics. And this is actually answered with a yes or a no, so we do not have an amendment to this initiative. And we are going to vote no, but we are going to vote not precisely because we are consistent with that recognition that I humbly did to you at first, and I think it will not surprise you, that although I know that it is not usual, although I know that sometimes we seem to have to know everything, the truth is that on more than one occasion I have told you that issues such as these are not so much political debate, but debate and scientific conclusions. In addition, I think it is very innocent to think that in two months since a parliamentary study committee, no matter how much each political group brings in two or three experts, a plan can be provided with masterful solutions to deal with all kinds of epidemics and outbreaks of infectious diseases. I just told you because it's more of a question... it's not so much a political question, it's just a scientific question. And to this is added the obvious fact that every infectious disease, every possible pandemic, has very particular conditions and characteristics. And here you're not talking (?) nothing more about the issues of COVID-19, no, it is precisely talking about everything other than COVID-19. Even many of the measures that have now been taken to deal with other infectious diseases, to deal with other types of pandemics, could be absolutely invalid, absolutely unnecessary. That's why we think he's too innocent, too. With this I do not say, we are not saying from the Socialist Group that nothing has to be done, of course it has to be done and you pointed out that I have sometimes commented to you because the Public Health Act itself, we will have to talk about a lot of issues, about how the issue of reaching normal care in the different care areas of Osakidetza is being addressed, but it is also that we, at the time, when we had to put the electoral programme we reflected on this issue and picked up the need to set up a standing committee on epidemiological matters back in July last year. And that was a question that was brought to the government agreement and that was shared by the Basque Nationalist Party, it was incorporated into that government agreement, and it is also one of those scientific committees, because I say it again, this is a question of more debate and scientific conclusions, because we have picked it up as an amendment to another initiative that you have also raised and that expired the deadline just seven days ago. That is why we are going to vote against it and we are going to vote against it because we believe that we do, that we have a lot of things to do, but we really believe that the vast majority of these issues are not political debate, they are scientific conclusions and politicians will have to carry out, bring to the arena of politics, the sand of rules and the sand of institutions, those issues that from science, not from the political debate, not because you and I will agree will be the solution to address those issues. And with regard to the amendment by the People's Party I will be honest with you, there are many things that we share with you and some of them are being carried out, the vast majority of them, and indeed, well, because in some cases, for example, with the issue of the persistent covid we have even spoken in this Parliament and there is an approved GNP, there is an approved amendment, which is the majority position of this Parliament. But as I said, we are not amending, so it is not possible to reach a compromise and we will not vote in favour, because it has nothing to do with what the proposing group is proposing. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u85	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u86	Mahaiburu andrea, salburua, legebiltzarkideok, arratsalde on guztioi. The same applies to animal protection as to COVID-19. Today, M. M. M.M. was named in September 2020, and from this year ago, the head of the Medical Department passed at the beginning of November, less than 11 months ago, to account for your projects for the legislature. You, Mrs. Ubera, a month later in December, proposed an LBP to create a pony and discuss the organization of the health department, especially in the first class. Now, not a year after we know what the Department of Health wants to do in this legislature, it presents us with a proposal to create a working group to analyze a way of dealing with outbreaks of emerging infectious diseases and pandemics, and I quote textually, "of all kinds". Bath, mesad, you're a Sailari lan Egyptian. In the Department it has only been 11 months trying to develop its programme while fighting a pandemic that is unleashed from time to time, it will not pretend that we tell it to stop, that we will already discuss in this Parliament how to do things right and if that, when we finish, we will tell it. The bureau knows better than anyone what to do. There are in him the best specialists in this country who are most experienced in the management of the pandademia. And they don't even try to start the program for a year. Forget your ideas and see if you can make any suggestions. You talk about working... [[End of tape 46]] [[Start of tape 47]] ... Trying to start programs. Forget your ideas and see if you're making proposals. You talk about working in this Parliament on emerging diseases. And, for starters, and although you know it, as there will be people in this House who don't, I quote for general knowledge, there is an Advisory Council on Emerging Infectious Diseases in Euskadi. Then the issue you want to work on in this House is already being addressed by aspects in the area. But that is so obvious that you yourself cite an expression of a document from that Advisory Council, to argue the proposal we are debating today. In a draft, a December 2019 draft, it is said, textual quote, that you put it. : "It also intends to imbue the health system of the autonomous community with a culture of good practice in the identification and prevention of the transmission of emerging infectious diseases, allowing, in the medium term, the criteria of suspicion to be established according to specific syndromic presentations in epidemiological environments, regardless of whether there is no epidemiological alert issued by the health authority". And it turns out, for a moment in the matter, that your whole working group approach arises from that phrase, at least in your explanation of the writing presented to the Bureau, which is a draft, as you indicate. Is a phrase in a draft a solid basis for creating a working group? And another thing, this is more serious, do you see us members of the committee, those you know, helping you think carefully about concrete syndromic presentations in epidemiological settings? Well, look, it costs me. This doesn't mean that if you have to wear it, I wear it. If we have to pick up stone, we pick up. But it would be nothing more than a nuisance to those who really know this, who have been working on the subject their whole lives and want to work to advance and impregnate the health system, not the Parliament, with the new knowledge acquired in this pandemic, that so many surprises and so many disgusts it has been giving us. But that is true, in equal parts throughout the world, even in Nafarroa and Madrid, where you also play to influence, but it seems that there it has not been thought to suggest this new idea of creating working groups to analyze future pandemics or perhaps in those homes is already resolved. But it is that you look for old drafts of advisory committees, when you have not stopped to quote that the matter that you propose already appears concrete, beyond the reflection of a draft, in the very program of government presented in this House in September last year. And then again embodied in the Department of Health program, presented to the Health Commission in November 2020. In both cases, with a commitment to set up a Standing Committee on Epidemiological Issues, coordinated with the Spanish Government and the coordinating body which, for this purpose, is set up within the European Commission. A commitment that means taking a step beyond the Advisory Council that you have quoted. And that programme, with that and many more commitments that have not been under way for a year, also provides for the adoption of the Public Health Bill, a law that should contain aspects of how to work against pandemics. If you'd read transparent government programming documents instead of dark sketches, I'd know you're working. This law should be the natural forum, without taking commissions out of the sleeve to discuss how to organize the system of alerts to outbreaks of emerging diseases. Wait until the project arrives, and present its amendments for later, in paper, the natural place of a working committee, debate and share (...). In addition, for the discussion of that law, you can bring all the experts you want, while to the working group, the Rules of Procedure, the rule of procedure on which you are based to create this commission, only allows you to bring a number not more than half of the members of the commission. In this case, there would be, at most, eight experts. By the way, and knowing how firsthand I know the amendments that you submitted to the COVID-19 anti-pandemic law, which, by the way, was a catalogue of amendments that proposed a new anti-all pandemic law, I imagine what will happen to you to work with emerging infectious diseases. Name a prestigious epidemiologist, without telling us the method of selection. And when it's done, put in others and other epidemiologists, but let the chief or chief send, send, above all, and decide on settings, closures, timetables and whatever you want to decide, and then send it to the Governing Council and let the lehendakari, without the possibility of discussing that proposal, sanction it. The model may seem great to you. Otherwise, I would not have incorporated it in your amendments. But to me and our group, it seems like a technocratic and anti-democratic scarecrow. And if that's your starting point for the suggested committee of work, it's almost better if you don't start your work. In the meantime, the Government and our parliamentary group are working, in addition to resolving matters, to move forward with the proposals that, at the beginning of the legislature, the Department of Health committed itself to. That is why we are waiting for the public health law, to discuss its contents in the corresponding paper, which is where these issues are dealt with. That is why we are proposing amendments to their occurrences, which will allow us to address the different issues that are emerging and which will continue to be the fulfilment of the Government's commitments at the beginning of this parliamentary term. Here is the amendment to one of its last 3,500 PNL, in which we ask the Government to create this Standing Committee on Epidemiological Affairs under the government program, to design, lead and imbue strategies against future health emergencies. Why make a working group when it is still up to the Government to develop its strategies? What is the purpose of a working group when, in a few months' time, the public health law will arrive and the corresponding presentation will be made? And why is a working group, when the Government and this parliamentary group are already developing lines of work for the Executive to design and create a Standing Committee on Epidemiological Affairs? As you can see, we are not very supportive of your proposal. We are more than letting the government convince us, on the basis of developing what at the beginning of the legislature told us it was going to develop. Give me time. Read the government program and leave the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u87	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. In answer time, representative of EH Collector, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours... [[End of tape 47]] [[Start of tape 48]] ...Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u88	Thank you, Mr. Tellegio. In the turn of the answers, representative of EH Collector, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u89	It has become clear once again that you are not in favour of this Parliament working. That's very clear. And if you began to speak of the occurities, you might even have been able to find out if you started to apply them to you, that law of consumption and so famous and so full of mouth was the idea of the brillante, who, at least, was not the most expert, and not of those scientists you have so often uttered. He would have known how to apply this duly law to which you were ashamed, whose idea it was. Look, what we're planning today is just a democratic exercise, two months' work, but it seems like working here seems like a perfect job. And it's a pity, and one day somebody will have to explain to me why they can be arguing here, about all the other things that can be done, about education, industry, economics, environments, there are also scientific knowledge, there's a way to make politics, but there's no policy in health. That's the expert. And look, Mr. Tellegio, I read a lot, and this report, which has been done and has been sketched and neglected, is a document for us all to face the scenes and the pandemies, and there's one part of it that's scientific, and there's another part of it that concerns the politicians: the infrastructure, structure, organization, how it works, and all that is to be met with, and that's politics. And as in all other fields, there may be some resolutions, or others, founded on precedents. As we have seen in the world, evidence is the same, but different decisions have been made in each country. In the Spanish State, for instance, different measures have been made of vaccination, which is politics. And here also we must make politics, of course. You're serious, considering things the way they ought to be. And that's what we're planning for, for the sake of course, as you said, in article 62. And 62. The article isn't made like the rest of us, and then we work and we don't do it. 62. It is an article which is done with experts, that they should work together, not after, but afterwards, not with them; That's just what we plan. As M. Fernández mentioned yesterday, a deep thought, taking the prospects of all the fields, and considering every glance. But it seems like fun to make politics, but the parliament can't be political. Look, when you came with the Kovada managing law, we didn't hesitate at the moment, that wasn't your job. Would he have agreed to the scientific and experts, would he have been hired? Yes or no? I don't know. I can interpret that no, seeing how stupid it was. But we argued with all due respect. And then you'll bring in a project of Public Health, very well, and we won't question it, and we'll do it with respect, and we'll study it as we do the rest of us. Yes, because that's what we're in the legislature for. What we wanted to do today is another way of doing things on the table. As Mrs. Galástegui first explained very well, another administrative model, a different way of doing things, a model of management, etc. But it looks like we're far away from there. And just when you're asking people to deal with emergencys, cooperation, cooperation, etc., we see that there we can't, right? There's no telling what it is, fear or there's no way of making a move. Look, we're told that the exam committee isn't necessary, okay? And we want to know what that really means. Let's see if we don't need to consider each other, whether the collapse is not necessary, the cooperation, the union of all views is not necessary. And we'd like to see if that's what's in the back or about the records made by Public Health and Osar. For to us here in the Pandemae, we have been told that he has not been told to them, and that they have been at work, but where have the decisions been made? So, do we want to tell you about that community? Yes or no? And this is also our duty, and it is our duty. Look, it's a pity, you see, we're still far away, and even though we're close to pandemia, and now we're going to take another way, and there's a chance that we'll leave the corners to one side, and other camps for work, it's like... ) We'll be working on the road. We have brought the report, with perfect transparency and sincerity, based on a good work we have made, but it seems as if we cannot speak about it, and that the legislature has vetato, and it is a pity. And finally, I forgot Mrs Garrido. The amendment you have made has nothing to do with our proposal to-day, you know that we agree with what you propose, and that we have often brought proposals about it from our group and debates, and that it is necessary to discuss and advance the subjects you describe. Because here we talk a lot, but there's a lot of need for a serious change in the public health system.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Group Popular-Ciudados... [[End of tape 48]] [[Start of tape 49]] ... We have a serious change in the public health system.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Euscal Group Popular-Ciudados, Mrs Garrido from there is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. With your permission, I'll leave the seat. On the one hand, we agree with several of the things Mrs. Uberé has said, but then we think it would not be convenient for us to encourage the interference of the research at this moment because we have other resources in the legislature and we also have a detailed report on our desktop. This group when it considered the proposal of the proposer group, EH Bildu, had two options: either not to submit an amendment or to submit an amendment. We chose the second option because we considered that we could raise specific issues in which we believe that we need to deepen at this time, such as strengthening epidemiological surveillance units, the epidemiological surveillance service, reviewing the primary care strategy, deepening everything that has to do with persistent covid situations to give quality care to these patients and, above all, having an organ that we believe, yes, that has not been told enough with it, such as the Advisory Council on Emerging Infectious Diseases, which also has a report. We therefore believe that, to some extent, we can even duplicate that work when there is already a report that can be completed, that can be updated by experts who start a committee here with appearances, with a deadline of more than two months, that we believe that its results would be as satisfactory as reports from bodies that already exist and that are working on this issue for a long time. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u93	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together Podemos-Toy won't speak. Basque Socialists, Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u94	From the seat? Okay. I, Mrs Ubera, will never doubt that what you bring here brings you with conviction and because you believe that it is the best that you can bring, but what I cannot share with you or let it pass, and that is why I will intervene in this reply that I did not intend to intervene, is that you question that what others think, let us really think and that what we come here to propose is simply because, as you have just said, we do not want to work. That's what I said. And I think it's so terrible that you say that. Look, I don't know what vocation you had to come to this Parliament, I can tell you mine and that of my colleagues that it is working and a lot. We have not stopped working, and neither have you, throughout the pandemic, even at times when this Parliament was not meeting, remember? In the confinement, you and I agree on some organ, remember that? Not sharing your positions, I think it is something that rests with the other groups, and having our own positions is as logical as you come here with an initiative, and do not feel offended when we tell you that that is not the way. Look, I'm going to give you the clearest example of why this isn't the way. Do you really believe that in a parliamentary committee in two months, passing here three or four experts we can really agree on a plan for all kinds of infectious diseases and all kinds of epidemics? It's just that I think that only the approach is going to allow me, before I used the word "innocent", now I'm going to use another a little thicker, "it's ridiculous, it's ridiculous" because science hasn't got it, we're not going to get it. It's just that if you and I agree that by putting a pen in our hands that's a solution for something, no matter how much we take it to a text or to a parliamentary plan, that's not going to be the solution to anything in science. It's not a political debate, it's a scientific debate. And at a time when a pandemic has shown us that science and politics have to go hand in hand, I do not understand why you are so sorry that from the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group we are saying no because we want a scientific committee to decide it. I really don't understand. With this intervention, all I want to ask is respect for the parliamentary work that we do in the rest of the parliamentary groups. In health and other matters EH Bildu is not the only one who works, I can assure you, we work a lot, at least as much as you do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u95	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u96	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea. I'll be quick. Although it was not your proposal, Mrs Garrido, you have tabled an amendment from where you are going, apples I bring. He has done something that he usually does, has nothing to do with the proposal made. He has launched one, he has shot all sides around covid, nothing had to do with Mrs Ubera's proposal and he has found that this time no one had tabled an amendment, which you usually take advantage of for another group to present an amendment, my friend Hernández has fallen on it several times, you see he is learning and no longer presenting amendments, to make a look? and end by supporting an amendment that has been negotiated with Bildu. But, well, this time he didn't come out and stayed in apples I brought. Look, Mrs. Ubera, I'm not going to offend as much as Mr. Rico, although you're absolutely right to offend. Well, we don't want to work, but the problem is that you confuse that being busy is about working, it has nothing to do with it. And you want us to be busy, we only have to see the amount of non-law propositions, motions, things that you throw, many of them without much sense, you are busy, very busy, and you have us all busy, but working what is working, I don't know anymore. Look, and then he accuses us of not wanting to do politics. What are we doing here? And when we tell you that this committee makes no sense, we are also doing politics and you want it to become political or to be decided, which is what I told you, that I do not feel able to talk about syndromic presentations. I don't give a shit about the sea, because it was going to cost me a lot, I was going to have to go over all my career books again. But I don't want to... [[End of tape 49]] [[Initial of tape 50]] ... because it was going to cost me a lot, I was going to have to go over all my career books again. But I don't want to do politics talking about syndromic presentations, I want to do politics doing what we do here, debating laws, and letting the government do politics doing the politics of what it committed not a year ago. We're not going to make a commission to say "what you said a year ago we don't trust and we're going to make a syndromic commission to tell you how you have to do it." Look, this isn't the model. And, of course, and then on top of that, and Mr Hernandez also came in, you say you want to make work on syndromic presentations and I don't know what's epidemiologic. But he says that, first of all, he told Mr Fernández yesterday that a deep reflection must be made. Mr Hernández has said that it is not a question of making a deep reflection. Let us see if they are clear, let us see if they are clear as to whether we need to reflect deeply on what we have done. And then, you're talking about it's a party act. Look, it's working with technicians, okay. By saying that, do you mean that this parliamentary group sees the virus from the point of view of the PNV? Do you think we work from that perspective? Or is it more than anything you've seen, still seeing the whole virus from your anti-PNV magnifying glass? That'll be it. That's when you talk about partyism when we talk about COVID-19. The Government has been doing all the time work based on the documentation of technicians and experts, and we continue to talk about technicians and experts. And then you've talked about something, that yes, about working or not working anymore at this point in my life doesn't worry me much, because I've already told you that you're confused to be busy with working. But when you talk about democratic exercise, that we don't do a democratic exercise, that does hurt me more. Because that, like it doesn't make me work, but it does make me think. Look, isn't it, all the work the government is doing is not democratic? Is it not a government that comes from a democracy? Democratic elections? And that we have also supported you in this Parliament, which is democratic? That there is not a committee that studies syndromics, that is not doing a democratic exercise? Let's see if you set limits to where democratic exercises are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u97	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. End of discussion, we'll vote for the original text of the EH Collection proposal. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly, 70; the votes given, 72; the supporters 27; the opponents of the enemy, 45; abstaining, 0; white, 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u98	So it's not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the whole of the Basque Groups of Populars. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 70; 72; the supporters 5; the opponents are 39; the abscesssions, 28; white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-09-23.u99	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at three o'clock in the afternoon.
