ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I may inform you that the second point on the subject list has been left for another purpose, and that 34 lords and ladies have taken the vote. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, we shall call the peasant of each of us the parliamentary tribe of Irido. Good morning. David Bearin, the Nafarian reporter and the cameraman Roberto Fraile were killed by Burkina Fason, and the Basque Congress wants to give condolences to their families, friends, and colleagues. We're trying to tell all those who, like David and Roberto, work in the defense of human rights and free journalism. The profession of journalism is indispensable in a democracy, and still more necessary in the countries inhabited by conflict. We also wish to recall the professionals who have been persecuted, threatened, or slain by their profession. In the face of the tragic news of the murder in Burkina Faso of Navarro journalist David Beriain and the Vizcay chamber Roberto Fraile, the Basque Parliament wants to convey its deepest condolences to the family, friends and fellow professionals. We express our full appreciation to those like David and Roberto who work daily in the defence of human rights and free and courageous journalism. A profession that is indispensable in every democracy and that becomes even more necessary in those areas that live in conflict. We also remind media professionals and professionals that they are persecuted, threatened and killed by the mere practice of their profession. After that, we'll have a minute's silence. [[One minute's silence]] First point in theme list: "Motion, I'm introduced to the members of the Casanova Alonso EH gathered together in front of Euskaltel sales. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Casanova, your word is to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u1	Good morning, everyone. Good morning and welcome, Grei. In this life there are few things more ungrateful than predicting misfortunes, because two things can happen: that you fail, that you are mistaken, and that you are like a fool, or that you are right and that you are like a smart man. If you fail, they'll reproach you that you're always thinking badly, that you're a pessimist, that you always get in trouble. If you're right and you say, "Hey, this was already warned by me," they'll say, "Good hours you're coming," "Captain a posteriori." So unpleasant is that of predicting misfortunes that Greek mythology, of course, has its corresponding character and its corresponding myth about it: the myth of Casandra, the fortune teller who had the ability to see the future, but had the curse that no one listened to it. We and we, in Euskal Herria Bildu, of course, are neither divine nor intend to, but it is true that, in reference to the evolution of the company Euskaltel, we predict a misfortune: the disappearance of Euskaltel as a Basque company, and that misfortune has been fulfilled. Esta que vamos a debair hoy aquaí es la vigesimoquinta iniciativa que presenta Euscalo de la Emploia Euscaltel. Question 25, interpelation, scene, legal proposal, motion. 25 initiative targets: Τhere's what's going to happen. If, then, what we were trying to avoid has happened, we must admit that we have failed in our trial. We have failed to defend the Euscala character of the Basques. And he has failed and lost, and, unfortunately, he has lost an important company, which has lost, from the Euskal People, something important. We naturally admit that we have failed, with sincerity, with grief, but without concealment of the truth. We admit we failed. Our plan was to keep Basque companies, and it's not anymore. We wanted the institutions and the Arkbanks to play a leadership paper in the Basques, and they don't play any papers anymore. We wanted to guarantee the Euscale People's romance, and there's no guarantee anymore. And we wanted Euscalel, a Basque company, to be a tractor and leader in the area of the Esscal telecommunics, and that won't happen either. So with all naturalness, we must say that EH Collect has failed in that way. And, unfortunately, there's a news that has been fatal to the entire Basque Country. We're proud, but we're still proud. Sometimes you win, sometimes you lose. We are proud of our sincerity in this struggle, of our sincerity, of our loyalty to this people and our principles. That doesn't mean that in this case and in all other cases we always do everything right, that we do everything we can or can figure out. That doesn't happen, and we don't announce it. But in this case, we have a way of showing pride, which we have done with sincerity, transparency, and loyalty. Maybe that's why we lost him. Perhaps this is why we have lost because our adversaries have not acted in this combat, because they have not behaved honestly, but falsely. They didn't act with transparency, but with darkness. And they did not act loyally, but tried to make use of tricks and cheat. And I am not referring only to the international speculative investment funds, which have intervened in certain or several phases of Euskaltel's disappearance process as a Basque company. I'm not talking about the problem being the excessive greed of these investment funds, because that was what was to be expected. The funds I'm not gonna say don't cheat. The funds cheat, they cheat constantly. Or, rather, they lie constantly, but they don't cheat. They don't cheat because, of course, we know they're lying. Its function is to lie, because there is only one thing that is clear in the funds: it is that they have a strategy of making the maximum money, the maximum profitability in the shortest possible time. Funds don't sell deep-rooted stories, strategic bets, R & D, or anything like that. And when they do, we know they're lying, because their goal is to make money in the short term, at the expense of anything. So they lie, but they don't cheat. The funds are piranhas, they are piranhas that are genetically programmed to devour their prey and take out as much spoil as possible. And, if you don't want to end up devoured by the piranhas, what you don't have to do is get into a pool full of them, unless someone plays, like some sorcerer's apprentices have played, or worse yet, then pretend, with the bones or spoils that leave the funds, to make a rich broth with bonuses and gains. We didn't expect anything from the funds. The Basque Government and Kutxabank, yes. From them we expected a minimum of consistency, consistency to what they said, and consistency to their theoretical purposes; to fill up the respect due to this people, another activity, another attitude, we expected a different kind of addiction. But from them too, unfortunately, we found tricks, tricks, lack of loyalty and lies. We didn't lose them just in the Euskaltel Company, the greed for funds, but because the Arkbanks and the ARMK didn't do their job because of the treachery of the Arkbanks and the ARBREY. Those who were to protect the castle opened the back door to the invader. I have mentioned Casadra, a character of the Greek mythology. And now I'm gonna talk about another one. This is mythology, but it contains at least one foot or foot in real history; Ephialtes, who betrayed the Spartans in the battle of Theophelas, and showed him the way to attack the Persian army. Ephaltes. That's the part that some people have played in the Basques, the treachery and everything that was meant to be sacrificed to the enemy. We're in the world's most important moment. And it is true that this is always said. But in this case, and in this decade, we're at an important intersection, because the accumulation of technological disruption sets us in front of a change of seasons. There's technology in the midst of all transitions and distractions. That's the axis. And all the governments of the world support their interests, their companies, their bets in technology, all the governments of the world. Or here, perhaps, as everyone says in Snoopy's comic books? No, no, there's one who does the opposite. Unfortunately, this isn't a weekly story, and here it's against others or an exception isn't a good one. All the other governments support their strategic companies, while the EukMU will applaud the losses of the strategic company. Again, the Basque only in the world, but in this case it is very negative. Here, the loss of a top-of-the-world technology business is to applaud. It's good news for the government. And we're being told that we're going up to the Champons Legue. The Champions League of Disappointment has led us to the position of the Basque Government in the face of the loss of Euskaltel. Champions League of Desperation. While in normal countries even laws are made to prevent the loss of strategic companies, the sale to external capital of strategic companies, here is celebrated as a classification for the Champions. There are statements from some relevant political leaders in this country, who dare to say that without this operation Euskaltel was going to serve 5G with txalaparta This is not going to send memes faster by wasap, but rather the capacity of our society, of our educational system, of our network of science, technology and innovation, of our industrial productive fabric to have access to telematic services as advanced as possible at the moment. This is going to live better, to learn better, to research better and to produce better, because the technological revolution, to a large extent, revolves around telecommunications, which will be the ones that open the door to the deployment of other kinds of technologies that we have heard a lot about, that still some may think of science fiction, but that today are already developing, and here too, by our companies, such as artificial intelligence, virtual reality, augmented reality, IoT, robotics, industry and factory 4.0, etc. And it would be important for us here to concentrate on a telecommunication company giving society as best as possible, not only from a economist perspective but from an commitment to this people. That's why Euskaltel was created at a time of distraction and new technology was being developed. But unfortunately, now, when we needed most, some people decided to file it. How does it benefit us that MásMovil has absorbed Euskaltel? Nothing. MoreMovil is a low cost company Can it be a competitive Basque company? It's just that we're being told not in the globalized world. Is it necessary for a giant to come and buy you? That is the message that the Basque Government is transferring to the business fabric of this country, which revolves around SMEs. Well, we, from Euskal Herria Bildu, of course, believe so. It can, and it's done. And there is empirical evidence of mid-sized Basque companies that are leaders. And some will need alliances. In fact, Euskaltel had alliances, and Euskaltel used telephone networks from other companies. A Basque company at neither technological nor infrastructure level will be able to materialize all the necessary developments to carry out its activity, but it can be a strong company that through alliance access to technologies and other issues that it may need. We are losing important companies: Ibermática, Gamesa, ITP, Aernnova, because they are filling their boards of directors, their shareholder councils, foreign capital and funds. Some might say that if Basque companies are too small to survive in the global world, the same could apply to this country: a country too small to survive in the global world. And that is why we must put aside the aspirations for sovereignty and independence. We think just the opposite, that just as Basque companies, small and medium-sized, can work and are working, so are the small and medium-sized countries that work best to give their citizens a higher quality of life. It was a very sad piece of fun. It was very sad. And we'd like to know when the Urkullu hasn't answered when he decided to protect this operation. My thesis is that the government has taken no part in all this until the end of the process, when it has been reported to her that this would happen, and she has tried to recuperate it, by propaganda, to conceal her defeat and her impotence. More Mobile was at the merger of Vodafone until early March. At what point is Euskaltel unable to provide advanced 5G services? At what point in March did the Basque Government have the revelation that all that had been said until then was that Euskaltel was going to strengthen itself in the state and that it was going to be good, that that no longer applies and that what needs to be done is to be absorbed by the MostMobile? At what time and on the basis of what studies? Based on what reflections? What day of the week? Well, it was the day of the week he was called and told that the operation was underway. And then, it's time to change the speech, improvise a new argumentary and – I believe – deceive Basque society. A metaphor for the attitude of a government that lives on rent and inertia, and that falls as soon as inertia ends, and that compensates for its lack of leadership, leadership and strategic vision of a country with propaganda. We don't think this town is for sale. We do not think that it will be the only way to sell ourselves to external powers. We believe in the enterprises of this country. We're betting on the small and average companies in this village. We believe in this people, and we do it also for its sovereignty. As far as I'm concerned, the Basque Country isn't for sale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u2	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together represent the Podemos-IU team. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u3	Good morning, congressmen. I will define, on behalf of my parliamentary group, the history of Euskaltel with thick words that serve the truth: an expoliation to the public for the benefit of capitalists and financial speculators. The myth of the Basque oasis with its exceptional state of well-being and its deep-rooted industry contrasts with the financialized reality in which savage neoliberalism is felt and felt. The OPA on Euskaltel is a good proof of this. This movement represents the last chapter of a close relationship between the local elites, who have hurried to point out that they see with good eyes the OPA, and the great international capitals. In our view, there is no way for the Economic Development Adviser to ensure that this operation has been followed closely and that it is seen with good eyes, as it is an agreement between companies in the country. They have not followed the operation closely, because they do not paint anything, nor is it an agreement between two companies in the country. It is an agreement between capitalists and speculators who have no more homeland than the mighty knight gives money, capital. It's been a final chapter that's clearly predictable. Mr Casanova made reference to this and, of course, we agree with him. And, if not, let us review this very Parliament's session paper on this privatizing history, of a policy with that name that bothers some so much when we point it out to them: neoliberal, pure and harsh neoliberal policy. When we continually talk about neoliberal policies practiced by the Basque Government, we talk about a kind of concrete policies. It's not an insult. And the truth is that Euskaltel's current reality is the result of a concrete policy, a clearly neoliberal policy, where the public administration acts in the service of private interests under the false argument of the so-called free market. For a few years now, the company Euskaltel, whose creation we pay to sell Basques and Basques with public money, is no longer owned, albeit indirectly, by all and everyone. Private owners, mostly capitalist investors, have long been the majority owners of this company. If the objective of the company Euskaltel was, in origin, to provide a public service in the field of telecommunications, the truth is that, for a long time and after a privatization process in every rule, we have to say that the objective of Euskaltel is to obtain profit for its owners; that and no other. What is now happening with this operation that has been completed is a final chapter of this entire path of privatization of public resources of which the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Socialist Party and the People's Party have been participants. Perhaps that is why none of these three parties have tabled any amendments to Mr Casanova's initiative. What are you going to say, that in the last debate we had in this Parliament on this issue, following the entry of the Zegona investment fund into the company, we were assured that the root was guaranteed with a percentage of participation by Kutxabank and our very friendly minority partners? We have already defended then, and previously, that there is no possibility of guaranteeing the famous root if there is no public control. Maintaining the decision center in Euskadi did not guarantee anything if the toy was in the hands of private investment funds, as we already held in 2019. The sale of the company Euskaltel to a company controlled by international speculative funds has only been possible thanks to the active and indispensable role played by the Basque Government and Kutxabank for years in all that privatization process of the company, a process in which Euskaltel has gone from being a company created with funds, impulse and, in part, public purposes to being under the control of international speculative capital. In the early 1990s, the Basque Government began to open ditches with public money to install its own fiber optic telecommunications network. Back in 1995, he presented Euskaltel as the public enterprise facing the digitisation of autonomous bodies. The Basque Government entered as a majority partner with 40% of the share capital, and the three savings banks controlled the other 60%. 26 years later, the company is wholly controlled by international speculative funds. How do you get from one situation to another? The role of the Basque Government and the parties – the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Socialist Party, but also the People's Party – has made it possible, not because of mistakes made – we think that this is not about mistakes – but because that is the policy that has been practiced. And now all we have to say is: it's the market, friends. The lehendakari Patxi López proposed to the Basque Parliament the sale of Basque fiber optics for the equivalent in shares, at 68 million euros. The disposal was approved with augustity in a permanent parliament of this Basque Parliament thanks to the votes of these three parties. After a bill of 222 million fine for breach of a contract with the Orange company, the door was finally opened at the entrance to Euskaltel of major international capitals. Sprinkled by the Orange disaster, the exlehendakari José Antonio Ardanza left the presidency of Euskaltel, and the Basque government definitively abandoned the company's shareholdership. Lakua's stake was sold slightly above €25 million. The then nationalist Government delivered its full stake in the company by one third of the value of the shares it had acquired in exchange for the public telecommunications network just a couple of years earlier. From there, Euskaltel was already a private telecommunications company, ready to generate capital gains for the capitalists. The financial group ICV was made with 41% of the Basque teleco for just 200 million euros. Only three years later, ICV sold all its shares at the stock exchange of a EUR 1.2 billion Euskaltel. A round business. Since then and to date, the distribution of millionaire dividends to capitalist partners has been the usual year after year; the last, in the midst of the pandemic, which included an extraordinary distribution of 55 million euros. Meanwhile, Euskaltel has been carrying out for years hard adjustment processes in the employment and working conditions of its staff. The staff has been reduced in different cutting actions, which have sometimes taken the form of subcontracts, through which employees went to other companies, and no longer belong to the staff of Euskaltel. At the moment, it is a real insult to the contrast between the wage freeze that de facto suffers. The salary increases proposed by the workers' representatives would be around 260,000 euros; it contrasts this figure with the 27 million euros in bonuses that some are going to be distributed. The management of Euskaltel has acted guided by exclusive profitability targets for shareholders and the collection of bonuses from managers: year 2021, 25 million euros distributed among its shareholders; year 2020, 55 million euros distributed among its shareholders; year 2019, another 55 million euros distributed among its shareholders; year 2018, 49 million euros distributed among its shareholders; year 2017, 64 million euros distributed among its shareholders. And all this has been done by supposedly being the centre of decision in Euskadi, but in the hands of private interests, which is really important: in the hands of who these kinds of companies are. It is especially important in the case of a company such as Euskaltel, because of the importance of the public at its origin. That's what we've been defending at all times, because what was born with public money shouldn't end up being a private business for some. But that is, in short, the history of Euskaltel and the history of the policies promoted and practiced in Euskaldi by his Government in this regard. Productive politics and the valorization of work have lost to capitalist speculation, whose actors have penetrated the backbone of the Basque economy to extract substantial profits, speculating with what they were in their day public assets, all at the hands of their political allies. That is why we tabled an amendment in its entirety and we negotiated with the proposing group, because we were basically in agreement with the initiative being put forward and because, in addition, we felt that it was very important for this Parliament today, after that operation, to express itself in these terms. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u4	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing the teams that don't run, Mistto. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. A week ago we were moving from this rostrum the unpalliative failure that has meant the closure of the Naval and the de-industrialization of the Left Margin, dozens of employment and re-industrialization plans and dwindling, if not non-existent, results. Another economic failure is being brought to this House today. Five deputies from a Spanish region with a very particular funding system supported the constitution of the first government of the People's Party so that it would, in return, give the green light to the creation of the Basque public telecommunications company Euskaltel. But what is gained in the offices, in offices without light or tachygraphs, is lost in the markets. The Basque welfare model is unable, despite its ability to finance, to create and/or maintain an industry that brings wealth, brings added value and that this added value remains on our land. In this case, investments have been made from scratch here, in the Basque Country; the company has taken size, and other companies, other funds, have arrived, and they have bought them. Without a doubt, the Basque Government could have saved this operation; another issue is whether it wanted to do so or not. The instrument had created it, and it was a matter of making a decision and considering whether it was a company worth maintaining for its root. The Basque Government could certainly have used its fund to participate in companies, as it did at the time with CAF or Kaiku. And Kutxabank, our guiding bank, despite having the obligation to cut its presence in Euskaltel by mandate of the European Central Bank, has ignored the strategic objective of maintaining the company's roots in our territory, renouncing its particular conscience. It gives the feeling that, in the changes that are coming, priority is given to filling the bag, so that it can come, rather than maintaining our wealth and our industry. Autonomic governments have become puppets of the globalist multinationals, of the large investment funds that are generously rewarded with our work, our heritage and our talent at a balance price. The result of this operation is clear: a huge amount of public money wasted, loss of talent and, of course, uprooted; and, lastly, unacceptable incentives: José Miguel García will take 28% of the total, while the chairman of the board of directors, Xabier Iturbe Otaegi, will be left with 4%; the remaining 63% will be distributed among the rest of the directors. Since the OPA launched by MásMovil is about 100% of Euskaltel's shares and the price of the offer is 11.15 euros per title, the value granted to the Basque company is 1.986 million. The incentive plan established stock market capitalization between June 5, 2019 and the end of 2022 as a measure. As two years ago the capitalisation of the group was around 1.3 billion euros, the revaluation now calculated by different means is 670 million euros. As Mr Hernández said – and I refresh you – the bonus will be 4% of the latter amount, so Euskaltel's leadership will be rewarded with around EUR 26.8 million: José Miguel García, EUR 7.5 million, and Xabier Iturbe, more than EUR 1 million. A scandal from which many gather nuts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u6	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Euscala Popularo-Ciudadnos's representative. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. We are today in an almost epitaph session of Euskaltel, and it is logical that there are historical references to remember a little what has been the trajectory of this company, which is true that it is full of changes of opinion; it is full, even, of falsehoods and also of unexpected turns. I would like to begin by reviewing some of the statements that were poured into this very rostrum in the inquiry that originated this motion; that is, very recently. The Lehendakari said last week – and I quote textually – "Euskaltel was born in 1995, driven by the Basque Government with a 40% stake in its capital. "So," he said, "it wasn't even in its early days a public society of the Basque Government." This statement, as you know, contains two perfectly calculated inaccuracies. The first of these – I think we all know history – is obvious: the creation in 1992 of Euskalnet, according to Decree 385/1992 of 15 December, whose share capital was paid out entirely by the Administration of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Nor is reference made to the successive capital increases made by Basque taxpayers by Euskalnet. A capital increase of 4 billion pesetas was made in 1993 alone, which would now amount to more than 39 million euros. And these extensions were repeated in the year 94, 95 and 96. Euskalnet signed a contract with Euskaltel under the agreement dated 27 May 1997, whereby the Euskalnet Governing Council leased to Euskaltel, as has already been said, the networks for the transmission and switching of voice and data signals based on microwaves and fiber optics, as well as the nodal centres and the rest of the elements necessary for their proper functioning. Let us remember that Euskalnet was 100% involved by the Basque public administration. In 2012, he finally sold Euskaltel's fiber network for 68 million euros. Therefore, the Basque Government had much to do with the creation of Euskaltel, had much to do with the sale of Euskalnet's assets and had much to do with the sale of its stake in Euskaltel in 95. It is true that it was 45% on that date, but – and here the second great inaccuracy of Mr Lehendakari's speech – the remaining 60% of Euskaltel was from BBK, Kutxa and Caja Vital, and the assets with which Euskaltel had to carry out his activity came from Euskalnet, a company wholly owned by the Basque Government. That is, Euskaltel was a strategic bet of the Basque Government during the 1990s. And, therefore, we do expect you to explain whether all the public investment to achieve that supposed Basque sovereignty in the field of telecommunications ever made sense. And I'll give you the answer. In the light of the facts reported and throughout the world known, the management of the Basque Government in all this has been a real shambles. But the Basque government closed it in 2012 with the sale of the fiber network and the exit of Euskaltel's shareholdership. Since 2012, it is the market that decides the future of Euskaltel. And we cannot in 2021 want to run a private company that owns and has paid for it as if it were a public company. The motion we are discussing today, therefore, has no practical effect, not only because we believe it is not going to come out, but also because it is only intended to punish, to wear down the Government. It is not the first or last motion of this type presented here. The last one we saw, in fact, last week on the subject of La Naval. And the truth is, I don't think Euskadi is for these floral games. The health and economic situation has many of our fellow citizens having a bad time, and I wonder if we should not devote our time and money, or money, to helping them more effectively than by discussing purely declaratory motions that will in no way have an impact on alleviating the situation. But it is also true that, in reviewing the documentation, one is impressed by the number of hours and the number of initiatives that have been devoted in this Parliament to talking about this undertaking. Mr. Casanova said there were 25. I mean, I think I've even counted some more; all without any practical results. So let's focus on the company's current situation. As we all know, last month it became public that the company MásMovil had launched an OPA, and that the position of the most significant shareholders was favorable to the acquisition, so we can say that Euskaltel has been bought by a larger company in the telecommunications sector, after a trajectory of more than 25 years. Objectively, this is an operation between two private companies, which should not be part of the public debate and on which we will refrain from giving our full opinion. However, following the current situation and the history of the company makes it necessary to make some complementary considerations. And it is that Euskaltel was created with the vocation – and it must be said clearly – to constitute a fundamental part in the process of national construction, that sick entelequia from which still some have not awakened and which explains why we continue here completely angry by this topic. That is, since he was born, Euskaltel was a project at the service of the greatest glory of nationalism. The aim was to achieve a supposed Basque sovereignty in the field of telecommunications, as well as in the field of energy, industry or health, to give some examples. To be awarded with his presidency to exlehendakari José Antonio Ardanza or ex-counsel José Luis Larrea shows it well to the clear. They and others always made sure that the company was politically well controlled and directed towards the right ends. The quality of your management is better not to talk. That is why we are now talking so much about uprooting, because in 2012 political control was definitely lost. And that means giving up the initial national construction project. And now, Bildu comes nine years later to claim I don't know what exactly. Because, as I told you at the beginning of my speech, this initiative has no impact on the open process at all. They're specialising in looking like they're doing rather than doing it, Mr. Casanova. You prefer to come here and talk about what private companies have to do, but when you can do something for the Basques, as was the case with the budgets, your silence in the form of amendments was overwhelming. And it's that nationalist gentlemen of both groups, you can't put doors to the countryside. Then there was the need to incorporate technological partners, and, a little later, the need to grow in order to compete in a market. A market that some call neoliberal, full of piranhas that eat people's flesh. It's the market, the same market that makes them and us buy things and buy where we think it's right. In this case, a telecommunications market that was and is immersed in a brutal concentration process that undoubtedly threatened its survival. In the middle were spent many hundreds of millions of euros of public money on a fiber optic network of about 500 kilometers paid for by all Basques – it is true – and which was subsequently sold at bargain price without a public offer process. The Basque Government, therefore, cannot now wash its hands, look away and untie itself from this situation. But the failure of Euskaltel as a public project put at the service of the political interests of the PNV directly challenges the Basque Government and the PNV, which should give citizens an explanation and a proportionate remedy, as well as explain in detail the economic impact that this sale process is going to have on Euskaldi, because it is going to have them. Because, in the end, let us not forget that public money is not of the Basque Government, not even of the nationalist citizens; it is of all citizens. Obviously, we are going to vote no on this pointless motion, to which we did not consider it worth presenting or amendments; therefore we have not tabled it, in the hope that we will all learn the lesson and that such a story will not be repeated again. Looking to the future, we just want Euskaltel to go well with the new owners; to provide it with the solidity and quality of management and stability that the company has not had so far; to be able to put the company at the service not of a few, but of all its customers; and to be able to generate a lot of employment and wealth for Euskaldi. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u8	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u9	Thank you, President. Good morning, lehendakari, vicelehendakari. Good morning, counselor. Look, the title of the motion is "in relation to the Government's position on the sale of Euskaltel". The question behind this initiative was "What is the government going to do about the disappearance of Basque company Euskaltel?". And Bildu solves this puzzle by claiming that Parliament expresses its discomfort and regrets the role of the Government and Kutxabank, making two considerations: a manifestation of interest and proposing the ratification of an agreement of the last legislature three years ago; all this without urging the Government to take any position or to take any action. And it is curious that only one of the agreements we have adopted in direct or indirect connection with this matter is proposed to be ratified. Mr. Casanova commented in his inquiry that there were four milestones in the future of Euskaltel to this day. I can tell you, Mr Casanova, about many of the debates that we have had directly and indirectly in this Parliament with decisions democratically adopted by the majority of this Parliament. Four milestones in which the Basque Government and Parliament have always acted in accordance with European law and directives, on the basis of the economic situation, with responsibility and on the basis of the principle of realism, having clear – both the Government and the parliamentary groups that support it – both our commitments and the objectives for the industrial development of Euskadi and for employment. First milestone. In 2012, with the lehendakari Patxi López, the Basque Government requested authorization from the Basque Parliament for the transmission to Euskaltel of the telecommunications network and surplus infrastructure and for the sale of shares of Euskaltel owned by the Administration. The Basque Parliament authorises the transmission of the network and surplus infrastructure, as well as the sale of shares owned by the Administration. The dossier for taking that decision contains a report with the explanatory memorandum of the proposal for authorisation, containing the background, the description of the proposed operation, the possibility of subsidizing the network of telecommunications infrastructures owned by the Autonomous Community, the object, the conditions for the transmission of networks and infrastructures and the necessary prior authorisation by Parliament, and concludes with a number of conclusions. That two-phase operation wasn't a gift to anyone. That was a sale that revalued the shares of Euskaltel and also the public assets of the Basque Government, and that allowed investors to enter the company and also paid off a debt for sanctions that was endorsed with the authorization of this Parliament, with a very large number of votes. Second milestone. On the occasion of the launch of Euskaltel in October 2015, following a debate in Parliament, the parliamentary majority of this House adopted the following agreements: "The Basque Parliament ratified the authorisations granted to the Basque Government on 13 August 2012 both for the transmission to Euskaltel of the telecommunications and surplus infrastructure network and for the sale of Euskaltel shares owned by the Basque Autonomous Community Administration". Another agreement: "The Basque Parliament considers it appropriate for Euskaltel to go out on the market, as long as it will be strengthened as a leading operator in the telecommunications sector, it will facilitate its access to more sources of finance and its future growth and development". Third agreement: "The Basque Parliament considers that business management practices must be consistent with the search for improving the competitiveness of companies, but also with the construction of a more equal and just model of society in social and economic terms". Another agreement: "The Basque Parliament considers that the company Euskaltel and its management teams have a commitment to Basque society for the support given by this company to the birth and development of this business project, and calls for its strategic decisions to maintain the company's link with Euskaldi and translate into job creation and commitment to development and innovation". Another agreement with regard to this outflow: "The Basque Parliament considers that the company Euskaltel must establish a climate and quality working conditions in its organisation". Another out-of-pocket agreement: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to continue to promote the creation of new businesses, especially in strategic and emerging sectors, with the participation and assumption of business risk, both by the public and private sectors". And, in this milestone, in addition to establishing new statutes for such a stock exchange, in which it was proposed that the company's takeover of Euskadi required 75% of the shareholder to change the conditions of that takeover, it is also an institutional reproach for the bonuses obtained, then of 44 million euros, to be invested in the company, which is achieved. Another milestone, third milestone. On 6 June 2019, we again had a debate in this Parliament on the measures to be taken in the face of the serious situation in Euskaltel, because Zegona then entered. And then the Basque Parliament approves another amendment, making an agreement that says: "Parliament urges the Basque Government to use all available resources to ensure that Euskaltel has the highest level of roots in Basque territory, in order to ensure commitment to employment, investment, research, technological progress and the development of Euskadi". Another agreement taken in this amendment is that Parliament urges the Government to maintain and improve Euskadi's competitive capabilities, in order to optimize Euskadi's attractiveness as an optimal territory for the rooting-out of tractor companies. Parliament also urges the Government, Kutxabank and the three bank-owned foundations of the bank, aiming at a sound, healthy and sustainable productive model of the Basque Country, to develop a meaningful and sustainable investment policy in strategic enterprises to ensure their attachment to the territory and to ensure the permanence of their decision-making capacity in the Basque Country. Parliament also urges the Government to set up, during the third quarter of 2019, a public-private investment fund, the future of which we have discussed here, and which today has a clear and specific commitment and is under way. In November we again discussed, in this case with a motion, the measures to be taken by the Government to ensure that the telecommunications network, which is largely built with public money, remains in the company Euskaltel, and we approved: "Parliament urges the Government to analyse in depth the purchase of shares of the company Euskaltel, in order to guarantee the company's roots and to try to avoid, as far as possible, the sale of the telecommunications network in Euskaltel". Fourth milestone, Mr. Casanova, which you were also exposing in your inquiry. The friendly OPA of MásMovil a Euskaltel has not yet ended, but it has a favorable shareholder majority, which, in our view, matters a lot. And what matters most are guarantees, that there are guarantees for the employment of Euskaltel. There won't be ERE. The survival of the company and of the brand is granted, the maintenance of the registered office and tax office in Euskadi. And, therefore, there is also an investment commitment, among other areas, in the 5G network. Of all the explanations we have heard so far, of the information we have read and of the opinions given, the Basque Socialists make several considerations. First, that Euskaltel doesn't disappear. Euskaltel will be a company with its own brand, and with its tax and social headquarters in Euskaltel. Employment, activity, investment, services and customers are maintained. At least these are the commitments in five years of the MásMovil company. There is also a clear commitment on the part of the Government to work to take advantage of the new situation in Euskaltel, by providing support for the continuation of the conditions beyond the five-year period. Another topic. The Government's commitment to technological and digital transformation, to the deployment of 5G networks, to artificial intelligence, to the development of the telecommunications sector applied to industry 4.0 are clear and specific commitments of the government programme, and are aligned with the strategies and policies carried out by both the Government of the State and those carried out in Europe. The commitment to digitization has been reflected in the 2030 Science, Technology and Innovation Plan. We have the Euskadi 2025 Digital Transformation Strategy, with an investment of EUR 1.4 billion. And the Basque socialists position themselves in the generation of a scientific, technological and business ecosystem that is attractive to investment and that, from a public perspective, favors business roots, from collaboration with the private sector. For this there are instruments; lately, the public society Finkatze Kapitala Finkatuz SA or the Basque Institute of Finance, which will undoubtedly be tools that will contribute to the development of the tractor and strategic business fabric of Euskadi and its roots. The telecommunications sector is a concentration-oriented sector. The European keys place it in a single market to compete globally. China has three operators; the United States, three companies. Europe goes for the 80 major operators; therefore, a European market that needs to be strengthened if it is to be competitive and not stay out of the digital revolution. And, from the beginning of realism, this completion operation is a challenge, but also an opportunity. Undoubtedly, if we are dealing with one of the four major operators in Spain, this friendly OPA allows us to gain muscle in technological capabilities and in digitisation opportunities for Euskadi. It is an operation that has even been considered positive by Confebask, because it is a pact between two major companies in the country, which has been reached with a high level of consensus among shareholders and because it places Euskaltel at another level in the field of telecommunications. Indeed, the challenges are important. Digitization, investment and technical capacity align with the sector's drive strategy. We all hope that this will end up being good news for the rooting of both companies, for the country and for society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mr. bottoms, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, madam, chief physician, good morning. Well, you are outraged, Mr Casanova and Mr Hernández; you have wanted to visualize here that you have stolen our portfolio and, moreover, you have done so with the connivance of the Basque Government. It's a little bit the message you've come to convey here today. Well, nothing further from reality. Euskaltel is a company that has duplicated, duplicated, duplicated, duplicated and duplicated up to six times its size in the last 25 years. It is a company that has given a capital gain to the Basque taxpayer, directly or indirectly, of 600 million euros, and it has entailed benefits that can not be quantified to all Basque consumers, because it has broken, broke 25 years ago the monopoly that was starring Telefónica, and it has meant, for example, that the fiber network has developed here much faster than elsewhere. We are therefore facing enormous economic success and political success as well. Because I want to remember – also Mr Gil has done this – that this was born in an investment negotiation between the PNV and Aznar, because the only barrier to entry into the market was not an economic barrier, but rather a political regulatory barrier, and therefore that barrier was overcome, we overcome it as a country, and we can now talk about a decisive success. Because, in the case of Euskaltel, we have privatized the risks and published the benefits from the very beginning. Because I would point out to you, Mr Gil: for example, you say, yes, that 40% was from the Basque Government and 60% from the Kutxa. But the conception, from the incubator in which the company was forged, from the beginning, was to give access to private investors, precisely to privatize the risks, contrary to how they have been done elsewhere, in other latitudes, things, where the risks are published and the benefits are privatized – I am talking about concessions of highways, banking, etc. –. The Euscalel Government has put on a seed and has been fertilised and increased in years, by private enterprises being mutilated and fed on public money. And in this way, he has broken the monopoly in Spain, and, for example, he has pushed the optical fibres into the Eucatin. And it happens in all the companies in Europe and in the world, where they have a public capital at first, that the public capital is getting smaller and smaller if the government does not place more money on the table. Why does that happen? There are two cases to be mentioned, and they must be understood. The first is, that when a company begins in unorganised form, most of the companies beginning with the EVOC, begin in unorganised fashion; that is to say, they make small purchases, or capital graduations occur, namely, that when the relative weight of the public part is no longer placed, the more money is diminished, it happens in a natural manner. The size of the public portion of a company that is multiplied by six, if it does not place more money, is smaller and smaller. I don't know if that's physics or mathematics, but scientifically it's the way it is, it's an equation. And in the second place, corporations need enormous funding for growth, especially in telecommunications. And it would be crazy to put it in our budgets every year, if it were a public company, I don't know how much a year? To maintain that 50 million dollars? And, too, the danger that this is about to happen, isn't it? Because, for example, the Iberdron, at the compound of today, has the value of 73 billion euros, BBVA, 29.000 million. I mean, with the entire budget of Esscal Rascal, we wouldn't even have a half-0 of all the Basque companies. I think that rational arguments ought to be given, and realists, knowing what the size of the public part is, and what the condition of the budget is. Ze, what do we want to turn, Mr. Casanova, into a good company? Are we going to play in our country to be a mouse head? Well, in the telecos sector, it's impossible. In the telecommunications sector it is impossible. Today we have known, in that sector where the price struggle is brutal and where people have a habit of changing telephone company every two or three years, that Euskaltel has lost in the first quarter two million euros, and that with all the investments and with a lot of people interested in investing in it. That is, it is a company with a very big future; otherwise, people do not invest the nearly 2 billion euros they are going to invest. But today we know that you lost two million euros in the first quarter. That says it's a sector where there are piranhas, there are piranhas, and you have to have the best teeth to bite the rest. So what model of technological development do we want for our companies and our country? And I am amazed, Mr. Casanova, at your defense of the 5G. Because I come from a small town, which I often set as an example, which is Elorrio, where, for example, his party and also the party of Elkarrekin Podemos have passed a motion that says that 5G is a danger to our health and that it is a danger to public freedoms, because governments will control us from the 5G. So, what do you stand for? The position...? Yeah, yeah. They ask for a moratorium, they ask for a moratorium. In a technological world, where if you lose your way you lose the whole train, or we are among the first, or we will be among the last and we will lose the opportunities that those who arrive first, which in this case are China and the United States. Because 5G is not just giving the internet a higher speed. The 5G is mostly more capable of using the internet, giving a larger opening to start a car, building a traffic light, building a refrigerator, driving from car to traffic from traffic traffic traffic traffic. And there's also the "FrancéCasanova" about the automat development, telemetricization, digital trade, industrial, and so on. And I'm worried that these oppositions are the second and fourth parts of our town. I'd like to know what position you're standing around 5G if you'd like to be on the second round, because the defense you've made today isn't exactly aligned with what you're doing in other places. Bonus theme. We didn't like the executive bonus on the way out of the bag; I don't think it's any secret. And you can say this: we didn't like anything. I, then, was even younger than I am now. But, well, those who would be then didn't like anything. And I think they tried to boycott him – I'm talking about what I read in the press, huh? Now, why did they try to...? Because there is a question, almost pre-political, that the entrepreneur cannot be remunerated just like a manager, because the manager manages, the manager goes up into the company, and the entrepreneur risks, and therefore they are two different logics. And the fact that you bag the amounts that we are seeing in companies to run a company for a few years is therefore a clear imbalance in the system. Now, I'll tell you one thing too: regulate it. You have competence, Mr Hernandez; regulate it. It's just that they seem to be speaking from another reality. You are in the government, you have many congressmen in Congress; rule it out, because you are imbalances that hurt. In the time I've been talking, I don't know, a Messi, for example, has won almost 2,000 euros. Well, those are imbalances that one gets a little indignant, especially if previously companies come from layoffs or adjustments, right? I'll end up thinking about it. I think he's very human, and he's human. And the sea is wide, and we are a small shell, and sometimes we are afraid. I think that's very human, we all feel it. And we're small people, we're small cultures, we're politically small, and we all have that fear, but we can't strengthen our economy. You mentioned the castle, Casanova, we can't make our economy a castle. It has to be something else. If we want to play German league, we have to play Germany's league, not another time. If we fortify our economy, we lose the level of well-being, which is clear to economic science. With this, we will act cunningly in the future with the Finkatuz fund, etc., taking advantage of all opportunities and moving quickly when it is necessary to do so. And this government has always been an example of this, also in the success that Euskaltel has assumed. Euskaltel will remain a Basque company, not only in two years; I am convinced that in seven years too, because we will offer them, we will offer the company a context of prosperity, an acceptable level of profits, of consumers with purchasing power. And that's what we have to work on now, get a country where people have money in their pockets to spend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u12	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Passing on the answers, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u13	Good morning again. Ba, lehenengoz eta behin, PPko ordezkariari esan behar diot teenagers nagoela gauza batan: rarazoiak dauzka gaur pozik egoteko. Zuek eta zuen ideology gaur garaille. Eta, well, zuk esaten duzu: zertara cataz hona? Gertatu da Gertatu behar zena. The dogma of ultra-liberal right-wing politics has been fulfilled in Euskaltel, and the People's Party is therefore pleased. Today the public is privatized. I don't know if there would be anyone's desk mate to give it to him, as the PP did with Telefónica, and Euskal Herria weakens as a country. Therefore, to you, congratulations; today is your day. In Euskaltel, what the PP would like has been done. Now, I think the rest, then, from that finding, we should make ourselves look at it. La señora Corcuera un accerto, y que que que ha passo mayoría de intervención leyéndono accerdos, y, por dot, well, así ha cubitore un po eccente. De alí constato dos croas. First, that all these agreements are confirmed by all; that is to say, during the process of privatization and litigation, that the Socialist Party and the Euciad Party have been protected at all critical moments, as you have mentioned yourself. And the second conjugation: of all these agreements which have been made, the Arkbanks and the water-makers of the Basques have taken what they ought to have done, and have thrown what they should not have done in the garbage. They did. They took advantage of your chances to do what they wanted. But then, when you used to say shooting, bonds, no fun... I mean, nothing in there, but they got a company with the white check you gave them, the way they did. With regard to the PNV, I, look, I don't know, I imagine I know, we all know the 1984 book. You, until March, until March, were saying that the process of expansion in the state was a wonder, and that Zegona's commitments came to us from a fable, and that was the way. You call them on the phone and they say, "Look, it turns out that MásMovil wanted to buy/merge with Vodafone." They did not agree; then, MásMovil, which had the paste already activated, says: "Well, now I buy Euskaltel", which was plan B. And they say, "Hey, MoreMobile is going to buy Euskaltel." And then, now we have to play at the Champions. There is now a concentration of operators. Now you praise the oligopoly. The little thing can't. From one day to the next, you pass them a note saying that you have changed the script of the company, and you change the script. Because what it denotes is that behind there is no country vision, there is no vision of the Basque Government that can design and lead a process of developing telecommunications and the role of key companies such as Euskaltel within that process. And this has become evident, and has also caused a fracture; not only the criticism of Euskal Herria Bildu, but also of the business world, including the business world to a large extent made up of people related to the Basque Nationalist Party. You know perfectly well that this has generated shock, among other things by the managers they threw out at the time. But there are also people from other companies who have another view of the country that does not coincide with their advocacy of oligopoly. Because you can even get to mergers, and a company can grow, as you say, and slow down participation. But the bigger a company, the more significant it is a small participation. You, with 2% of Iberdrola, are captain general; with 2% of Euskaltel, you are not in the picture. So, you can still bet on being in those companies, as France and Germany bet, which are the examples I bring you here – then, Mr Erkoreka says that if we talk about Venezuela or North Korea, with our models, he said the other day at the Security Board. I am talking to you about France and Germany; that you want to play in that league; that Germany vetoes the sale of strategic companies; that France and Germany have money in automotive companies; that Renault does not move a finger without the French Government saying what needs to be done. That is, we are not talking here – as Mrs Tapia said – about communism for staying in companies that are private but have a public participation aimed at being able to influence them and to be able to implement, in addition to business logic, also a certain sense of respect for the country that is committed by the country and of respect for trade union and labour practices. Because I don't want to finish – I'm running out of time – without remembering those workers. You said, "The risks have been privatized and the benefits published." The benefits have been published, but who took it here, who took it raw? If the bonuses, the 75 million bonuses are calderilla. The funds that went in to save Euskaltel sealed 600 million, 600; Zegona over 100, and Kutxabank probably around 800. Where are the public benefits? And the Basque Government sold for 68 euros what is now valued at more than 1 billion: the fiber optic network. I said I wanted to finish talking about workers. I said it the other day, and now I say again: They're asking for $2500,000 pay rates paid by the directors. To pay for this quantity, there would be as much money as three centuries. This is your example, this is your example. I confirm: Small and average companies can compete, they're competing, and you've given up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u14	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u15	You've given up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u16	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. We represent the PodemusIU team together. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u17	Well, I will start by taking up the issue where Mr Casanova has left it, reminding me that I do not know if it can be defined as collateral damage in this whole privatization process, which in our opinion has an absolutely negative impact both on the social purposes of a company created with public money and on what value added for the economic development of the country can have, which is what the workers have suffered and are suffering, because, as I said before, at this time it is absolutely embarrassing that contrast between a figure of about 260,000 euros that could imply the rise, the adequacy of the wages frozen since 2019, and that share of dividends among shareholders. And to see if now the problem of a process of privatization of many years is going to be that the government of which my coalition has been part for a year has not regulated to put a stop to certain policies that parties like yours have promoted, and quite clearly, in this matter of Euskaltel. That's why it seems to us that, of course, they're not floral games, Mr. Gil Vegas. It is true that it is a political declaration that this Parliament would approve with this motion, but little more can be done, first of all, with the correlation of forces and with the history that has existed, because the People's Party has been absolutely responsible also in this whole process, from how Euskaltel was created to how Euskaltel was privatized. "Practical results," says Mr. Gil Vegas; that this initiative would not have "practical results." Practical results are what the People's Party has done, which is complicit in this whole matter. And it also tells us that this involved a process of national construction. Well, the People's Party must have been a necessary partner in that process of nationalist or nationalist construction that you have pointed out. It is not a matter of struggle or debate between nationalists; it is a debate between policies in the defense of the common or the public and policies in the defense of the private. Because this last OPA – I said it before and that's why I was telling Mrs Corcuera, because she has referred to it as a pact between two companies in the country; also Mr Gil Vegas has done so and that's why they're not going to get involved – don't get confused: it's not a pact between two companies in the country; it's a pact between the owners of those companies, who are financial capitalists, who are stateless, who have no homeland. And the Basque Nationalist Party tells us that we cannot from the public intervene in strategic companies, that we cannot have a strong position in strategic companies, that in the world of telecommunications is impossible, that that would prevent the necessary development of such companies. Euskaltel's financial growth has not responded either to the social interest or the interest of the service that Euskaltel should provide and that Euskaltel should provide; it has responded to other needs, to those speculative needs for which some have made a lot of money. Nor was it true that risks had been privatized and profits had been made public. Count; I will not repeat some data that Mr Casanova has given, but count, who has won and who has lost. You, to defend this, are left with some cases of specific companies, but do not recognize that there are powerful companies in the world of telecommunications that are public. There are examples in the world; I am going to put only one, that of Antel's case, in Uruguay. And, with regard to the size of the necessary investment that you hold or have held that it would not have been, in some way, possible, you know that Kutxabank's industrial portfolio in 2012 was €4 billion. That makes it possible for us not to be head of mouse, but something else, it is true that six years later, thanks also to those policies of less than 1 billion euros. On the other hand, public funds announced to invest around EUR 160 million. That is why we, once again, today, in our amendment, as we have done before, are talking about public banking and talking about the tools necessary for such actions to be carried out from the public to maintain control of companies that are strategic and that must have other purposes that are not only those of the private profit of large financial institutions. That's possible. There are tools to have those policies, which would allow us to play in the first division in this world of globalized capitalism. Another issue is that we want to defend other policies.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u18	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mist Group Representative... Popular-Ciudad Group repetitive. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Casanova, I'm sorry to disappoint you. No, we're not happy with this situation. We don't like it at all. Let's see if it turns out this outcome is our fault. No, we're not happy with this situation. Although I also tell you that, from the beginning – I already know that it is many years, but I am also many years old – this was seen to come. It was obvious, it was obvious. But we don't like how this story ended. Finally, it does not seem to us that this is an issue that should be taken up too long, because today it is an operation between two private companies. Whether we like it or not, this is the realistic situation. And, well, there will be many more such operations today in Euskadi – today or this week or this month – between private companies, which we are not going to talk about. We talk about this for history, for origin, for what has happened before. But you'll recognize with me that reviewing history only makes sense to learn from it. And I'm not sure... well, I'm sure that, in your motion, there's no lesson to learn. And yes, I think we should take it out; yes, I think that, from a history of so many years, so much money, so many actors involved, so much impact on Basque society, we should draw some shared conclusion. Well, I have to tell you the truth. I don't like the executive bonus either. I didn't like it when it was done before. I don't like it when it's done in any company. I admit it's a common practice in certain business environments, but I don't like it. I don't like it. But it is also true that it is legal, and it is also true that there is nothing to prevent it. And there are so many things in the world that I don't like that I have to shut up and hold on to... Finally, that said, today we see in the press the news that, as has already been recalled, Euskaltel goes into losses, with a loss in the first quarter of 2 million euros. Well, less bad that it's been sold, because, if not, we'd have to cover it up. Finally, it is true that we are talking about a market in which it is not possible to compete with sizes like the one Euskaltel had. This is not generalistic: this does not happen for all markets or for other realities. But there are markets – and this is one, that of telecommunications – in which, in fact, there is only one way; if you enter, there is only one way, which is either growing, or dying. Why? Because there is ruthless competition, because it has become completely globalised. And whether we like it or not, we deserve one trial or another, this is the reality that we must assume. And it is true that Euskaltel, in such a market, had no choice but to grow or die. And, of course, to grow there was no alternative but to go to the capital market. And, therefore, of course, there are investment funds that, in fact, like when you're going to buy a house the bank lends you money, when you're going to grow up in a company, the capital funds offer you money. And, of course, they put their conditions, and of course they do it to make money, just like the bank does. That's the usual financial market. But it is true that it is impossible to grow up or that it is impossible to compete with a company that size. Well, in that sense, I still think that Euskaltel is a wealth for Euskadi, and I hope that it will continue to be, as are many other private companies operating in our country and working here and serving our customers, as well as companies that are not from here and also serving our citizens. Exactly the same. It's a wealth. And what I hope is that, instead of criticizing what has happened, we either focus on learning from it, or we do something even better, which is to focus on seeing how we generate the conditions for many more companies to be generated, so that there are many more business initiatives of this kind, which will then, in fact, be sold, will not be sold... As long as we do not lose money in the public sphere, what we really need is to create a dynamic and entrepreneurial business environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u20	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u21	Thank you, President. I repeat something, Mr Casanova, that I know that it is difficult for Bildu to understand and that, moreover, it is particularly disturbing to him, and that we repeat what the agreements adopted by this House have been. But you do not have any pain in putting on clothes today on the initiative that Parliament regrets, rejects those agreements that have been adopted. And that bothers me especially, too, that you don't recognize those agreements. And that is why I am calling them back, because I think it cannot be that you make their history, their approach, without taking into account what the democratic agreements adopted by this Parliament have been, because the government does not act because it does; because the Basque Socialists, as a parliamentary group, do not act because they give us a fan. We act because, moreover, we promote a series of agreements, which are then approved and not approved on some occasions. I therefore suggest that you respect the views of this Parliament. I don't know if when you make those decisions you assume that we're traitors to a cause you've invented and that you've considered that... Today he called us traitors and stayed so wide. Look, traitor is not doing anything when decisions are taken and decisions adopted and agreed by this Parliament are promoted. On today's initiative, Mr Casanova, there was not a single duty for the Basque Government, not a single one. And in his motion there was not a single alternative, nor a single alternative model. It's all about explaining what your frustration has been, blaming others, but you haven't asked what the model is. And to claim Basque sovereignty in the telecommunications sector today, in the year 2021, so let me tell you: I think it is a chimera. But if, moreover, its objective is that Parliament withdraws from the institutional decisions taken, then it is already beginning to be a waste of time. I can swallow the chimera, but the misconception already costs me more. And I think you'll understand. We are indeed in a global economy. The government cannot and should not play Monopoly with the money of Basque citizenship; it cannot afford it. Look, the last legislature had a parliamentarian talking about how much that participation would cost; it was talking about EUR 800 million. Now we know that MásMovil seeks a 100% purchase of Euskaltel for EUR 2 billion. And we counted the last legislature with a fund that talked about a possibility of 250 million euros, a public-private fund. Today we are faced with a fund of 160 million, with the possibility of extending over the course of the legislature by 300 million. But what are we going to buy? But what are we going to participate in? And I think that requires a principle of realism. And that's the one you're missing, Mr. Casanova. And it will bring 300 more initiatives, but we will continue to be in a rather surreal debate, because not wanting to recognize reality is a real problem. And that does not require the thick line and blame and offend and insult the rest of the parliamentary groups in this House. Look, we believe that the Administration has to do now, to carry out this whole operation, is to be vigilant, vigilant that the conditions that are agreed are actually carried out, that this is not that in a couple of months we forget and here there is ERE or you change your registered office or you change your tax office. I do not think so, and I also think that the government has intended to work with the company so that we can have a better future of Euskaltel in Euskadi. In times of uncertainty like the ones we live in, we can understand as normal the economic controversy, the political controversy that can, of course, generate an OPA in the telecommunications sector, even if that OPA is really friendly. But, if we have any certainty, of course, the Basque Socialists, it is that we are already in times of digital transformation, of technological transformation, in which governments have an important challenge, and they also have commitments and responsibilities for the future of Europe, of Spain and of Euskadi. That is why we are asking for less sovereignist antagonisms, more heights of vision, prudence, responsibility and vision for the future; because no one, no one, no parliamentary group in this House, no parliamentarian has put Euskal Herria on sale. At least that is how the Basque Socialists feel, Mr Casanova.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Barbarese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u23	Thank you. Euskaltel has the headquarters here and will continue to have the headquarters here in seven years, because the logic of the market is in our favor. And someone will tell me, "I don't trust market logic." Neither do I, but I do trust the preferences of Basque consumers. Because, on the day that Euskaltel is called Dublintel, Paristel or Madridtel, they are going to give him soups with depth, they are going to give him soups with depth, and that is the main strength, and that is the main justification of the root that Euskaltel is going to have, not in five years, but in seven years and in ten; because, if they lose that, they lose the clientele. Mr. Casanova, yes, 1984 It's a shame I didn't give you time to talk about the 5G and clarify your contradictions around the 5G. Which leads me to think, since you have done it wanting because you do not want to position yourself on the subject, that Bildu has no industrial or technological model for this country. Ze, eredu bat eredu iziko, koherentzia bat eduki behar du, eta kasu guztietan aplikatzeko izan behar da. Why not bring here, for example, the 5G or, for example, Corrugated Azpeitia? Why don't you bring up issues about those who apparently don't have a position or those about which the position you take bothers some of you? Well, because they don't have a specific model. They have positions on specific cases; for example, today's, Euskaltel. Mr. Hernandez, well, your ideology solidified like a stalactite 170 years ago, and every 100 years it grows one centimeter. So, your model of all audiences, all audiences... Politicians mismanage private companies, because the money that is played in the party is not ours, and we are not good. This is not to say that public participation in private enterprise is bad; quite the contrary. Before yesterday Councilwoman Tapia, Mrs Tapia, announced, for example, that they would be interested in buying a stake in ITP Aero. We talked about expanding the Finkatuz fund. The State also has SEPI. Therefore, we do not say that public participation in the private sector is wrong, but it cannot be the norm; it must be the exception. Because, if we publish, if we nationalize – let us speak in certain terms – all the strategic sectors, which for you are almost all, it is that there is no public budget that supports that, except in the communist countries, where the size of the productive sector is always smaller and much worse valued. Well, I don't have time to talk about France and just a note. France has 82 private holdings; in all but two, it has a holding of less than 20%. It has just risen by 20 % KLM-Air France, which is its flag airline; and then they have 100 % of a company that manages nuclear power plants. But, well, there are other cases where there is 100% public participation. Mail is public; in short, there are many companies. But I say again: that cannot be the norm; that must be the exception. Then, aukerak daudenean, zuhurkeriaz hartu eta baliatu; adibidez, Azpeitian. Hartu eta baliatu. The bathroom's the wrong moduan ezin dugu hori bultzatu. I'd like to finish by repeating an invitation the President made, by sending me, and by sending to MásMovil that MásMovil is in earnest. He'll be inside the Basques for years. So it's not a speculation, it's an investment. Let's give him a chance. We'll have the place here, and we'll continue to keep it here, because we've got a complete advantage, and it's that our people want to see Euscaltel Euskadin. So that's the biggest factor that's gonna keep shooting. So let's trust him. We've got five years left, so let's keep going, how are things? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u24	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. The discussion is over, and we're going to go back to the vote, and we're going to roll up EH, and together we're rectification that the Podemos-IU teams have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 41; 75; the supporters are 27; the contrary is 48; the abscesssions are 0; white, 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u25	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Third point in theme list: "The patrioticist and Basque Socialists propose as the parlamentary groups, as in Nicaragua, to encourage and protect human rights. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr Pricee, the Basque Socialist, represents the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u26	President, ladies and gentlemen. This initiative that we present today by Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups aims to be a speaker of Nicaraguans who suffer human rights violations and also one more act of solidarity, as the one carried out on 4 October 2018 in this House following the serious events of violence and repression of the same year in April. We want to do this as a speaker, because we have been asked by Nicaraguan exiles, some of whom are accompanying us today, comrades who are suffering this situation, displaced from the country in which they want to live. And, therefore, we want to show solidarity, because it is part of our conscience, of our ethical requirement, because the denunciation of human rights violations should never remain silent. Nicaragua is not a country outside our political reality. In Spain, in 2018, there were 1,365 asylum applications, resulting in more than 15 times the number made in 2017. An exodus that began when the mobilization of students, contrary to social security reform, was violently answered by the Government, causing demonstrations to spread throughout the country. Then, violent repression increased, resulting in hundreds of deaths, disappearances, injuries and multiple human rights violations. Nicaragua, Nicaraguans are familiar to us. More than 57,000 live in Spain, the majority of whom are women – more than 40,000. In 2020, 3,750 Nicaraguans applied for humanitarian asylum. According to the UN agency for refugees, more than 108,000 people from Nicaragua have been forced to leave their country. In 2018, according to CEAR data, 1,595 applications for international protection from Venezuela, Nicaragua, Colombia and Honduras were registered. Of these, 973 were in Bizkaia, 385 in Alava and 237 in Gipuzkoa. In 2019 the trend was to double those figures. I said at the beginning that the initiative we are dealing with was intended to be a speaker and to exercise solidarity. That is why the initiative presented faithfully reflected the part of the report of the UN Human Rights Council, of its meeting held at the end of March, on the promotion and protection of human rights in Nicaragua, which we were asked to do so by Nicaraguan colleagues. We want to be useful, to raise our voice, to add support for Nicaragua to regain rights, freedoms; for no one to have to flee; for repression to cease; for free and democratic elections to be held at the end of this year, when they are called. We have not promoted a partisan initiative; we have wanted to help, as Amnesty International wants, when it denounces that the authorities have devoted themselves to eradicating, at any cost, activism and the defence of human rights. According to Amnesty International, the images of the violent repression against mass protests that emerged in response to a series of reforms to the social security system filled the front pages of the major newspapers around the world in 2018. It seemed that the human rights crisis in the country had reached its highest point. However, they say, the nightmare continues. Amnesty International continues to report that local organizations continue to denounce how the Government uses the judiciary to imprison activists in arbitrary proceedings. By the end of November 2020, when that report was finalized, more than 100 people were still behind bars just for exercising their rights to freedom of expression and peaceful assembly. Local organizations interviewed by Amnesty International reported that dozens of people detained for political reasons suffer from medical conditions that make them particularly vulnerable to COVID-19. According to testimonies collected by Amnesty International, although some detainees have shown symptoms that could be compatible with the virus, the tests are virtually non-existent, as well as medical care or health care. As we leave the prisons – Amnesty International continues to say – the situation does not improve substantially. Incarcerated activists and their families report that harassment after returning home is such that it prevents them from carrying out their daily activities, such as working or studying, and they continue their activism under a situation of high risk to their lives and freedom. The constant threats and harassment have caused hundreds of thousands of people, including journalists and human rights defenders, to flee to other countries to safeguard their freedom and their lives. The options were prison, cemetery or exile. Human rights defenders fear that the worst has not yet come. They claim that, in the pre-election context in view of the November 2021 presidential elections, human rights violations, which have not been stopped, will escalate, while the Government seeks to silence any form of opposition or criticism. Amnesty International adds: "Achieving justice in Nicaragua seems impossible. The international community must take decisive steps to stop the nightmare in which the population lives and take actions that provide full support to all those who maintain their struggle for a Nicaragua free of repression. We will not stop in our denunciation work until the Nicaraguan Government is held accountable for its actions and puts an end to human rights violations." Let us see another testimony from another humanitarian organization. Oxfam Internacional rejects the decision recently taken by the National Assembly of Nicaragua to annul the legal personality of the Nicaraguan Centre for Human Rights. They say: "No context justifies the cancellation of the legal personality of those who defend human rights. These measures increase the defencelessness of Nicaraguan citizens in the face of the growing violations and abuses of human rights by the Nicaraguan State, and further push us further away from the possibility of reaching a solution to the country's crisis." Oxfam has also shown its rejection of the suspension of the mission of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, stating that they reject this determination of the Nicaraguan Government, which does not contribute to the search for viable solutions to the political and social crisis in the country. An action that has been fundamental to understanding the causes and knowing those responsible for the multiple cases of human rights violations in recent months in Nicaragua. They also consider access to justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition to be key conditions for a peaceful solution to the crisis. For its part, another humanitarian organization, Médecins Sin Fronteras, reports that in 2019 its teams in Nicaragua expanded their activities to provide medical, psychological or psychiatric care to people affected by widespread political and social violence. Throughout the year, Médecins Sin Fronteras provided medical and mental health care to victims of traumatic episodes experienced during armed conflict or while in detention. The testimonies of humanitarian organizations, as can be seen, are endless. But with these, with those already mentioned, the situation is credited, apart from ideologies or governmental biases, which is a little what we have tried to avoid. Ladies and gentlemen, the coming weeks are crucial for the future of Nicaraguans. If there are no consensual electoral reforms before the end of May so that the elections are free, on equal terms, fully democratic and transparent, Nicaragua will remain in the dark. There are elections that can help to recover rights, freedoms, democracy, or that can make it worse, that can increase confrontation and violation of human rights. We know and hope that the solution will be found in Nicaragua and among Nicaraguans. And that is why and for this reason we have proposed this initiative, to act as a speaker and contribute to solidarity with the Nicaraguan social majority. As can be seen, our intention is not to hold a political debate of confrontation between us, but to join this movement of international solidarity, so that, almost counter-clockwise, a dialogue can be established between the political forces in Nicaragua, between the Government and the opposition, which will facilitate electoral reforms in time so that the next elections can be a point and apart from the situation of human rights violations and economic and social hardship that that country is experiencing, in order to move to a more solidarity situation, much better from a political point of view, from a social and also economic point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u27	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Aguire, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u28	Yeah. Thank you, Mr President. And good morning to all. Nicaraguan protests started on April April 2018, just three years ago. And protests arose after a reform of Social Security, which made it very painful, both in the company and in society. We all know that demonstrations had been in the capital at first, and in it a small peaceable gathering of retired men demanded an end of reforms, a small peaceful gathering of retired parties. But although they were retired and had a peaceful march, the police attacked them very severely. However, Ortega's violent answer to these protests produced a violent answer, and ended in a national rebellion. After this violent repression, the demonstrations began to demand an end of the term, and everywhere. The government caused hundreds of dead, thousands of missing and dozens of prisoners, and consequently more than 80,000 people were forced to go into exile. A few weeks ago, the international institutions for human rights have prescribed crimes against the people in Nicaragua against humanity. From 2018, Ortega has given no cease to any kind of discidity or criticism. His government attacked tactics at any cost to defend the activism and the human rights, and the regime has used all kinds of tactics to stifle the dissidity of Nicaragua. And that's not what I'm saying. That's all that's said by the Amnesty Internationale. For Amnesty International, Nicaragua is, today, the country facing one of the worst human rights crises in the western hemisphere, and also at a very worrying level. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, that of Michelle Bachelet, former President of Chile, issued a demolishing report against the regime in 2018, accusing her of committing widespread human rights violations, including arbitrary arrests of demonstrators by armed groups under Ortega's orders. And some of these unjustly detained persons were then raped and tortured while in custody in official government buildings. "The degree of repression so high," the report continued, "has forced thousands of citizens into exile simply by expressing opinions contrary to the Sandinista leader, or after brutally repressed demonstrations demanding the end of Daniel Ortega's term." But just two months ago, in February of this year, the Office itself of the High Commissioner again criticized the Ortega Government for the total failure to comply with the recommendations issued in that report three years ago. The UN assures in this last report that the Government has not complied with the re-establishment of dialogue to overcome the crisis, and then continues with a long list of additional criticisms. Among them, he criticized the lack of guarantees for the exercise of the right to peaceful assembly or of freedom of expression and association. He also noted that the Government had not established sanctions for those who attacked or intimidated human rights defenders, nor had it taken effective measures to prevent and eradicate torture. It also stresses that the Government has not brought criminal legislation into line with international standards, nor has it made legislative reforms that can ensure fair, transparent and democratic elections. If that were not enough, the Bachelet Office added that the Ortega Government had not established a plan to investigate human rights violations or the disarticulation of pro-government elements and armed groups. He goes on to say: "In several respects, steps have been taken, such as the adoption of several legislative reforms that are totally incompatible with international human rights standards." And, elsewhere in this devastating report, the Commissioner's Office also regrets the adoption of an amnesty that paved the way for impunity for those responsible for serious human rights violations. In this context, the UN is also concerned that the Government continues to deny the existence of paramilitary armed groups and the existence of what it calls violent mobs, which have participated in the repression of demonstrations since 2018. Nicaragua will make the general elections next November 7th. But today, it's true that President Ortega controls the entire election system, from top to bottom. And we demand a real form of election: the free, just, transparent, and international observers. We also demand an end to the reduction of free-melbition, and not a police officer in command to regulate the activities of the campaign. We believe that there will only be conditions for democratic elections, first, with the immediate release of all political prisoners and prisoners in Nicaragua and with the full restoration of civil liberties and rights. Electoral reforms must be urgently undertaken in order to give credibility to the electoral process and to overcome the crisis that Nicaragua has been experiencing for years. These proposals must include the complete restructuring of the Supreme Electoral Council, the purification of the electoral pattern, the national and international observation of the electoral process and, of course, the immediate dissemination of results on election night. There is but a short time, and we believe that all democratic forces have to press to make reforms as soon as possible. And finally the last thing: In 1979, we were delighted with the end of Somoza's dictatorship, but today, we can't be happy that Daniel Ortegas is emulating the first dictator. That's unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u29	Thank you, Mr Aguire. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections to the popular Basque Group, Mr Barrius, who represents the Ciudad Group, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u30	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to all the parliamentarians, and, as my colleagues have also done, I greet the Nicaraguan representation that accompanies us today. This statement that we will adopt, which will have the vote in favour of the Basque People's-Citizens parliamentary group, is not an interference, as some group will want to point out later; it is a democratic necessity. It is a cry for democracy, for human rights. President Daniel Ortega continues to try to remain in power, relying on repression, in a state police apparatus that aims to placate and prevent any dissent, and more after the bloodbath caused by the 2018 protests by that lethal machine of the police state, the police and the paramilitaries who support Ortega. The electoral reforms approved to underpin his regime are a democratic mockery. And the opposition demands – at the risk of being arrested, persecuted or tortured – the help of the world, the help of international bodies, the European Union, the Organization of American States, the United States, and other countries to which this opposition tries to cling to in order to find support. And it has to be us, the Basques and the Spanish, who also try to help a brotherly people like Nicaragua in relation to their democratic claims. That is why these kinds of statements are absolutely relevant, as was the one of 2018 by this House, and they are also necessary. The siege against the opposition is also practised against the press. All there is to see is articles, testimonies of journalists, of reporters who talk about the systematic harassment of the press is a fact in Nicaragua at the moment by the state apparatus and repressive, as well as against young people, students, who were already protagonists of the protests of 2018, and against the Catholic Church itself, also in the 18th, whose temples were the scene of many of the meetings in relation to the request for freedoms. And, today, many of Nicaragua's bishops continue to be accused of terrorists and coupsmen for hosting those protests in 2018, and, in addition, many priests and many religious have suffered brutal repression as well, as has happened with members of the opposition, students or journalists. Ortega is increasingly isolated internationally, is basically isolated internationally, and increasingly only in his own country, although surrounded by that repressive state machinery, that police state. The truth is that it impresses, in these years, to read the main media of the international press regarding Nicaragua. Impression. It scares the situation, and that the only one that is consolidated in that country is a dictatorship, a police state that hates the world and its own nationals. We too, our group, the Popular-Citizens parliamentary group, have had contact with members of the Nicaraguan opposition, the Nicaraguan democratic opposition, as we also had in the last parliamentary term, in 2018, with representatives of the students who visited us and who made this Parliament speak in a strong way in relation to what the Nicaraguan people were suffering. And I am not going to repeat myself; Mr Prieto and Mr Aguirre have already given important data on asylum, the flight situation of many Nicaraguan nationals. And we, with our statement, that is, I endorse the statement signed by the nationalist and socialist groups. I make the statement, I make the statement. We will be, we want to be useful; as they have said, useful to democracy, useful to the defence of human rights in Nicaragua. And, also, as has already been reported in the media, more than 90 social and political organizations from the Nicaraguan diaspora asked yesterday the Secretary General of the OAS, of the Organization of American States, Luis Almagro, to demand the approval of electoral reforms in Nicaragua to guarantee free and fair elections in November. Indeed, with that search for support in the OAS, through its Secretary General, its member states must be able to influence that situation in one way or another. In conclusion, we have simply tabled an amendment adding to the original initiative. We also wanted, because it was significant and clear the compromise amendment to the non-legislative proposal presented by this group concerning the situation of violence in Nicaragua, to recall that pronouncement, that pronouncement which was also of this House, and we wanted to insert the paragraph, which I hope will be adopted: that the Basque Parliament recalls and reiterates the concerns, considerations and demands made in the non-legislative proposal adopted by the plenary of the House of 4 October 2018, concerning the situation of violence in Nicaragua. I won't remember... There are the minutes and the compromise amendment, but it was a clear statement condemning the acts of violence that occurred in Nicaragua in those months of 2018 in relation to the violation of the right to life, the right to assembly, to demonstration, to freedom of expression. We demanded research, we expressed our concern, we also urged other international organizations to take letters on the matter, and, of course, what we did basically is what we continue to do now: to denounce the serious anti-democratic drift of President Daniel Ortega, an anti-democratic drift that we denounced in 2018 – now it is getting worse and worse, in relation to his desire for perpetuation in a dictatorial regime – and at that time we denounced that great anti-democratic drift of President Ortega and his Government, which certainly wished hard and difficult times for the people of Nicaragua. That's what we said in 2018. It is clear that this has unfortunately been confirmed, and we are not going to escape that denunciation, condemnation and demand, as far as we can, for democratic reforms and the end of the Ortega dictatorship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u31	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. We represent the Podemos-IU team together. Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u32	Good morning. Thank you, ma'am. Welcome, also, to this plune, all the delegates from Nicaragua. And, first of all, I'd like to hear what we said in 2018. And, too, I'd like a couple of ideas to begin with. First, that we're in front of another, like 12 points, una enmidaa a la totalidad ècoríamos decirana a un país. It's a complex model to get to an international theme, because it's hard to imagine. For instance, we have just signed, as it were, two other laws concerning Honduras and Colony, between four parlamentary groups, in order to find particular subjects and agreements and consensiities. The second is, that we all have reached the subject in a wide manner, but in a certain sense we have come to speak of it, as well as those who propose it, and the greater part of the groups which we have set before us about Nicaragua. There's a couple of things left outside, and I'm willing to admit my mistake on this point, but we should get hold of both issues. Perhaps, by looking too far away from the situation, we have forgotten to talk about two fundamental problems, in addition to others that I will now speak about, which are the situation with the two hurricanes, Eta and Iota, in Central America, which particularly affected Nicaragua, which still affects thousands and thousands of people, and which has resulted in losses for more than $800 million and a fall in GDP of 6.2%. It would have been good if this Parliament had also urged the Basque Government, the Government of Spain and the European Union to increase cooperation and cooperation in this regard. And then, also, as here, but with the specific conditions of Nicaragua and Central America, the brutal impact of COVID on both health and socio-economic crisis, and this Parliament has lost a precious opportunity to ask governments, and especially the European Union, to liberalize patents so that developing countries, such as Nicaragua and other Latin American and Central American countries, could access vaccines in a more equal way, just as we are doing in the European Union. Hirugarrena, jatorrizko proposemenean, azkenengo puntuan, Nikaraguako Gobernuari eskatzen zio negatzea eta elkarrizketak izaziorekin. He's a good lad. Dialogue is the first premise for reaching an agreement. Well, well, that didn't exist in this initiative. Neither of the two proposing groups, neither the Socialist Group nor the Nationalist Group, has contacted my group to try to speak, to try to negotiate. An innovative way to understand dialogue. Because you were also surprised by the possibility of agreement, but neither of you wanted to. Nevertheless, we shall begin to dispute, and endeavour to explain the principal ideas of our conduct. And then, if the voters accept it, I'd ask them to vote on points. In line with the statements that this Parliament has adopted with our support and, even, with our impetus on many occasions and with the utmost anguitist that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights is the best political programme that any political force can present as a contract and commitment to society, we support the work of all activists, of all human rights defenders in Nicaragua and call for respect for and protection of their work, as reflected and requested in this latest report by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. And hence our first point of request that the activity of social movements, feminist movements, social movements, of course the press and any other movement that may be wanted to develop in peace and normality be protected and can be made free anywhere and, of course, in Nicaragua. We can say the same, of course, for political activism. In addition, we show our support, as it could not otherwise be, in line with what I said at the beginning, at point five, with regard to the rights of the indigenous peoples of the United Nations and respect for the right to prior consultation, but not only the right and guarantee of being able to develop in peace and freedom community projects safely for the lives of indigenous communities; in Nicaragua, too. And we agree, too, with the fourth point, that the more efficient measures must be taken to prevent sexual and generic strength and to fight against it, including the killings of the genus. The power of justice must be strengthened, and the policy of prevention and the educational program is strengthened. And that's supposed to be a social movement. Human rights have been the first. Secondly, we reject all violences here and Nicaragua. In 2018, it was a very serious political crisis in Nicaragua. And we absolutely disapprove of the answer the government gave him, a counter-repressive and extravagant answer. But in this context we reject all the violence and murder done by certain conflicting groups. We reject any arbitrary detention and any disproportionate use of force, here and in Nicaragua. In the same vein, we urge to follow the recommendations of the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights accepted by the parties in the framework of the national dialogue, launched after the crisis of 2018 and suspended in 2019. Since then, we have been calling, with various initiatives, for a re-establishment of dialogue. And, as I said, in addition to us and other groups that have also said it here, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights also requests it. In this regard, we welcome the release of more than 620 people detained in the context of the 2018 crisis, and we call for the continuation of this process. We also believe that reconciliation commissions can be a good way for dialogue among people who think differently, and that, together with other mechanisms, they can contribute to the three basic principles that, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, we establish and support to resolve any political conflict that has had, in addition, violent consequences and violation of human rights: clarification of the truth, guarantees of justice and mechanisms of non-repetition. And therefore in our correction, we demand that the Government of Nicaragua knows the greatest protection to the victims of the events of 2018, that is to say, to their political filigation; that is to say, to the interests of the Government, and to the party of opposition. And we ask that the government of Nicaragua be satisfied with the standards of the legal protection and protection of rights. Even in our correction, we demand the authorities of Nicaragua to re-establish the right of all men who are without freedom, and to apply the conditions of confinement to the least rules of the United Nations for the treatment of prisoners. Finally, dialogue and elections. This year, 2021, there will be elections in the Republic of Nicaragua. For our part – so it is collected and so we do again – we urge the electoral authorities to guarantee participatory elections and free elections. At this time, the Supreme Electoral Council is being renewed with the participation of various parties. And we hope and urge that there be an agreement in that regard, which will contribute to the normal development of the elections. To this end, mutual recognition of all parties and inclusive dialogue among all parties are essential. The international community must help in that regard, by dialogue with the Government and by dialogue with the opposition sectors. As a result of our commitment to free elections throughout Latin America, including Nicaragua, regardless of the political colour of the Government of each country, my parliamentary group submitted a non-legislative proposal to the Congress of Deputies, which was adopted on 21 December, and which urged the Government of Spain and the European Union to contribute in this regard. That is our commitment to Nicaragua and to all the countries of the Latin American region. At the same time, we believe that the sanctions imposed in recent years against certain government leaders and public and private companies do not help, let alone in a time of crisis. Sanctions that, as you have heard me talk about other sanctions to other countries, are illegal under international law, because they can only be approved by the United Nations Security Council. Therefore, while we call for inclusive dialogue, we call for an agreement so that the free elections can be held. And we also announce that this process has to be done, and we will accept the outcome of that dialogue process. Of course, and as in all the initiatives we take in this regard, our principle, in addition to the principle of the defence of human rights, is the principle of non-interference in that process. Only the people of Nicaragua must have a voice and vote to decide their future. Let us contribute to it in freedom and in normalcy. On the human rights agenda, as you have seen, although you have not wanted to do, we can find ourselves, although not on the interference agenda. For our part, we respect the people's word here and Nicaragua. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u33	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Unite the EH team as representative. Madam Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u34	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Good morning and welcome to all the guests. I'd like to start talking to you in 2018. Writing about Nicaragua is as painful and sad as it is indispensable. Reading about Nicaragua is as painful and sad as it is indispensable. Hearing about Nicaragua is as painful and sad as it is indispensable. And talking about Nicaragua is as painful and sad as it is indispensable. And so we began this discussion, and two years later we continue to think the same thing. What he writes, we want to hear what he's saying, and we want to talk about it. And in this sense we have expressed the correction of our original proposition, and in this sense we share the discussion of the present day, because we are concerned with the state of human rights, of the suffering of the citizens and the change of the state of political and social conflict. The Pandemia has made the situation "quiet," and it was said that it was too late for us to mention it in the proposition today, but perhaps not so much for the sake of what is going on, I would like to include another point of view to it as well as because the pandemia has led us to close the international boundaries. And what's going on from Nicaragua, Colombia, Honduras, in front of the people who want to take Venezuela out of Venezuela with an asalion request? Mugen's closure has also caused it, and perhaps if we looked out or looked out at Nicaragua, we could see here that we could see how we're playing, too, and what conditions we're setting up. And in this sense, Mr Pricee has explained some indefinable facts, how many people have either come or tried to come here since 2018. But we don't have that part, how many million requests have been accepted since 2018. And, alas, as we have been told in several occurrences of the CAR organization, these ascetic demands are systematically rejected by a large majority. And maybe even today we could use it to ask the Spanish Government for a new attitude in front of that systematic refusal that's being given around the murder request. But let this day be a means of continuing to work; let it be to-day, and another way to examine the effects of the limits, or to examine the bounds. And in that sense, and looking home, I'd like to take one last look. In the Basque Autonomy, recently, the exploitation of work, a trade- net was undone, and all the women in it were women of Nikaragua who worked in the service of their house. It is another consequence of the closing of Mugen, which is another consequence of the state of domestic labour. And today I wanted to use the opportunity to talk about it. But yet we must look there, and there, as has been said today in all our discussions clearly and distinctly, the dialogue is indispensable; it is necessary that the good but the condition of the conversation should be made between the same and the same. This is to be done with all political and social motives, and for this purpose we demand and require the government of Nikagua to have a conversation of the same kind. It is for us to defend the defenders of human rights. And let me remember Juana Ruiz Sánche, a fellow unjustly arrested in Israel, along with many others from Nicaragua. And to-day, especially, I would like to mention the feminist movement of Nicaragua. In a state of sexist violence I wish to remember those who work for the abortion, especially because it is a movement which suffers the suffering of this repression. He's spoken of young men, he's talked about pensioners, but I'm more especially, and I want to be a feminist movement. And I also wish to thank for the nets of the nation, and especially for the defence of the defenders who are organized in Mesopotamia. And another contempt, taking advantage that we are speaking of abortions, which, in this battle, gives us pleasure in Latin America, but also sadness. Compañras, será ley. Ecuador has shown us that it may be possible to make a way, but in the Republic of Dominico they have taken a different direction and nothing to say in Nicaragua. Our correction, therefore, expressed them in express terms, the feminist movement of Nicaragua, expressed expressly the movement of women as indispensable agents. We couldn't agree, and I'd like to explain why we didn't agree. For we have worked for a middle course, and I particularly wish to be grateful for my interview with Mr. Prinet. In one point we agreed: We believe it is necessary to make a good trial of elections. But for us, it was a matter of concern or doubt, and I explained it to you in this way with the May fecay. Let us not confine ourselves to conversation; perhaps if we do not reach May, in June, which is something we must do in July. And in this we express it clearly and firmly. Besides, we indicated that it was an exigency made by certain international agents, and in front of it we were willing to give no limit to the conversation and to make an invitation to get on with it. But, though it may seem small, this disagreement has brought us to an end of our original proposition, which we made; but, as has been requested, we should also demand an opportunity of voting at points, because we agree with the majority that is present. And I'd like to use these last few minutes to talk about those crops we've left off, as we said, that today has brought us to talk about a particular subject. But from now on let us speak of the influence of the frontiers, as we are the original recipient, and let us discuss the influence of the law of strategicljeries; let us discuss the situation here, as long as it is necessary to render it welcome. As I said: Today we will demand a vote of points, because we agree with the majority, and, in this situation, an interview is indispensable. We put our last point on it, and we talked about it and expressed our approval. external imperturbability is not needed. It is something to be enlightened and cultivated in Nicaragua, but the tools must be given, and the tools must be set there for the purpose of doing so. And that's what we're gonna stand up for today with this proposal that we're going to vote on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Passing over to the answering shift, Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u36	Senora presidenta. Two clarifications and one contrast, because, in fact, my role here today has not been the role of a socialist who has to defend his own political position, but I am exercising a loud voice and solidarity with some Nicaraguan colleagues who are among us and who have had to leave there, who have had to go into exile and who have asked us to bring this statement here. And, therefore, I have no interest in competing with anyone or entering into debates, which we already did on October 4, 2018, but simply clarify some things. Firstly, as a clarification, there is no problem with the amendment adding the Group of the European People's Party; quite the contrary, because it is indeed a ratification of what we have already talked about in its day. And with the motion for a point vote there is no problem either. But I do want to make a small contrast, primarily with Mr Martínez, simply so that we know how all this has happened. Mr Martínez said that the voice of the people must be respected; that is, it must be the Nicaraguans who decide, who make the decisions, who say what needs to be done. But the question would be, in this case, whether these gentlemen and women who are up there and what they represent as part of the opposition and exile are the voice of the people or not. If they are not the voice of the people, if the voice of the people are the governmental agencies, indeed, they are the only ones who have to speak. If they are the voice of the people – and, moreover, of the part of the people with whom we want to sympathize, because it is the one that is at a disadvantage, in the worst situation of human rights violations – then, as a result, it is this part of the voice of the people that tells us to present here an initiative of support and solidarity to what they are trying to defend throughout the world, following a report or a motion for a resolution of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, of the Council of the United Nations. And we literally bring that. Moreover, when we make contact with Nicaraguan comrades, they basically tell us about the elections, and then we intend to do something unique and exclusively in relation to the elections. And they say, "No. Although that is now the most important element, from the point of view of being able to have a hope and a way out of this situation that we have here, we want it to be this, the whole of what has been valued in the UN Human Rights Council." And this is what we bring. That is, we bring the voice of the people, we bring the voice of humanitarian organizations, we bring the voice of human rights organizations, and we bring nothing of our own, we bring nothing that has come out of the pen of the Basque Nationalist Party or the Socialist Party, but from that voice of the people. We spoke to Mrs Etxebarrieta. Why? First of all, it must be said that the initiative was hers. She said to us: Is there a chance of reaching agreement? It is true that Mr Aguirre and I had previously said, between the two, that there could be some agreement, because the proposed amendment was quite well ordered, the content was fine, although, according to what we had been asked to do, it could be lacking things, as she also acknowledged. This means that it is not the order of the factors that decides how to work in a Parliament. It's just that you always complain if you're not called. Hey, looks like you're incapable of calling. If you think you have a chance to agree, you can make the same journey, just starting with your initiative. What is going on between Mrs Etxebarrieta's amendment and her amendment? For, if we go to the point – which really is the important point for us at the moment, for a matter of time, for a time, for the moment – Mrs Etxebarrieta's amendment raises, at the last point, that these elections must come out of a dialogue between the opposition and the Government; and in her amendment, what is said, with a somewhat ambiguated wording, is that it is the Government and the governmental bodies that have to resolve it. As my head says no, don't worry; I can read it to you for an afternoon as often as I want until you understand what you've written. I don't have a problem. But this is what comes and this is what makes it absolutely impossible for you to agree, simply; but not because we don't want to be or agree with you, but because you don't want to. If you take Mrs Etxebarrieta's amendment, you will see that there is – well, with its nuances – a clear and quite strong criticism of the violation of human rights and the things that are happening there against freedoms. Of course, if you read the amendment that you have tabled, you cannot say no about the inevitable, but everything that can prevent it. And it almost ends up being his amendment an accession to Daniel Ortega and company. And this is what makes us different.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u37	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u38	So, of course, then, neither is talking for talking. As I have said on more than one occasion, speaking is not an end in itself; it is a means to get somewhere. With your amendment, we cannot get anywhere; understand it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u39	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mr. Aguire, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I've forgotten about it before, and I want to say hello to my friends in Nicaragua. And, yes, it was a pity not to have a wider middle-way, but well, Mr Pricee has just explained his problems and reasons. What is Nicaragua's political situation at the end of April, six months after the elections? President Ortega has achieved something that was unthinkable six months ago: he has achieved a joint pronouncement of the entire opposition demanding an electoral reform for free and fair elections and rejecting the Government's electoral reform project. What did President Ortega's reform seek? Well, things that we consider absolutely unacceptable. The first, the threat of preventing candidatures; then, I have pointed out earlier, the veto on national and international observation; an exclusive bipartisanism that leaves many parties out of these possible elections in November; limitations on the electoral pattern; the replacement of the Supreme Electoral Council by the National Police to authorize electoral mobilizations – that is absolutely unheard of – and also the incorporation into the Electoral Law of recent repressive laws passed in Nicaragua. I agree with Mr Martínez Zatón when he says that it is the people of Nicaragua who must decide their future and who will lead the country. But that requires a minimum of freedom, democracy and the environment without violating human rights. I believe that we must quickly demand the implementation of reforms in line with those proposed by the UN, including those proposed in October by the OAS General Assembly; but we really believe that this May is critical to achieving appropriate electoral conditions. Mr Prieto has said this: this is the main reason for this GNP, that time is pressing and that we are very afraid that this cannot be done. I have said this before in Basque: those of us who in 1979 rejoiced, and much, in the fall of the Somoza clan dictatorship – first the father and then the children; 42 years of dictatorship – today we cannot accept that President Ortega is emulating his former enemy, who fought and who helped overthrow. But what I am going to say now is strictly personal. Because, beyond dictatorial drift, I think it's been a long time since Daniel Ortega had had to be disabled or in prison. And it is not because, thanks to his parliamentary immunity, he managed for years to prevent a trial against him, and then an accomplice judge established the statute of limitations of the offence without even summoning the parties. And if not, ask her stepdaughter Zoilamérica Narváez, daughter of the current vice president of Nicaragua and wife of Daniel Ortega, who accused him of sexual abuse when she was less than ten years old and then accused him of having repeatedly raped her. Only because of that, only because of that, Ortega should never have been president of Nicaragua and should never be again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u41	Thank you, Mr Aguire. Euscala Popularo-Ciudadnos's representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u42	Yeah. I will speak from the seat, with your permission, very briefly. I share – I do not want to prolong – what Mr Prieto and Mr Aguirre have said in this reply. I was reading an article in El País the other day. This article is very interesting when it says that the only way out of this paradox is the convergence of political forces, which is now becoming complicated but which must once again bring together the spirit of the April rebellion, which was heterogeneous, polycentric and multisectoral. Let's hope so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u43	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together, representative of the Podemos-IU team. Martínezon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u44	Yes, thank you. Mr. Prieto, you're an old dog already in politics. And neither do I, as it is said, have too long a melena, but you have wanted to caricaturize me and, since, frankly, you have not succeeded, because you have not even made the effort to listen to the 10 minutes and 50 seconds that I have used in my first speech, which I acknowledge that, although I am not in the same positions that Mr Aguirre maintains, I have realized that you have done so. Because, for example, he is not here today, but with the spokesman in the Human Rights Commission of his party, Miren Gallástegui, we have signed two non-law proposals on Honduras and Colombia, and we have dialogued and we have spoken and we have agreed; you have no intention of doing so, at least on this subject. And we're getting to know each other a little. I will summarise what I said in the first intervention and which, moreover, was summarized in this report by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, which we support and which, as I said in the first intervention, we called for the recommendations contained in that report to be implemented by the Nicaraguan institutions. That's it, first of all. Secondly, when we talk about respecting the voice of the people – as I said at the beginning – we are calling for free and democratic elections to be held. And for that, it takes two things, which are dialogue and agreement. But my solidarity, moreover, is with the whole people. We are not talking here about governments or parties; we are talking about solidarity with all the people of Nicaragua and with all the peoples of the world. We don't make first and second distinctions. Obviously, a much more active solidarity with those who suffer from human rights violations, but we cannot make levels right now or categorize, as you have done. And we were not talking about the government having to guarantee free elections, but we were talking about the electoral authorities, as Mr Aguirre has just said, for example, of the Supreme Electoral Council, which, right now, as I explained in the first intervention, is in the process of renewal and which, as I said, we hope – and we do so and we urge – that it be carried out in a proportional way, through dialogue and through agreement. But you – I say again – did not want to hear anything we have told you. And, to explain our voting position, we will vote on eight points that we do; in three we will abstain, on the grounds that points have been put together on which we do not agree, but on which we do not agree with the terminology used; and we will vote only on the last point, because, as I have already said in other debates, we believe that the OAS is totally discredited in Latin America to mediate and dialogue in internal conflicts in countries and we believe that the United Nations, for example, or other regional bodies can contribute much better and without interference to the development of agreements to, in this case, materialize elections in conditions of freedom and democratic guarantees next semester in Nicaragua. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u45	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. The discussion is over and we'll vote for it first to add to the popular team Euskal Group-Ciudadans. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 41; 75; the supporters, 47; the opponents of the enemy, 27; abstaining, 1; white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u46	So the add correction has been accepted. Next, we shall vote the original text of the proposition, as the Basque Sociists and the Eunciators have set forth by groups. As I said, it's going to vote on points, it's agreed. [[Berber]] One, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 11, that's the first team. Okay. Second team, 10 to 12. [[Berber]] 10 apart age 12 apart. Balle, balle. Zuek ere bai, bale. So we vote for the first team, 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 11. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 41; the votes are 75; the supporters are 74; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 1; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u47	So all these points are accepted. Two, three. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 41; the given votes, 75; the supporters, 68; the contrary, 0; abstaining, 7; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u48	So 2 and 3 have been accepted. points. We'll vote for point 10. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 41; 75; the supporters, 47; the opponents of the enemy, 0; 28; white, 0.1,0,0,8,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u49	So the 10th point is accepted. And finally, we vote for the 12th point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 41; 75; the supporters, 47; the opponents, the contrary, 6; the abstations are 22; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u50	So the 12th point is accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposition of the popular group of Euscals, as made by the parliamentary band of Céranos, was about to increase the tribes in the first six months of the act 2021. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Gordillo, the representative of the Basque Popularo-Ciudadans, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. We are putting before this House a non-legislative proposal concerning one of many proposals that we are going to be putting forward in this House and which we believe is positive for our corporate fabric. Today we have come to this Parliament to discuss this proposal after talking to self-employed people, SMEs, entrepreneurs, etc., who, as everyone knows, are not spending their best time. It has been a few months since we registered this initiative, three in particular, but the claims included therein are understood to remain in force. They are still in force because the economic situation has not improved, and they are still in force, in part, because the social, legal and health situation that our entire society has, at national level and also in Euskadi, so far from improving... Above all there is a feeling and a situation of great uncertainty, great insecurity. And, as we know, in the economic and business world, then, there is nothing worse than uncertainty. The restrictions on mobility obviously also affect the business fabric. And, within what are the contributions to the business fabric, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, small and medium-sized enterprises always, above all, are the most affected: the lack of size, the often lack of internationalisation for different reasons and other issues affect especially the smaller enterprises and entrepreneurs, which can and do have interesting and viable business projects that would contribute to creating added value, wealth, and, above all, would also help to collect taxes in order to be able to finance the public services that we all enjoy, but which, on certain occasions – and this is one of them – are, unfortunately, certainly going wrong. I believe that from the public authorities it is desirable that we send not only messages of support, but also messages to the administrations which have competence in this sector, mainly aimed, to the extent possible, at making life easier for them. Perhaps there could be measures that could be much more visible; perhaps much more eloquent or spectacular to present, as some President of the Government often does. But we believe that it is important, from all institutions, to send a clear message and, above all, to establish concrete proposals. This proposal that we are putting forward has come in a context that is clearly very negative for the business sector. We all know, ladies and gentlemen... I am not going to go too far on this issue, but I would like to review some small data. According to a recent report by the College of Registrars, the number of creditor competitions – the old bankruptcies, which were called in March – increased by 71% throughout Spain. Euskadi has had the second worst behavior within what the country is, within what the state is, only behind Aragon, as you know. And the number of creditor competitions has increased by about 325 % over the same month a year ago. In other words, the increase in Euskadi has been 4.5 times higher than in the rest of Spain. These figures I think speak for themselves. In Euskadi more companies are closed than the average. And, during the pandemic, Euskadi has also lost a significant amount: 1,507 companies, according to the last count. As far as we are concerned over the past year, 27 other industrial enterprises have been shut down; not only in the service sector, but 27 industrial enterprises have been shut down in the Basque Country, which have ceased to exist in what we have been doing since 2021. And in 2020 and 2019 97 and 96 companies were also closed, respectively. In conclusion, since 2014, Euskadi has lost six out of every 100 industrial companies. It is clear that the company, the Basque industry already needed to carry out a number of reforms at that time, many of which depend on reforms that have to be carried out by the central government, the General Courts, the autonomous parliaments..., but there are many, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, there are many reforms that are always being postponed, postponed and, finally, never carried out in this country. We shall see, now that we are going to be conditioned on European funds being made available to carry out certain reforms, what remains of the matter. I hope that we will all be able to take advantage of this opportunity, which is that of the European funds above all, to carry out these necessary reforms for the business fabric to prosper, because the prosperity of the business fabric will mean the prosperity of the whole of society. In particular, the proposal that we are putting before this House has tried to propose it in relatively neutral or aseptic terms so that it will find the maximum possible support. We were asking for a moratorium on... In particular, what was basically called for was a six-month postponement in the payment of the self-employed contribution for social security. We presented it three months ago, but, well, we asked to establish a moratorium, a half-year postponement in the payment of the quota of self-employed, along with other taxes that may be the responsibility, in this case, of the State administration. It is a non-legislative proposal for this Basque Parliament to make a pronouncement addressed to the General Administration of the State. There is another similar proposal in the Congress of Deputies, which will be debated and discussed. But, well, we believe it is interesting that this Basque Parliament should also send a message, a statement, and, above all, that, to the extent possible, it should alleviate the situation of many businesses which can be viable, but which unfortunately are in a really complicated situation from the economic and financial point of view. He said that this initiative is addressed to the General Administration of the State. You can tell me, "Hey, and why don't you, on tax matters, turn it over to the outlaws too?". Well, we are preparing other proposals specifically for the Basque institutions. We thought that we could start in this way, especially with regard to the issue of the quota of self-employed, which is something that all companies have to pay; of course, also Basques. We are not, of course, trying to ensure that companies do not pay taxes, but rather that what we are trying to do is to establish payment systems that allow for some relief in what is a company's treasury and on a day-to-day basis. It is true and it can be said that some administrations have already established some such measures, but it is also true that many moratoriums are already coming to an end, and therefore it seems correct, and above all it seems opportune, to send a message again to the administrations, and specifically, in this case, to the General Administration of the State in this regard, so that it can alleviate – I insist, as far as possible – what is the day-to-day business, on which other people then depend, and that it is above all those who contribute to the wealth and well-being of all. In presenting this initiative, an approach has been sought with some of the groups in this House: with the amending group, the Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita group, and also with the groups that support the Government, although finally, for various reasons, it has not been possible to reach an agreement. I do thank both Mr Soto and Mrs Berrojalbiz for their interest, above all, in trying to reach an agreement. It is a pity that no agreement will be reached; perhaps in another House we will finally reach a positive agreement on this point. It seems to me a pity that we missed an opportunity like this to certainly reach an agreement that can be broad, relatively broad, in this House, and send a clear message, above all, to our corporate fabric: "We are with you, we understand the situation, we understand that it is going wrong, and we understand that it is necessary for the administrations to put themselves and understand the role that the entrepreneur, the small and medium-sized businessman, the self-employed, above all, and the social and economic role that he has." We are living at a critical moment, ladies and gentlemen; it is a critical moment from a political, social and economic point of view. Often, people are not aware at certain times that there are certain specific situations, certain concrete moments in history that are certainly critical in the sense that they are definitive and that they are going to involve very important changes – disruptions, as is often said in English – that are going to affect many of the parameters that we have been handling so far. At the economic level, it is understood that it is important to maintain, as far as possible, and help to maintain, as far as possible, the current business sector, and, above all, also to take advantage of these measures with others that we will present in the future, but to take advantage of these moments, above all, to put into practice what we have by introducing the improvements that we can gradually agree between the institutions. I insist on this point, at the point where I think it is very important that in this economic area we can try to reach the broadest possible agreements. That is why I say that this is one more initiative than we are going to be presenting, and we will support any initiative that comes out of this House and that we believe is positive for the business sector. I was saying that it does not seem, because of the conversations I have had with some speakers, that this proposal does not seem to be going forward from the point of view of arithmetic; I hope, at least, to persuade them internally, in their internal affairs, so that perhaps in the future we can find points of agreement. Although the groups have told me more or less that they will not support this proposal, we have seen positive aspects, for example, in the amendment to the whole of the Elkarrekin Podemos group. It is true that it is an amendment that starts from an entirely different understanding of the issue, because, instead of establishing a first step here, which is what we are proposing, which would be an initial moratorium on the payment of taxes, what the amending group is proposing in this case is an aid scheme, a scheme of public aid with certain percentages of aid depending on the turnover that companies have achieved in previous years. Man, it's totally turning the initiative around. The Bureau of this House has been very generous in accepting Mr Soto's amendment. Well, it's okay. And, well, we, in this sense, well, I say to you that one of your points, although I think it is possible that you may not have managed to convince you to support our initiative, but some of the points that you have proposed seem to us and I personally feel that they are interesting. We shall vote in favour. We will vote in favour because, moreover, it is understood – and I stress again – that it is important for the groups in this House to try by all means to reach agreements, even if they are small transactions, sending a clear message to the business sector. The amendment proposed by Mr Soto is very similar to what the German Government has been putting in place, for example, in its support scheme for entrepreneurs: a package of direct aid, with measures, but a package of direct aid, about 70% of the turnover at the same time as the previous year. This is a very positive thing, because, in fact, in these kinds of issues, there is also a much more transparent tax collection, and there are a number of other issues. It wasn't the one we were presenting, obviously. Let us support, as I say, some points. But, well, in any case, Mr Soto, it's a measure of the German Government, the Ordo-liberal Government par excellence always, the Ordo-liberal State. So, Mr Soto, welcome to Ordoliberalism, which, along with neoliberalism, which has not yet explained to us what it is, I believe is the model in the economic background that we have in Europe. And now, finally, we have made this proposal. Mr Soto has made another totally different, which we understand was far from what was the essence of which he had presented himself. The unity or correlation with our proposal could have been the subject of a totally different GNP, which I believe would have been a very convenient thing. The problem which we have also had in part and which has prevented us from reaching a rapprochement, an understanding with the Government, despite the goodwill that we could have the spokesmen, comes because, as you all know, ladies and gentlemen, one cannot self-amend a GNP; it can only deal with the groups that have already submitted another proposal, another amendment. Perhaps it is an issue that we can correct in the reform of the Rules of Procedure on the day we begin the work of the reform paper. And, finally, in conclusion, despite the fact that the government groups have not put forward a proposal, I think... come on, I encourage them to do so in the future, because I think we can reach agreements. And I would have liked to discuss the very interesting proposals that Mrs Berrojalbiz usually has, and perhaps even to have supported, if not all, part of the proposals that are being made. So, nothing; I ask for the confidence of the House and I expect your arguments, presumably against them, but I look forward to them. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u52	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Soto, representing the Podemos-IU team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u53	Good morning, everyone. Mr Gordillo, this is like the day of the marmot, in relation to the issue we discussed last week with regard to the reduction of VAT in the hairdressing and aesthetics sector. And I mean it looks like the day of the marmot basically because it's a step-by-step initiative, not a similar one, but a step-by-step initiative proposed in the Congress of Deputies. And the truth is that, allow me to comment, from affection, it has been a little frightening to hear you almost in your first sentence threatening us to continue bringing initiatives from this stalemate. I understand that you are doing this for the purpose of pushing and giving strength in this House to what you are proposing in principle in the Congress of Deputies, but I think it would be more reasonable, in any case, as you have said, to put forward initiatives that touch more on reality. I am not saying that, of course, the application of VAT or the payment of social security contributions are not something that is being lived in our territory, but I do believe that, to the extent that we are in this House, it would be appropriate for the initiatives we are proposing to be really materialised by the Basque Government; that is why we are doing so, in order to promote initiatives in this direction. Now, going a little bit to the underlying issue of the initiative, we believe that it is not the solution, it is not the panacea to postpone the payment of taxes. We believe that it is not fair in the wording you make in the original proposal, basically because we believe that the loss of turnover does not necessarily mean, if it is not subject to any other type of conditionality, that it goes to companies or self-employed people who really need it. That is, they may have had a decrease in turnover, but that does not imply that they need or require a deferral in the payment of taxes. That is, we believe that there should be a link between this postponement or this measure that you pose to other conditionalities beyond the loss of turnover. We believe that, moreover, the measure or the approach comes late; you say that you proposed it three months ago and that at the time it had some more meaning, but that, in any case, as now the economy is still resented, because, in any case, the initiative still makes sense. Well, it does, but it is also true that over the course of all these months they have been raised, they have been set up, precisely, postponements in the payment of taxes by different institutions, among them – and I am not going to come out here to defend them – the outlaws. Deferrals have been made in the payment of taxes. So, I don't know very well what the initiative makes sense either. Then, on the other hand, we believe it is not effective. We believe that it is not effective because you have spoken about companies in the interest of creditors or already in an almost liquidation situation, and we believe that, of course, delaying the payment of taxes is not going to help these companies get out of the situation in which they find themselves. We believe that what should be done here is to involve the public sector and, in this case, the governments more closely in relation to direct aid. And that is basically why we have tabled the amendment as a whole. And we have set out in what circumstances we believe it would be necessary to promote direct aid to companies which, in this case, we believe have much more need, which are companies in our productive fabric, small and medium, and not tax deferrals for loss of turnover, which could also be subject to companies that really do not need it, as I told you before, and which should continue to pay taxes. That is why we have tabled the amendment as a whole, on the whole, on the subject of direct aid, as you have said, from countries in our environment. But the Spanish coalition government itself – why doesn't it say so? – has proposed a very large line of direct aid, a very large amount. And we believe that this is the model that must be followed in relation to the maintenance of the productive fabric, because we believe that this is the formula and not – I say – the deferral of taxes, which, in addition, you put on as if this were the panacea and the way for companies to move forward. I hope that, in relation to taxes – and I told you in last week's intervention – we will have the opportunity, at some point, to see you proposing a structural change in the tax model, but that it does not always favour you. In this sense, we believe that the productive fabric to which you refer, small and medium-sized enterprises, bear, to a large extent, the tax burden on corporate tax in our country, and not so the large corporations, which are benefiting from that ecosystem or landing platform that the Basque Government, in this case the deputies, poses for them. And in this sense, I never hear you say anything. And maybe it's time we could talk about it too. I don't hear them talking either... You speak of the German government. I don't hear them talking about participation either. Previously, in a previous GNP, there was talk of public participation in enterprises. I do not hear you talking about the public model of participation and capitalisation of certain Länder companies. But I say to you: I am not going to insist much more on the issue, because I believe that, beyond our amendment to the whole and what it reflects on the need for direct aid to the productive fabric, as regards its own, that is to say, the original proposal, we do not see it as meaning; first, because this is not the place where it should be dealt with; and, secondly, because we believe that the content of the proposal – although we do not oppose the postponement of taxes – is something that is already being done by different institutions. But we believe that it is not the solution to the problems, nor, of course, the solution for those companies that are really going through the worst, such as those that are in the process of competition. And, in this sense, we believe that the paths should be different. In any case, I thank you, as you said in your final part of the speech, for the effort to reach agreements. I share with you that, in the face of a situation such as ours in economic, economic development and taxation, we should try to reach agreements or, at least, make an effort to reach agreements. I believe that, in that sense, you do – and I am telling you this too – beyond the model that you pose and ours the truth is that you are far from being similar. But I think there may be elements in which we can find ourselves. And, in this sense, I do believe it is a good thing that we do and insist on that path, and we will continue to try to do so. And let us hope that in the future we will reach agreements, not only with you, but also with the parliamentary groups that support the Government and with the rest of the opposition groups. But I say to you: let us hope that these agreements will make more sense in terms of measures that can really be implemented and implemented in Euskadi. And, in this sense, we believe that this measure is not so, that it corresponds more to an institutional agenda that you may have preferred in your political organization, and that you present this initiative in all autonomous parliaments, in the Congress of Deputies and in all places where you can do so. And I think that should not be the case, and more in view of the self-government capacity of Euskadi in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u54	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Passing the teams that don't run, Mistto. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Vox has advocated, since the first days of the state of alarm, the confinement of people and the closure of business, measures to alleviate the irreversible damage that was occurring. Fourteen months defending direct aid, relaxation of the tax burden, less restrictive measures that provided some oxygen to entrepreneurs and self-employed people who could hardly breathe. Deaf ears, no commitment, zero in solutions, closing after closing and down blinds; that's what we find. During all this time of agony for thousands of entrepreneurs, the parties supporting the Basque Government, PNV and PSE, do not seem to have taken this matter very seriously: they have denied the contributions of any of the parliamentary groups represented here and have imposed a model of management of the pandemic and its consequences which has condemned the closure of thousands of businesses, which have not been given a single opportunity. I remember when it was agreed not to collect the quota of self-employed persons just on the same day that that quota was charged. On the other hand, discussing this issue in the middle of April, already very advanced in 2021, has its terrible point, and it has it because there are thousands of entrepreneurs who today have lost everything, those who no longer pay taxes because they have no business to manage, for which this debate is a joke, moreover, of very bad taste. Perhaps we approve of urging the central government to do something. Perhaps it would be more effective for Mr Urkullu to exchange chromes with his partner in Madrid to achieve what is proposed here today; I do not know, those "here I give you so that you give me in return", although right now the PNV has little to offer to a Mr Sánchez to whom the accounts do not come out in any way. Hence, on May 9th, I was free for everyone to do what they want and what they think is convenient, when it has been so far "don't move that you spoil my official data." On the other hand, with regard to the amendment by the Elkarrekin Podemos Group, I have to say that your amendment makes sense. Moreover, it should almost be an approach compatible with what the PP-Citizens coalition proposes. But – and he is very important – where do you intend to get the money from? Because, to do what they propose, it takes a lot of money, and neither this executive nor his in Madrid have the necessary funds. I remind you that Spain is a world leader in public debt; also in growth of that public debt. But, of course, putting your feet on the ground could water this new attempt to profile, even if it is to show your support to those entrepreneurs who have consistently denied without modesty: the bad people in the neighborhood, unscrupulous people who take advantage of their workers, who defraud the Treasury..., and that is only part of the rosary of praise that you and your leader have given them. In short, only good intentions and empty words after many months of agony, a constant and unstoppable dripping of business closures, knowing that the situation was dramatic, without including it among the Government's priorities. One more full, one more agenda item to mark profile, and little more. And entrepreneurs and self-employed people need actions, action, constant help and cash and sounding help. Good words are not going to keep the businesses that are in danger today open, nor, of course, will they help to reopen those thousands that have already closed for bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u56	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Mr Gordillo, your group does not like us to list the battery of measures that have been put in place by both the central government and the Basque government to sustain employment and the economy in this pandemic crisis, when they present such initiatives. But it is inevitable and also necessary, since the Government's response to protect the collective of the self-employed, since the outbreak of the pandemic, has been most extensive and has been consensual at all times with the most representative organizations of this collective. The protection that the self-employed have had in this crisis of COVID has made it possible to maintain employment, as indicated by the affiliation data to the self-employed regime. In March 2019, it stood at 3.254,078, and in March 2021 it stood at 3.274,823; that is, 20,745 more affiliates. And it has been the articulation of the cessation benefit as a monthly benefit extended over time and with an exemption from social security contributions one of the measures that have helped most and that have been extended until 31 May, thanks to a new agreement with the most representative associations. Benefits amounting to EUR 4,932 million have already been recognised, of which EUR 223 million has been paid to Euskadi. In addition, the special cessation benefit, the low-income support, the cessation benefit compatible with self-employment and the flexibility of access to the special suspension benefit for the hospitality sector have been extended. On the other hand, we have the moratoriums and postponements of social contributions and the payment of debts to Social Security, as set out in the last Royal Decree Law 11/2020 of 31 March, and subsequent amendments. Social Security will continue to allow quota deferrals for self-employed workers affected by the coronavirus. These professionals will have to apply for the postponement during the first 10 days of each month, and may apply for the postponement of January, February and March of this year. In addition, the increase in the autonomous quota foreseen for 2021 has been suspended. All these measures aim to make the necessary adjustments to maintain the support measures established by Royal Decree Law 30/2020 of 29 September, which are still considered essential for the recovery of the productive tissue. As regards taxation, one of the last measures introduced by the Government in the third additional provision of Royal Decree Law 5/2021 provides for deductions in both VAT and IRPF, as well as certain deferrals. This includes the possibility of postponing first-quarter statements. In that connection, self-employed persons who wished to postpone them could do so within six months without having to pay interest for delay. This measure focuses especially on SMEs and self-employed people with debts of up to 3,000 euros. Another very important fiscal measure is the adjustment of the payment of taxes to the real income of self-employed persons. For their part, the outlaws of Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa have extended to 2021 the tax measures to support taxpayers most affected by the consequences of the pandemic, among which today I highlight those that are most in line with the debate. These are: the self-employed will be exempt from paying the fractional payment of the IRPF for the fourth quarter of 2020, which was normally paid in January. Also for the financial year 2021, the income corresponding to special aid granted by the public administrations to self-employed persons as a result of the impairment in their economy and activity as a result of COVID is declared exempt from the payment of the IRPF, and an exceptional deferral scheme is established, without guarantees or interest, for the payment of tax debts. The payment of the debt shall be suspended for three months and shall be entered by way of its fractionation into six monthly instalments of the same amount. The last step, moreover, has been the introduction of new tax incentives for tenants who lower rent on business that have been particularly affected by the COVID crisis. Finally, I would also like to remind you that, together with this support from the moratoriums on the payment of taxes and social security contributions and other moratoriums on the repayment of loans or the payment of rents in the case of self-employed persons or vulnerable persons, the new line of direct aid to self-employed persons and enterprises, with EUR 7 billion, has recently been approved, with the aim of providing direct aid to the autonomous communities and enterprises in the sectors most affected by the pandemic, for the payment of debts incurred by enterprises since March 2020. For this reason, the Basque Socialists do not support the GNP that their group has tabled, as it proposes a request for measures of moratoriums and postponements that are already being contemplated; and, in any case, we consider it more appropriate to request that they continue to be provided as long as the financial situation of the business fabric is affected by this crisis generated by COVID. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Today we have a proposal on the table, and in this case he requests the taxation of the State and demands Social Security. Look, we can agree that a lot of small, autonomous companies are having a bad time and need help. And among these helps, perhaps, it is true that a delay may be made in the payment of the autonomists' rate, at the moment, may be a help, a thesis. And that's already on the table 2020. our forum-notes have put such measures on the table. They've rerouted the delays, and they've even reorganized the sliced payments. And the state treasury has put that on the table, as Mrs. Pérez has now explained. Nik, that's a simple beat. Bizkaiak: "Extraordinary deferral of tax payments". Because sometimes it seems like we don't read outland haciendas. "Exceptional deferral of tax debts of self-employed workers, micro-enterprises and small businesses is approved." And the state – Mrs Pérez has commented – in Royal Decree 7/2020, grants for six months the postponement of the payment of taxes to SMEs and self-employed people, with the previously explained lack of interest, which I believe is not worth explaining again. But what have we here today on the table? Well, a proposition with the state view. Once again, Mr Gordillo brings us a proposal with a unique and exclusively state vision. You said in your first speech that something similar had been presented in the Congress of Deputies. No, it seems not; exactly the same, with the only difference that, obviously, it did not put "Vasco Parliament". He did not make that trip from Parliament to Congress; it was Congress that urged the Spanish Government. But exactly the same thing. And on January 25, the Citizens' Group presented it at the Congress of Deputies. That, however, has not yet been discussed by that non-legislative proposal. Here you have decided to bring it to debate. Moreover, it is the same proposal that led the group of Citizens in a debate in the Community of La Rioja, that that did lead to debate and they lost it. Moreover, it is very curious that – because in the Community of La Rioja it is not a People's Party-Citizens group, but a People's Party on the one hand and a Citizens' Party on the other – in that very debate, it is also curious to see what the position of the People's Party is, which the representative of the People's Party tells her there to her fellow party that to postpone six months the payment of quotas and taxes is bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. Of course, this happens when we have a group here, People's Party-Citizens and, in the state, in Congress, it works on its own. Look, I have to tell you one thing, Mr. Gordillo: you, again... And I insist: it is a proposal with a State vision, unique and exclusively of the State. It has made no mention or taken into account the economic and legal situation of the Basque Autonomous Community. You, once again, have skipped the Economic Concert, literally, because it seems that the Economic Concert to your group does not interest you, and it tells us about the taxes whose competence the State has, when we are talking about SMEs, micro-SMEs and autonomous people who pay taxes each in their foral estate. So, well, I was actually used to another vision of the People's Party in this House. If in the end we're going to end up missing someone! I was used to another vision. At least, they accommodated Congress's proposals to the situation of the Basque Autonomous Community in this area. And, if there's the Economic Concert in between, let's at least take it into account. But, in his proposal, once again, he speaks only of the State. Moreover, it is that, frankly, your proposal I read and said, "I must be in an autonomous community of common system and I have not heard, and I have not heard." Because, of course, then it was when I started looking and I saw that, in fact, word for word they had presented it in other autonomous communities, these yes, of common system. Then... I understand that you want to bring you... I understand, it is lawful for you to want to bring your debates in the Congress of Deputies to the Basque House. But this is the Basque House. And there will be debates that make sense to be held at both sites, because there are many debates that make sense to be held at both sites and are enriching. But please, let's adapt to the reality of every territory. And this proposal is not appropriate to the reality of the Basque Autonomous Community in tax matters. And we can understand – I said this in Basque – we can understand that the delay in the payment of social security, the payment of self-employed, can be a relief at that time to self-employed or self-employed in a matter of treasury, of course, and delay the payment of taxes, of course. We have put it as EH Bildu on the table in many institutions, and we have carried it forward in those municipalities where we have been able to do it. But please, if we are in the Basque Autonomous Community, at least let us take into account the legislative framework.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Eubertarians. Mrs. Bergeralbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. And good morning to all. The initiative we are discussing today by the Basque People-Citizens Group aims to alleviate the financial situation of Basque companies by requesting measures from the Government of Spain. They urge the Government of Spain to postpone taxation, among other measures, in order to give financial lung to Basque companies. And I say "Basque companies" because this is expressly mentioned in the justification of their initiative. A somewhat paradoxical wording – already told by the spokesman of the EH Bildu group –. You are well aware that the tax change or deferral in the state will not alleviate the financial situation of Basque companies. Well, there's some exception by volume of transactions in the Economic Concert that could actually affect; some exception. Then, if you want, we discuss that point in the replica. So what is the aim of dealing with this request for tax deferral in this Parliament when, first, we have our own competence in tax matters? You might understand that, like Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita does so with his amendment, the Basque Government is urged to establish certain measures. However, you bring here a very interesting debate as to the measures you propose – I will not say no – but misdirected as to whether the beneficiaries will not be directly or primarily either Basque citizens or their businesses. I believe that we should not underestimate the capacities of our Basque institutions in fiscal matters by holding a debate outside the State, which makes me think that, behind all this, what underlies is the same centralizing idea as ever. I sincerely believe that what we should be discussing, Mr Gordillo, is the position of each of the groups on competence and Basque self-government. In fact, we are awaiting a debate in this House on the tax recentralisation presented by your group, in which I assume that, in line with your coalition programme, you will stand in favour of our self-government. But, as the saying goes, from saying to fact there is a great stretch. Secondly, respect for competences. And I'll explain myself. It is not understood that the Spanish Government is told from Parliament what to do with its debts, because neither the foreign parliaments nor the Basque Government will understand that the Spanish Government will tell them what to do with its debts and taxes. I think we should stop invading competences and let everyone manage what is theirs, without prejudice to the fact that, from every Basque parliamentary group, we are pushing forward and proposing to the Basque Government the measures we consider, as in this debate – as I have said before – the Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita group has done from its point of view. Although it is an amendment that has nothing to do with the original initiative, and therefore we have not amended and therefore have no chance of agreeing anything for the direction given in the amendment by the Elkarrekin Podemos Group. It is also a pity that the compromise option offered by the Group of the European People's Party to the Elkarrekin Group has not been met, as we were prepared to vote in favour of that compromise proposal. I am sure we will have more opportunities to talk about the ecosystem model, the attraction and roots of strategic enterprises, the different formulas on European funds or tax reviews that have been mentioned here today. Thirdly, both the Government of Spain and the outside bodies already have measures in place in the area of tax deferrals and social security contributions. It has already been anticipated by all the previous speakers, but simply by strengthening and justifying the position of the groups that we support in the face of this initiative. On the outside and in its area of competence, which is the prosecutor, we find measures such as the flexibility of the requirements for the application of certain incentives. Because we do not alleviate the financial and fiscal situation of Basque companies only by tax deferrals, but also by easing certain requirements in tax incentives linked to employment, reinvestment, the transfer of R & D deductions or when applying incentives linked to financial leases; also by eliminating fractional payments from the IRPF of self-employed, which has not been mentioned either. It also provides for the exemption of aid related to COVID, the reduction of the contributions to be paid for the resumption of economic activities, the postponement of payment of tax contributions due to 30 April and the extension of the cases of postponement, which will not require guarantees. And, with regard to state measures, which I will not be the one to defend or criticise the measures established, it is striking to me that, with the following state measures, which Mrs Pérez has also commented on, bring you here to this debate so limited to fiscal and social security matters: the Royal Decree Law, the last, of 12 March, the 5/2021, which contains an extension of the six-month payment deferrals for debts generated until 30 April, and the State General Budgets Act of 2021, which you said no, in whose final disposition quadragissimo tercera provided for the moratorium on the payment of social security contributions. Therefore, there are measures, decrees of moratoriums and postponements to which our group in Madrid has always voted in favour. But, Mr Gordillo, we have not yet been able to reflect our vote in Madrid on this initiative, and indeed on this initiative, because the initiative discussed today is, once again, a replica of the one already presented in Congress by you, but, on this occasion, with one difference, and that is that the two initiatives that you have presented in Congress have not yet been debated and voted on. At least, they could have waited for the result of the vote in the institution where the debate corresponds and where all the parliamentary groups in this House are represented, and, depending on the result, adapt their initiative to the extraneous particularity. But I see that they do not act in this way, so I ask you again what is your particular interest in discussing a debate here today that is about to take place where it belongs. Let us be more effective, responsible and non-repetitive. And, as Mr. Soto told you, do not keep your word to bring in more replicated initiatives from Congress, please. We are all aware of what our business fabric is suffering, of the crisis it is going through, of the need to implement measures and programmes of help and impulse, as the Basque institutions are doing. I have no doubt, and I believe that all the parliamentary groups will share my conclusion. The Basque Government, the outlaws and this parliamentary group, the Basque nationalists, have accompanied our business fabric in the past, we are now accompanying you in this phase of resistance, and we will also be at your side in the long-awaited phase of recovery. This is our way of doing and working. I'm just going on for the second round.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Passing the answer shift, representative of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadans. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u63	Thank you very much, Madam President. Many thanks to the spokespersons for their eloquent sincerity. I will go over the various questions that have been addressed to me, with the internal penalty that you have taken a long time to try to explore a possible hidden intention on my part, or to analyze – what I am – or repeat the actions that different governments and administrations may be carrying out – to some, even, "attack to the Concert" I thought I heard..., I don't know where, but listen, the same..., and little in presenting some alternative proposal, which I would have really loved to discuss. Too bad, but, well, another day will be. Look, my real intention with this initiative was simply to find a point on which I believe, because of the different manifestations that these groups have had in other places, in other parliaments, that there could be a minimum meeting point. I think it is very good that we are reaching important and cross-cutting economic agreements; I think it is absolutely essential. And this was a good opportunity to move on that path. And I think, unfortunately, then, we have missed it. I hope that the other groups, which have criticised this proposal for various reasons, have tabled alternative amendments, which would have enabled us to reach an agreement, which was my intention. I don't think it's an initiative that hurts; quite the opposite. This initiative is not going to solve all the problems companies have in difficulty, but, well, it's a step forward, it's a step further, it's an addition which, in any case, is not incompatible with other measures. Each group has made a great effort to present its own vision, which is very good; I can also share some elements, but unfortunately I think that we have lost an opportunity today in this Parliament to reach a certain consensus, to reach a certain agreement, or at least to start a path which, at least in economic matters, as in health, I believe is absolutely essential – I insist – in this consensus, at least in economic terms. Man, Mr. Soto, I'm not gonna say it hurt, but I'm finally trying to take the personal issue off. But, man, you have said, you have very much criticized me for presenting equal or similar initiatives in different parliaments, that this is not done. Ostras, if for something is characterized his party is because, come on, presents the same initiative even in the last city council where they have a councilman. This sentence will be recorded here in the session log. Obviously, there may be places where certain proposals can be better discussed, but, man, I do not think this Basque Parliament is an unqualified place to comment on these issues. And besides, Mrs Berrojalbiz's comment has surprised me a lot, because it says: "No, no. You wait to see what Congress says, and then the Basque Parliament will speak." In other words, the Basque Parliament is subject to the Congress of Deputies. Well, listen, then, I don't know; I will have misunderstood. Were there any points that could be improved in the proposal? Well, yes. Yes, there can be points that can be improved, obviously. But I insist: the initiative that I put forward was to reach agreements, to reach consensus, and perhaps, among all, to be able to move forward together on this issue. As I said to Mr Soto before, it seems to me that, well, that I am voting against the initiative... Finally, because your groups will already explain it, specifically in the Congress of Deputies; you will also explain it to us later. But, finally, I do believe that any positive initiative should be taken seriously, apart from parliamentary criticism of certain initiatives; in this case you criticise mine. But, well, I think yours has positive aspects, and that's why we're going to vote for it, because I think it's the right way. As far as Mrs Pérez Ezquerra is concerned, she has, of course, been reviewing all the measures taken by the Government, and so on. Well, well; it's good that you review the plans of the government and the programs and so on. But I insist: if we are unable to reach an agreement on something as simple as what was being proposed here today, I believe that reaching major economic agreements is going to be very complicated, it is going to be tremendously complicated. I was delighted by Mrs Pinedo's pipe, who told me that I have a great view of the state. I don't know if you're calling me a stateman; man, I'm so not here, but I think I was going a little bit on the other side, right? I think he's trying to criticize this issue of competition and so on. Not at all, listen, not at all and for nothing. And as soon as we have a chance, then, we will discuss the tax issues that are appropriate. And then, nothing, finally, just, I want to thank the debate anyway. I sincerely believe that we have missed here today an opportunity with a simple theme, which could have served as a sample button; it could have served, at least, as a first step towards reaching larger agreements. If we have not managed to agree on something like this, then we are going to be complicated in other agreements that we all need. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u64	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together Podemos-IU, Soso. That's right. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u65	See, the truth is, it's amazing... It is true that Mrs Martínez is not here, but that a political formation which has voted against the ERTE, the extension of the ERTE, the cessation of activity of self-employed persons, the rise in the interprofessional minimum wage, the direct aid plan proposed by the Government of Spain..., that this political formation comes here to say that we do not defend the productive fabric or the self-employed or those who are worse off in the pandemic and they are absolutely hypocritical and cynical. And I wanted to say it. It was said that where the money is taken for all this. It is the time to get it out, because, if not, we are back to the dynamics of 2008 when we are facing an economic crisis like the one we are experiencing now. These are palliative measures that have a preventive meaning. If we do not act now, do not get in debt and do not make use of public spending, we will lose a decade, as we have lost it by managing the 2008 crisis. Therefore, yes, now is the time to implement these measures of public spending and impulse of the productive fabric. Mr Gordillo, I do not think anyone doubts your respect for the competition framework. I do not doubt it, but I believe that by bringing these initiatives here, in the end, it leads to a contradiction. And it's that you sure have a very deep respect for the competition framework, but bringing an initiative of these characteristics here absolutely contradicts it, absolutely contradicts it. This should be something dealt with and addressed in the Congress of Deputies. And, in your case, if you want to rethink the competition framework in this regard, do so, but let's talk about it; let's not talk about initiatives that have to be – I say – processed in Congress. Therefore, here we are going to a sterile debate in which nothing that came forward could be materialised. In any case, I thank you for voting in favour of our initiatives. Now it is only necessary that, if a formation such as yours is in agreement with direct aid from this side, political formations such as the PNV and the Socialist Party that accompany you are also in agreement at some point. In any case, I say: I thank you for your support for our amendment, and the truth is that, seeing it this way, it would have made a lot more sense than our amendment as a whole would have actually been the GNP that is being debated today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u66	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Pérez must not speak. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mr Gordillo, I don't doubt that you want to look for cross-cutting agreements, because I don't know you enough, either, and I'm sure you're looking for them. But, on economic issues, there are many differences so that we can reach agreements on very important things. This Parliament has been debated many times, and it is complicated on some issues, but we can certainly find some. And I'd love for you to sign something with Euskal Herria Bildu someday. That we would have tabled an amendment. Do you know what's going on? That there are proposals that, when you read them, say: "Am I really going to table an amendment?". Well, that's the case, Mr. Gordillo. When I read your proposal – and I told you in my first speech – I said, "Really?" because it sounded to me, and I looked for it and found it: January 25 in the Congress of Deputies. Same. Which may be, but which have not led to debate. And, given the dates on which we are, I can smell that they are not going to bring it to debate, because today is April 29th. Between standing still and standing still, surely in the Congress of Deputies they will not bring her to debate. But that is not the issue; if you can debate in Congress, you can debate here. Don't tell me that you defend the competition framework and respect it and so on. If I can believe your words, it is that this text, this text, is not in accordance with the competitive situation of this territory. Mrs Berrojalbiz has told me about postponements: there are some very specific cases, you have told me. And they're not the SMEs in my neighborhood or the self-governing in my neighborhood, Mr. Gordillo. These are not the exceptions that may have implications for state law and not for foreign law. And you know it perfectly well. So you're cheating on me with the ball, no, Mr. Gordillo. So, please, if we want to talk about taxes, we're talking about taxes, no problem. If I'm the first one I want to talk about taxes, and I've talked about taxes many times. There's no problem. But let's talk within the framework in which we have to talk, and not get me to take a ball to Congress of Deputies on a topic where our outlandish estates are competent and they are the ones that have made the decisions, some that I like and others that I sure don't like. Because I tell you that there are many that I did not like, neither I nor my group, and we have said that at the General Councils. But, Mr. Gordillo, please. And please do not carry out your threat of bringing all the proposals of the Congress of Deputies, because it will unfortunately be found in this situation; and I do not think it is good for you or for this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Eubertarians. Mrs. Bergeralbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. I start where I finished my first surgery. The Basque Nationalist Party will always be working for Euskadi and Basque citizenship, always respecting the competition, even though we fight for greater economic-financial self-government. We in Euskadi must make our way and forge our future, establish our public policies, our aid programmes to deal with the current health crisis, including tax aid, strengthening our self-government and having our space in Europe. And that's what we're doing from the Basque Nationalist Party. As the European Commissioner for Economic Affairs said a few days ago, as a result of an amendment to the VAT directive to include certain exemptions to certain goods, not just health care, he said that the COVID pandemic has taught us that these kinds of crises are multifaceted and have a wide impact on our societies. And, therefore, in the face of this heterogeneous crisis that affects and will, unfortunately, continue to affect our society, the Basque Executive, with the aim of giving oxygen to the business fabric, puts and will put all their efforts to help them in this difficult situation. An example of this is the effort made with the COVID programme, with aid in 2020 amounting to EUR 850 million and EUR 542 million this 2021; a total of EUR 1.4 billion for, among others, the financing lines via Elkargi, aid to various sectors, etc. Helps for this phase of resistance, but also plans and programs for the future, for the transformation of Euskadi, with Berpiztu and Euskadi Next as vault keys. And, as a recent example, the 2024 Entrepreneurship Plan, which envisages the challenge of consolidating an attractive ecosystem to provide value and quality of employment, with a projected investment of €390 million. But, also, when we encounter debates like the current one, even if the competition in Social Security is not ours or the management of state taxes is not ours, obviously, we will also strive for the Spanish Government to implement measures for the benefit of the citizenry and our productive fabric, but debating and proposing where they belong, as our group in Madrid does, without invading competences. And this is the way to work, which ought to be done amongst all; and when the helps and measures of different degrees and parts are to be put together, by applying an organization of co-combination, co-ordination, and reproachfulness, a pattern which supposes the common and nearest foundation to be put into reality, respecting the principle of subsidy, self-glance. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. After discussion, we'll put the original text of the proposition as the Basque Groups of Populara Ciudadans. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 40; the votes given, 74; the supporters 6; the opponents, 68; abstations, 0; white; 0; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u71	So it's not accepted. After that, together with the PodemosIU team...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u72	For points, Podemos's. I think they said yes in the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u73	Okay. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u74	You can group the first three points and then the fourth separately.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u75	We'll vote one, two, three points. We can vote one, two, three points. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 40; votes given, 74; in favour 12; contrary, 41; Abstations, 21. white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u76	So it's not accepted. And finally, the final point, fourth point, we vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 40; votes given, 74; in favour 6; in the contrary, 47; abstaining, 21; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u77	So the fourth point is not accepted. Five point in theme list: "Motion, Ichaso Housebarria, introduced by the parliamentary members of the D.H.R.R.D.s in Abar Errisha to help you in your plans for the homes and the little cellars. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Madam, it's yours to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u78	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. It's been a few months since we introduced this motion, after my first session at December 15th in full control. I remember the interpenetration, and the arguments expressed in it, and the Tapia Group's. But I think it might be all right to make a little stew for us to understand the cause of the motion. Then we argued about the effect of COVID-19. His influence was serious in the region of the vineyard of Errisha, and of wine. It is still a serious matter, for the situation is so. Great downfalls of sales have occurred due to the close and reduction of the Horca channel. According to an HAZI report, June 2020, losses were higher than 30%. In some barns, there are 40% losses. The situation has not improved, and we do not know how long it will last. There's a similar effect in other areas and productions, in the areas of cider, in the vaccinations and beer sectors. I do not wish to mention them, for their losses in general are self-evident.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u79	Sorry, the translation doesn't work.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u80	In certain areas of the Erriax of Araba, apart from the COVID, they had to endure storms, mildoo disease, etc. during the 2020s. For some time past, we've seen them compete with the frosts in the news, and this year, as it were, with all the resources they've got in front of the ice threat, night and day. But though all these things should be considered, I tried to insist on other facts in interpelation. What for? To show the brain of the problem. As I said in the discussion of the hour, we know that they're taking measures, they're giving us scholarships. In the last five years, 58 million Euros have been divided between the Errix stores in the Arbaan. Some scholarship lines were used for that. Most of the people I mentioned: Competition wine, New competition, competition Promoción, OCM Vino Inversio, OCM Promoción... Among them Mrs. Tapia spoke of some others, of which she strengthened and fatigued. But let's not forget those aren't scholarships, it's the funding line. The sector's in debt. And credits must be paid, even if the conditions be better or longer. They're not the right help. Sooner or later, the money must necessarily be returned. They can't be described as scholarships. But even with regard to his colleagues, we ought to see that they are just as they divide themselves. According to my information, more than half of $58 million has gone to business. One of them, a company that's more of a dealer's than a coal store, has got 10,70,000 dollars. This company is between 10 companies that pay most in Spain. Is it allowed that these multinational corporations should be satisfied with the amount of money like that, and the small ones who are on the edge of the abyss? Then we said it, and we would like to repeat it to-day: these facts are absolutely scandalous. It's unacceptable that one company gets the most 5 of all the scholarships. Among five great companies (Pernod Ricard Winemers Spain, CVNE, Bodegas Faustino, Bodegas de los Herderos del Marqués de Riscal and Araex), they have received 62, almost 36 million euros. And sometimes, without attending to the law of the nourishment chain, they pay the grapes below their cost. They don't keep the contracts properly. It's a shame. Mrs. Tapia told us she went to 42% ETEs, and that's how it is. But Araex is part of that company we talked about on the front team. It's an average company. And that's the only one who's been charging around six million Euros these years. There's really only 7% of these little cellars, or the cellars, which are classified inside the microETE group, that's only 7%. Those are the real ones with less than ten employees. 'It's all about eighty-ones in all.' I repeat: Five companies from there, 62%, and 80 families' houses and small cellars, 7%. This shows that the criteria which have hitherto been used for distribution of scholarships are not just, nor adequate. It's essential to share the benefits in a different way. Besides, that's what we're asking from Europe. The friends derived from Europe have precise ends; to encourage the farm-gathering, and to improve the value of agriculture, and of prime estate, as well as others. Those targets are not working. Small houses and family houses are indispensable to the future of the countries, and are disappearing. Last one, an Elegane cellar. The gardener has retired, and the two sons will not continue their course. He closed the camp and sold it to Marqués de Riscal. Such situations are becoming more and more common in the first sector. As in this case, for the past 25 years, we've lost more than 400 cellars in Errioxa of the Aradaba. 181. 2018. The cellars were closed in 2019. They have been indispensable to the cohesion and social development of the region, and are still small and familiar cellars. And again shall I say: they are disappearing. Is that what we want? I'd say not. We are losing land; there is more and more land at the service of a few large companies. What's happening is pure speculation. Who can afford to buy a hectare of vineyards without debt for several years? I would like to recall some data that I also mentioned in my December inquiry. Twelve of the 15 municipalities in the region are losing population: in Samaniego, 13.48 %; in Villabuena/Eskuernaga, 9.41 %; in Yecora, 7.48%. The schools of the villages are being closed; the population is increasingly ageing; there is no relief, despite the glamour of the large wineries, of the luxury hotels. Why? What's wrong? In our view, it is the lack of hope. People in the region don't see a future, they don't see a way to make a living there. As we have said, the objectives of European aid are not being met, agricultural income is not improving, and the value of grapes, although this year there is a slight improvement, has fallen in recent years. The definitive data on the weighted average sales prices of bulk wine for the 2019 harvest in the State reflect a decrease from the average of the last five years: 20,4 % in red, 16 % in pink and 19,7 % in white. It is clear that the success of the small cellars and of the family buildings may be essential to the development of the Errixa of Aruba. These camps are the most significant springs of the ancient life and of the future. These camps have been given a quality in front of quantity. They have a pattern of their own, and they are talking about the course of protecting its peculiarities. The consumers and markets must be clear. Let us also make a wager of them, that we may protect them as they ought. For this purpose we thought it necessary to obtain an extensive political agreement, and we endeavoured to do so. I think it's clear that we're willing to negotiate and make a deal. That is why we have tried to reach the greatest possible agreement, and I would like to thank all the groups that have tried, to the extent of their possibilities and convictions, to facilitate this work. Eskerrik asko. Finally, we have entered into a compromise with the groups that support the government and with Podemos-IU, with the commitment that things should turn around, that the necessary resources – own or not – should be allocated, and that no opportunity should be missed to help these wineries. We can't leave them at the stake. In our fundamental motion, we wanted to emphasize the importance of the ETE and Micro companies of Erriša in Arbaa for the development of the country and of its inhabitants. And I think we all agree on that. On the other hand, we were demanding specific contributions to these ETEs and Micro companies. They must compete with the big ones at the market. Let us draw them out of this combat, and distribute money between their affairs and the cellars which they require. They are peculiar, they are distinct, and their duration is inevitable. Let's separate them. That's our proposition. a line of help which will reward the character of these cellars and vineyards, quality, and permanent means, had been made for them; for family houses, for little cellars, and for the farmers of the vineyard, a worthy future. We find other proposals drawn from the correction of the groups which support the government, and received them in the middle; A proposal to encourage the Errixian wine of the Araba, to encourage the internationalization process by looking for new markets, an easy way to digitalize, e-commerce It would be a good measure to the improvement of these companies, but they won't do it if they don't encourage small ones, as we have done now. So let's do things calmly, as we have to do, careful. Maybe it's not the easiest way. Maybe we need to study the criteria carefully, copy and pega. We have left our middle-road, the third point of the popular group-Ciudadus, who received the share of Errioxa, the Rulesist Council of Fascination. It seems to us that the pattern which it inspires stifles the pattern of the cellars of the Errisha of Arada, the smallest cellar. The regulator Council is subject to vast cellars and markets, and because of the quantity of wine which produce them, and which they market, the quantity is placed above the quality of quantity. The small cannot compete with them, nor are they protected from the Council. That's why we've asked for subsidies and measures to protect the most vulnerable and essential agents in the region. We believe that today's agreement has taken a significant step forward in that direction. They need their own example, and we're on their side. On the way, we will help as much as we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Soto, representing the Podemos-IU team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u82	Good again. We are faced with an agreement that the truth is that for our parliamentary group it is very important. I will mention some doubts that I hope some of the groups supporting the Basque Government can clarify, but in any case, it seems to us to be an important agreement. And, in this regard, I am especially grateful to the proposing group, which in this case was EH Bildu, for the ability to draw up agreements in this regard in relation to the final text. I would like to touch on an issue that has already been mentioned and that for us and ourselves it is very important, and it has to do with the differentiation that exists in the sector with regard to family wineries or small and medium-sized wineries and with regard to the big brands, the big wineries. In this sense, at the first point of the motion, it is said that what they represent, as a social and fundamental economic agent for rural development, and also as an economic tractor, is what the wineries represent and, in this case, in particular, I understand that the family wineries. This, in contrast – I believe – to what the large wineries represent in terms of their social role, of territorial cohesion and also of connection with the identity anchored in the territory. I believe that large wineries, because of the enormous production capacity of brands and sub-brands, have greater capacity to adapt in their offers to different requirements or labels, while small and medium-sized wineries do not have that opportunity. But it is that, in turn, the large wineries do not exercise that social function of which he spoke, while the small and medium wineries do. And, in this regard, I believe that, with regard to the action of the Basque Government and the Members of Parliament, the essential thing in this case would be to meet the urgent needs of small and medium-sized women, because the large women themselves, because of their value chain and their capacity for distribution, are emerging from the difficult situation that we are experiencing in the pandemic, and also without the need for this moment of economic and health emergency. The large wineries, on their own way, have the tour done, while the small and medium ones do not. And, in this sense, we believe that the aid which is then conditional on its return, as was said, is not the solution and the formula for sustaining this productive fabric, but we believe that the formula is the direct aid. We, in the amendment we were proposing, referred primarily to Royal Decree 5/2021, which refers to direct aid from the Government of Spain and the opportunity to make use of it in relation to this sector, but it seems that from the institutions, both from the Basque Government and from the Parliament, there is a capacity to deal with this situation and this need. Let us hope that it is actually through direct aid, because I say that in the second point it is said "to analyse a specific line of direct subsidies". Well, let us hope that this analysis will lead us to the conclusion that there is a need for a direct and specific line of subsidies, especially for SMEs and micro-enterprises. Then, on the other hand, the situation of wineries, small and medium-sized wineries, is critical also in relation to European aid and the new CAP model, and also in relation to – and data were given – the collection of non-direct aid, but given by the House, as long as they are essentially directed at the large, or to a large extent directed at the large, basically because they are linked to the stock. And then, on the other hand, at this time of pandemic, SMEs and micro-enterprises, which essentially sell to the hotel store, because, at a time of pandemic, obviously, they have not had the capacity to make use of their product, to place their product on the market, while large wineries, which sell to large distributors, in this case to supermarkets, have had the opportunity to place the product on the market; moreover, they have had greater capacity to sell at this time of pandemic. In any case, on the other hand, we also believe that the points that have been added regarding the need to internationalize these products and to support the digitisation of the companies in the sector are interesting, because we believe that what has to do with the generational relief can propitiate precisely this digitisation and this technical improvement of the sector, but that it has to be accompanied by the Basque Government or by the impulse and leadership of the public sector, because there are – I say – SMEs and micro-enterprises that have obvious difficulties in being able to professionalize in this sense, and here the Basque Government and the deputies have to put efforts and push it. But, in any case, it seems to us right that these points have been included. And, without extending much further, well, we thank, as I said at the beginning, the will to agree; that, in this case, we show from this House the need for support for SMEs and micro-enterprises in the Rioja Alavesa wineries, and we hope that these agreements will materialize on concrete issues and concrete initiatives, and especially – which is very important to us – which have to do with specific lines of direct subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u83	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Representative of the Basque Popularo-Ciudadans, Mr. Barrio, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u84	Thank you, President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning again. Well, I believe that, in this matter of support for the small and medium-sized wineries and family cellars of Rioja Alavesa, the first thing to do is to remind or ask the Basque Government to be involved, which is involved in also demanding from the Central Government funds for this type of wineries, for the family wineries, small and medium-sized wineries; to fight them also in the Ministry of Agriculture or where appropriate. But, logically, besides, we have to do things here, and that is the plane in which we move. Rioja Alavesa is very important for Álava, of course, and for the whole of the Basque Country. And, in this statement, we understand that, in what is the transaction and the original proposal, an essential actor disappears, which is the Regulating Council of the Denomination of Qualified Origin Rioja. We believe that it must also work together in the space that is, logically, established together with the institutions, the Government or the Parliament. Well, the Council is also an important actor, which brings together a lot of effort in relation to what is appropriate for Rioja Alavesa, Rioja Alavesa also as the founder of that Regulatory Council, and may you forget... Well, we already know that Bildu and PNV have their particular projection against the Regulatory Council, but, in any case, we understand that he is an important actor, and we also know and want to say that all actions are worth doing under the umbrella of the Rioja denomination. And in that sense, therefore, that is our approach already known; it is not new, but it is also from the outset and also on issues such as these. The important thing is to really help, to really help; indeed, to recognize the importance of the small and medium-sized wineries of Rioja Alavesa. But we had said it and focused on how to really help; that is, to draw up a specific plan to support small and medium-sized wineries that will allow for in-depth lost direct aid to compensate for the losses caused by the pandemic and the situation it has generated, which have been around 35-40 %. Moreover, we say this on the basis of the report that HAZI made in 2020 on this issue; that is, it is not something that we get out of the way, but it is there. In other words, this, according to the report, implies that the invoicing of the wineries falls by 370 and 250 million euros; the invoicing of the winegrowers will fall between 40 and 80 million euros, and that is a fact that is there. And, logically, that cannot be, and that must be helped; we must establish that plan that we understood specifically to help those wineries. This forecast for Rioja Alavesa does not agree with the calculations of the Ministry of Agriculture, which has exposed for the whole of Rioja a billing drop of 8.5%, and that is not the case, as has been done on foot here, in our land. That is, of the 400 wineries registered in the Regulating Council of the Denomination of Qualified Origin Rioja, more than half, 236 are in Rioja Alavesa, and, of these, about 200 are small and medium-sized wineries. In them, the condition for COVID has been notorious for reducing sales between 40 and 60%, for increasing fixed costs, for having to house between two or three grape harvests – which also greatly increases those costs –, for increasing costs due to the mildiu epidemic in 2020, or for significant losses also in many of these wineries due to the tourist aspect in which their wine-growing activity converges. And because of these issues, and given that the aid for the wine sector in December has been minimal – it has only contributed between EUR 1,000 and EUR 2,000 per winery on average – I think it is important to take a step further, to have a little more ambition in what can be demanded of the government, as the initial initiative had, but which has then been lowered. We, understanding this explicit recognition of the small and medium-sized winery of Rioja Alavesa, also understood that this aid plan had to be implemented and established in order to compensate for the losses, and, logically, the promotion actions also, in relation to the effort that can be made together with the actors, in collaboration with the Parliament, in collaboration with the Regulatory Council on this whole issue. Indeed, that was the issue that we were moving. I believe that the compromise amendment – which I have to thank Mrs Etxebarria, who has been giving us information on how the proposals were or how they have been; we have not definitively joined the compromise – remains a little short in relation to what was the requirement, remains a little short; that is, that "the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, in collaboration with the actors involved, to analyse...". The analysis is already done; the analysis has been done by HAZI; the Ministry has done so, where appropriate; many actors have done so; the Regulatory Council has done so; the other wine-growers and wine-growers associations have done so. It's done. That is, "start up"; that would be the expression: "start up" that specific line of grants. Analyze, the analysis is done. Then there are other issues related to promoting differentiation. Well, the differentiation has already been launched at the Rioja Regulatory Council four years ago, and it works well. Currently, it allows to differentiate by origin; that is, wine of Rioja Alavesa, wine of municipality, singular vineyard, wine of plot, by aging... Well, we all know it: rearing, reserve, young, great reserve, author, ecological, fermented in barrels, carbonic maceration... further distinguishing, specifically, that of provenance in aging. And, at this time, there is no request to the Regulatory Council to expand the differentiation, and it is Rioja Alavesa who has the most differentiated wines; Rioja Alavesa, which has the most differentiated wines within the Denomination of Origin Rioja. Moreover, in this commercial area, the increase in online sales of supermarkets has been 20% due to COVID, and the habits imposed by the closure of the hotel have led the customer to purchase their wines in this channel. And that is where the Basque Government has to promote the wines of the small and medium wineries of Rioja Alavesa, since the large wineries are the ones that have the greatest presence in that channel and take advantage of the volume at the price. That is to say, in that sense, we should also say that increase in campaigns or what that promotion has to be, given the consequences of what we have seen this year. In other words, with regard to point 4, which called on the Basque Government to promote the process of internationalisation of these products, by establishing the markets in which they already have presence and by trying to open up new ones, it is clear that promotion aid in third countries has been and will continue to be co-financed by the European Union for years. But the important thing now is to recover the Basque and Spanish internal market, which is where sales volume has been lost because other designations of origin are entering forcefully, especially in the line of coischero wines and white wines; here, in the internal market, Basque market, Spanish market. That is to say, in that sense, there is another topic that could have been picked up. And, at the last point, to promote and support the digitisation of companies, options of e-commerce We, as I said before, had presented the recognition – of course, that is also there – of the essential importance of this sector of the small and medium-sized wineries of Rioja Alavesa, and we had said that we would urge the Basque Government, together with the Foral Diputación de Álava, to draw up a specific support plan that would allow for the loss of direct aid. That was important, it was important to leave it black on white, and not an ethereal analysis in relation to "we'll see what can happen." That commitment could indeed have been removed from that situation. And then, as far as our third point was concerned, we were talking about the Basque Government, in collaboration with the Álava Diputation and the Rioja Regulatory Council, designing and implementing those actions for the promotion of Rioja Alavesa wines in the Euskadi area, in whatever area it has to be. We understood that it is very important to introduce the Rioja Regulatory Council as a collaborator at this time, and that is something that the compromise amendment does not do, and we regret it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u85	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u86	President, ladies and gentlemen. Socialists share the interest in helping the family wineries, the small wineries of Rioja Alavesa, and therefore from there comes our position before this motion, because we not only share the interest, but we participate in the support policies, assuming the greatest possible commitments to be able to help the wineries, which is committing ourselves to governance and the approval of budgets so that the real support for the wineries is not only declaratory; be effective, be executive. The wine sector is having a bad time, as is the case with other sectors. In recent years, in Brexit And, therefore, I want to make a reflection that can be headlined "Too many problems have Rioja Alavesa as to add more". And I am referring to the claim to replace its best brand of presentation, penetration and stay in the markets, in shops specialized in restoration, as is the Rioja brand. There are many occasions, here and also after any border, in which to consume a wine first you start by vocalizing Rioja, and then other details already appear. Is it worth replacing this potential for global knowledge and recognition with a brand that is totally unknown? Who's worth it? Why is it worth it? I do not see what defense and support can be given to wineries of any size, which, if they already have economic problems to pay at a reasonable price for the grapes or to produce, transform or sell, for a bad decision they also have to assume incalculable costs of promoting a product that because it is called different needs to compete with Rioja being Rioja, differentiate itself from the adjacent winery being of the same place, compare qualities when sharing soil, climate, type of grape and method of production. Ladies and gentlemen, by confusing Rioja Alavesa wine with any other particular ambition or political whim, neither small wineries nor family members nor medium-sized or large-scale wineries are supported. The rural development of the region, the survival of its localities, its public services or its economic income are also not supported. I wish a sound failure to this bad idea, and it's easy to guess who the biggest losers will be. What I don't wish for is if someone will take responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, I was saying at first that supporting wineries is more about making declarations, designing policies, implementing them and providing them with budgets. This is how there is aid for the promotion of wine and Txakoli to sustain the structure and use of wineries: tax support measures for fractional payments of independent IRPF; suspension of payment on account of the company tax of 2020; increase in deductible costs; financial aid to meet liquidity needs; aid for investment in wineries to improve performance, adapt to market demands, marketing or energy saving; support for new marketing channels and commercial innovation; digital transformation; collaboration between companies; support for external promotion with commercial actions, fairs, advertising; aid from the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the same preaching as giving wheat. Supporting small wineries, families, is not done by attacking those of other sizes; it is done with regulated, concrete policies, since commitment, effectively. Hence our amendment, which reflected on what was being worked on, what was being worked on, and how it was done from the coalition government. We have a compromise amendment, and indeed the compromise amendment we support. It is very reasonable because it insists on what is already being done and because it adds support to what is being done, such as improving public financing for these companies; boosting the consumption of local products and, specifically, wine, improving and expanding supply windows; promoting their internationalization, settling in the markets where new products are already being provided; or supporting digitisation. Therefore, we are absolutely in favour of this compromise amendment. As I say, it is fully in line with what is being done and what remains to be done. And the only thing I hope and wish for is that the many problems that the wine sector already has are not added to it because of particular ambitions or political whims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u87	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mrs. Molina, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, good noon to everyone. Our wine sector every day looks to the climate and weather sky. Unfortunately, they know what it is to pamper their crops and at the last moment to lose the harvest because of a hail, a late frost or the millihu that razes their hectares in the face of despair. They live in constant uncertainty, also encouraged by market changes, with factors such as brexit If we add a pandemic to this equation that has caused the closure of the hotel industry, restrictions on mobility, the paralysis of tourism and the decline in demand, it is clear that the wine sector is going through a difficult situation. The family and small wineries of Rioja Alavesa, focused on the internal market and hospitality, have been the most affected. In addition, they depend on their own farms, but the countryside continues its cycle, outside of the health emergency. And while the crops accumulate in the cellars, they have to continue to face the costs of their businesses. The vineyards and little cellars are the weakest in the face of this situation, because of that dependence on other cellars that buy grapes, and for a market connected with the host, which is now shaken by the coronabirus. The familiar and small works of the Erriox of the Arabs, which keep the sector alive, and promote the field development and social development in the region. In recent years, they're making a lot of effort to invest in and to adapt themselves to the markets which are more and more acute than reality. And enoturism is becoming more and more important every day. Although there are many problems, we must give our sector value, which is one of the best fields in the world of the Errixa of the Arabs for the vineyards and wine-makers, for it is known among the nations by the quality of wine and by the manner in which it is made. In this district, large brands and small family buildings live which, based on tradition, work with great quality. The sector of vineyard and wine-making is 26% of the raw internal product of agriculture nutrients. Last year, the sales down in the interior market was 4%. And that's why we have to protect and help the sector. Like I said, the diagnosis is not good. And from our group we understand the need for support for those wineries, which are the ones that support the region. And this is also understood by the Basque Government and the Foral de Álava, which are making a great effort to support the sector right now. In fact, the board that Tapia runs has set up a series of helps to satisfy the needs, and it's important economic injections for the cellars and vineyard keepers. And I'm sure they're still working on that line. As Mrs Tapia said in her question, aid amounting to EUR 58 million has been granted over the past five years, of which 42 % has been allocated to SME wineries, which has led to a higher quality and design of the product and to higher sales abroad, especially in small wineries, which, despite their size, many of them also export. The sector has always been supported by our institutions through different types of aid, and will continue to be so, and also in the face of extraordinary situations such as the one we are experiencing. In fact, as early as June last year, the counselor presented at the headquarters of the Rioja Alavesa Quadrilla the measures designed in collaboration with the sector to deal with the crisis caused by COVID with financing and promotion actions. Thus, the Department of Economic Development has increasingly financial tools, such as the Lehiatu Ardoa, Sendotu, Nekafin and Ardoa Mugagabe programmes, i.e. investment programmes to support the wine sector and maintain the productive chain. But it has also implemented initiatives to promote the marketing of wine in all the Basque wineries, through a marketing portal, and, in addition, it continues with support for the creation, adaptation or equipping of accommodation properties for temporary staff and with support for innovation and digitisation. And, under the framework of Ardoa Basque Wine Office, a tool that aims to promote and promote brands that form part of Euskadi's industrial fabric in beverages, it is carrying out initiatives such as the promotion program with Basque Wine badge or the Gure Ostalaritzan Basque Wine membership program, local product promotion campaigns or training courses for the management of wineries and wine tourism, among others. And, since the Álava Provincial Council, they also support the sector with a number of extraordinary measures to deal with the situation generated by COVID, such as the reduction of split payments; aid for wine farms, with an area limitation of 50 hectares, to ensure that aid is allocated to small wineries; aid for the promotion and advertising of wines, and special events also, in addition to continuing with the usual subsidies, ranging from aid for investment in agricultural holdings, vineyard insurance or organic farming to aid for young farmers. I would also like to remind you that aid is granted in proportion to and according to investment capacity, i.e. the largest investor receives – logically speaking – and SMEs are financed at 40%, while large companies are financed at 20%. Therefore, making them think that the big ones are financed more in front of the small ones is cheating. It is clear that the situation we live in is difficult but that institutions are driving important help along co-ordinately and within their jurisdictions, centered on specific programs and protected from the model of the family garrison. I think you'll agree with me that the first sector is a personality skull, that the value of culture, social and environmental values will have to continue to be a strong and reformable sector. The Executive's commitment to the sector is absolute, and so the Councilwoman recently showed when she said that there will be no lack of aid for wineries, because it has clear priorities, and the wine sector is one of them. Although so far the Spanish Government – your Government, by the way, Mr Soto – had denied aid to wineries, the Basque Government has, precisely because of this, advanced lines of aid with its own funds. Because you have criticized the distribution made by the Basque Government of aid, when you have not even taken it into account. I don't know why they claim here the duties they don't do there, but, well, you'll know. Finally, we have come to a compromise amendment, which I will not repeat either because it has been mentioned here. Well, lehenik, eskerrak ematen dizkiot Etxebarria anderari egindako lanagatik. That's akordio we're beating her up. And, well, at the first point, in fact, we all recognize the value that our little wineries have, as it couldn't be otherwise. And at the second point, we found that a specific line should be analyzed. Of course, it must be analysed, because resources are limited, and unfortunately the sectors affected by COVID are innumerable. So, well, first you have to do that preliminary analysis. And then the points three, four and five were very important to us, which are the ones that we presented in our amendment, in which we promoted the consumption of local products, of course, of our products, and that process of internationalisation as well, which is the greatest sign of support we can now make to the sector. And, on the other hand, also, to encourage such digitisation, because it is clear that they have to continue in that line. We believe that, as I said, this is an important agreement, because we continue to support the sector and its productive fabric, and from the Basque Nationalist Party we will always be in that line. In conclusion, I would like to say that, of course, the institutions have to support the sectors, but it is also in our hands to do so. And we can encourage more consumption of our wines; we can always – it sounds a little bad – drink a little more to support the sector. [[Barres]] And I think we should, because we do them a favor, and, besides, obviously, we will all be much happier. [[Barres]] That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Molina. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Miss, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Much will be said and will continue to be said about the world of wine and Rioja; its designation of origin, the rupturist proposals and, ultimately, what we can do to guarantee a model of prosperity for our field. Politicians must define themselves as the tool capable of bringing to this House the problems of society, channeling them and, if possible, solving them. The question – at least we understand life and business in Vox – is not to fight to see who gets how much, but to make business viable, interesting for the pocket, to guarantee generational relief and so that our field can continue to make us a little better every day. True, it is not fair for large corporations to have greater facilities than small ones. Of course, small and medium-sized wineries do not compete on equal terms, but is the matter resolved with more subsidies? The crisis of the COVID-19 has done much damage to the wineries of these characteristics by their modus vivendi Rioja – we are clear – is synonymous with quality, excellence. A wine from Rioja Alavesa speaks of Spain, and with every glass of Rioja wine that is taken in the world someone remembers our country and thanks us to the winegrower, winery and our land. Well, while we also support local trade and the nearby economy, sustainability and prosperity go by looking outside. We have nothing to envy any other wine region in the world; let's go out and compete. There's wine for everyone, for the inside and for the outside. Besides, as the partner said, the more we came to drink, the better for everyone. Therefore, let us abound in that, in working for and for excellence, in ensuring aid to overcome this terrible blow that the pandemic has brought, but let us be more ambitious. Let us think about long-term sustainability, in the future generations living from the very peculiar farms that we have in Rioja Alavesa; let us support excellence; let us fight for a clear product differentiation, for opening up the external market to small and medium-sized enterprises. An endless amount of public money is spent on political promotion abroad; for, start looking at the product of our land, an excellent treat that guarantees the future of our field, that will survive if it is profitable and that it will not always be able to depend on subsidies. Let us not use wine as a political and separatist propaganda, since this is what our wineries need the least.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u91	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing on the answers, madam, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u92	Thank you, ma'am. Well, first of all, by putting us a little serious, it's okay to relax a little bit and make some jokes, but I think the subject requires seriousness. First, I would like to thank Mr Soto for his availability and generosity. And, well, I'm telling you that, in a way, we share the reservation about what can be done with the agreement. But, well, I think it's an important agreement, and we're going to think that the development that's going to be given you is going to be in the sense of our proposal. I would like to reiterate to Mr Barrio that, as we have already said, Rioja's designation of origin does not protect all wineries equally, depending on their size. And it's clear that they also think they're not represented. They are looking for an alternative, and it is not a whim; it is the answer to an imperative need. He says differentiation works well, but, come on, I'd like to know for whom; I think the data is very clear. He also says the transactional has been cut short. I would like to know if I had signed the first proposal I sent you, which I think was rather more explicit; I have quite a few doubts about that. I say to Mr Prieto that, obviously, we do not agree with his reflection, with the reflection he has made on the differentiation of the wines of Rioja Alavesa, but, well, of course, I also appreciate his disposition. And well, it's clear that we're defending different models, that I'm not going in to argue. I tell Mrs Molina that we have the same data, but that we make a different interpretation – the same –. That's why I'd like to talk about two other things in the build-up. Mr. Barrio has mentioned at the time of pandemia the sale of the Horeca channel has sunk, but it has not been so with the wine which is bought in shops and supermarkets. People bought wine there to consume at home. And in this respect, too, we perceive a problem to be solved: In the shelves of the supermarket, we only see the marks of the larger ones. We have a clear example of those stakes established by Basque Win in the great supermarkets. We've seen some very expressive pictures on the networks. Louis Cañas, Faustino, El Coto. Are those the marks that need a push? Counselor Arantxa Tapia, in response to our inquiry, said Basque Wine Office had been created to position this type of wine a little more special in sales channels, with that brand. Are these the wines a little more special? Are these the ones who need to position themselves in the market? Aren't they well-known enough? We're paying to position small warehouses, and we got the big ones positioned, pulling prices, using dumping. Besides, these companies have enough resources to strengthen their own marks. Where are the marks of the little cellars? Who advertises them? Not for now, Basque Winek. We think it's a matter of correction. On the other hand, the government says there's money for the cellars without using the 218 million that Madrid will send. Well, that. Well, Rachel said it's working. It's about time. We hope the agreement will be helpful and that we can speed things up. In this process, we'd like you to consider this idea. I'm sure you've often seen a picture like this: equality versus equity. Equality does not naturally lead to balance; it does not naturally lead to fair division, when in a state of principle there is an evident instability. Family houses, small cellars, and vineyard keepers need more protection to see the horizon, to overcome the obstacles and difficulties that precede them, to be the future. Let's balance the balance. Let us assist the little ones in particular, for otherwise they will not succeed, for they will not endure. The glamorous greenhouses are getting bigger. Who are you looking at? Get off the cruises and watch the tourists come and ride buses? To feed on too much tourist exploitation concentrated in a few villages? And in the meantime the neighbouring peoples were empty? and with them the root of the district, the life, the culture, the people, because this pattern does not establish the population, it does not weave the region's sociational nets. And that's the real prize-winning money we've had. We're not doing this right now. We know that many of the aid given to the sector comes from Europe. The Basque Government has no power to change percentages or criteria, but that will not happen with its own resources, I suppose. This can be broken down according to the criteria that are considered most appropriate to the needs of the sector, if desired. We'll see what happens. We will be alert from our group, from the various actors, to see if the agreement is actually being carried out and if it is not lost along the way. We really hope not. We believe that the compromise we have agreed is also acceptable to the rest of the groups. All points are fair, necessary. We'd like your support. It's still possible. Let's not lose the chance. It's clear we agree on the basics. Let's cover with one mouth the family houses and the little cellars of the Errisha of Abak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Together, Poedemus. Yes, from there. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u94	- Valerie, gracias. Well, Mrs. Molina, a nuance. Last week, the number of activities listed in annex 1 to the Royal Decree was expanded. It has been the Basque Government that has recently verbalized that it is not going to make use of the money available in those economic amounts that the Spanish Government has put on the table, because it considers that with its own resources it is sufficient. 7 billion aid that the Spanish Government is putting into operation; not 2,500, as Mrs Calviño wanted, not 5,000, as Moncloa wanted, but 7,000, for an obvious reason: for the impulse of our political formation within the Spanish Government. Of these 7,000, including those activities listed in Annex 1, to promote and activate the productive fabric of family wineries in La Rioja, the Basque Government has said that it does not want a euro. Let us hope that, in the light of today's agreement, which sets out the analysis of the need for direct aid, we will conclude with a conclusion that they are needed; and that they will materialise, because I say to you: the Government of Spain, 7 billion direct aid. The Basque Government will analyse the need for direct aid. Let us therefore hope that the agreement will materialise and that we will move on to the obvious need for such aid. In any case, welcome the agreement, although it certainly does not raise what we in our amendment put forward in its entirety and in its entirety, as I believe is the case with all the political forces that have agreed and negotiated today. In any case, it is a minimum, it is a minimum to be able to favor the productive fabric of the family cellars that are going so badly. And let us hope that, as far as the designation of origin is concerned, we will have a chance at some point to discuss it, as Mr Prieto said, because I am sure there will be. But, in any case, I do not think that it was up to us today, in relation to the points contained in the compromise and the amendments, to go too far in this. But, in any case, we are open, since our political formation, to talk about such a relevant issue, as has already been done at the Alava Councils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u95	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Euscala Popularo-Ciudadnos's representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u96	Gracias, president. Well, let's see, for us, Mr Soto, the Rioja Designation of Origin is essential in the debate on Rioja Alavesa wines. It's essential. And, as such, we are going to bring it to this debate in which we talk about Rioja Alavesa, because we think he is an essential collaborator, together with the Álava Diputación, together with the municipalities, with the companies, with the wineries. It is essential in that regard. And trying to hide it, turn it away or, I don't know, make it disappear, or have that intention, so it's not good for us. Rioja Alavesa is part of the Denomination of Origin Rioja. She was the founder of the Rioja Alavesa of the same, there for the year 1925. It is the wine region with the most tradition in Spain. It houses the cellars we've said before. We are the Rioja Alavesa a pioneer region in the export and reference of Rioja wines in the world. We formed 13,500 hectares, an important part for the quality of our soils and the old vineyard inside Rioja. We produce 90 of the 256 million liters of the Denomination of Origin. Everyone has an extraordinary quality. And, in addition, we are leaders in Rioja's field of wine tourism. So, in that sense, this is the connection there is, the real connection, the good connection, the fetten. So we need to talk to the Regulatory Council and we need to agree. I mean, there are things that are being discussed, but here is the key to good collaboration and that all this, in terms of internationalization, promotion, goes forward, in which the institutions come together. And we miss that, we miss it in the pronouncements that some groups make. Bildu, of course, does not even want to hear about the Regulatory Council and such, and the PNV, therefore, less and less. That is to say, in that sense, we miss him. And Mrs. Etxebarria, I think you've had to figure something out, haven't you? Because, indeed, when Mr Prieto explained the compromise amendment, what did he say to him? So, with regard to the compromise amendment, he insists on what is already being done. That is what Mr Prieto said in the compromise amendment: he insists on what is already being done; that is, it does not go beyond, it does not go beyond. And that goes to think, because we had talked..., I mean we were understanding that we could go a little further, concretely. And, moreover, from our point of view, within that amendment, collaborators and actors disappear. There has been talk of analysing, but we have to get going. It is called a "specific aid plan", but put it into operation, because the analysis is already done. I have already commented on this before, when HAZI himself makes a report on the billing losses of winegrowers and wineries. And that analysis is already done; it must be put in place. That is why the compromise amendment was a step backwards with what was the original approach, which I do not know if we had signed, but if you had agreed, then we would have voted equally, would we not? But in that sense, logically, I think it's been a setback. And, well, in relation to what Mrs Molina said, very well. As the grandson of riojana de Elciego, I do my part, I do my part. And I say this to you in accordance with Mrs Etxebarria's request: very seriously; I comply with my part. I understand that you have put a goal on Bildu in relation to this issue. Because, in the sense of being able to take one more step, having been a little more ambitious, having said that "there is money and we are going to start it; not only to sell it, but we are going to get the Basque Parliament to start it", well, we have stayed in the analysis, haven't we? We will see; we will continue to demand it. And I say again: the Rioja denomination is essential, and we know that it will always remain. And the good thing is that all this is done under the umbrella of Rioja, of the Regulatory Council of the Denomination of Origin. It's fundamental. The identity debates around the Rioja Alavesa are a setback and harm the wineries, especially the small and medium-sized ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u97	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Etxebarria said that she did not want to argue with me about differentiation. And Mr. Soto said he's not playing now. I will explain to you why he is playing now and why we need to discuss this matter. What are we doing right now? We are in a parliamentary chamber trying to see what are the problems of a private sector and what is the contribution that can be made from the public so that these problems do not lead to unemployment, economic problems, population problems, etc. I mean, the public is trying to help the private. How is it not appropriate to deal here with policies that can lead the private, a part of the private, to increase their number of problems, such as moving from a globally recognized brand to a brand that is totally unknown? This is a problem, a problem for the future of wineries that want to join such an initiative; it is a problem for their economy; it is a problem for employment; and therefore it is a problem for the public, because the public ends up arriving. And this is what we need to talk about, because Mrs Etxebarria was talking about this in her question that motivated this motion, and Mrs Etxebarria was talking about this in the motion. What happens is that you've done it very carefully. Good. Okay. I've wanted to go a little further. Therefore, it is the right time, when we are talking about wineries with problems, to tell them that, for them to have less problems, the best thing they can do is not to complicate their lives, knowing that Rioja wine is sold simply by saying Rioja. And from there it is when comes mats, provenances, graduation, type of grape – good, type of grape, yes, it is the same –... Anyway, there's another kind of thing coming. And I think it is very important that we speak clearly and forcefully about this. Because, as I said before, this differentiation of the vineyards of Álava, this capricious differentiation of the vineyards of Álava, is a particular whim of some wineries that have the capacity to drag others who believe that the manna is behind it, and it is also part of a political whim that can be paid very dearly by the wine sector and also by the whole of the Alavese and Basque economy. And knowing – here that food sovereignty has been talked about so many times – that in what we are really sovereign in this country it is in wine, that in what we really are surplus is in wine, considering that we cannot consume it all because of the consequences it would entail, it is very good that we are able to go to export, to sell in Euskadi and to sell in Spain, but also to sell in Europe and to sell in the rest of the world. And to sell in the rest of the world we need large wineries; we need wineries that are able to maintain, to sustain the supply of wine where markets are opened, and not to have very limited productions, which end up selling by quotas and almost to the point of hiding because there is not enough capacity. Therefore, let us not wage a war between small, family, medium and large. Because, if there are 200 families in Rioja that have winery – let's put it by case, that I don't know exactly now the number – multiply by the number they want from those families and the number of people who live from those wineries will come out. There are wineries in Rioja, unique wineries, which move 200 workers, 100 workers and many more. Just a cellar. I mean, let's do something harmonious. This war between the little ones and the big ones is already good. Hey, do you think that for Rioja Alavesa to be enhanced in its trade, in its population, in tourism, etc., it is good that Marquis de Riscal is a reference in the world, as Guggenheim can be in culture in Bilbao? Listen, it is Marquis de Riscal who brings people and people and people, not only to Elciego, not only to Marquis de Riscal, also to the rest of the localities, for its proximity and because one day it gives for a long time. And, therefore, that has an extraordinary mobilization. Finally, let us debate with a little common sense and a little political harmony, which seems to us to be in confrontation between the small and the big, and this is another mistake. Because where the big one comes in, the small one can come in. Because the large wineries open up markets for export where the little ones can go, and where they can and should go accompanied. And, therefore, there is a policy which can be perfectly harmonized and which, however, here, with a political myopia, sometimes, in some political positions is being denied. I bet for this, not for that myopia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u99	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mrs. Molina, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u100	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Soto, the government did not contemplate such aid at first, and then rectified, of course, because it forced the sector to do so, because it had not been taken into account. And I'm glad you've rectified, but you haven't considered them before. And, as I have said, the Basque Government is moving forward, one step ahead, and it always takes account of this sector and others. And that's why he's got games designed for them. You don't care where they come from, but I assure you they'll come, and you know it; besides, you know it. Of course, it won't be thanks to you, but, well, there will be. Etxebarria anderea. Well, he was telling us about seriousness. Man, this government also believes me that, otherwise not, but serious with the sector has, like the party I represent. You spoke of interpretation, which is key; of course, of course, especially when it is done wrong and in a crooked way. Because you were talking here about the Luis Cañas winery. The winery Luis Cañas was born of a man whose name was Luis Cañas and who only made his own wine, shared it with his wife and has been growing and evolving. It has set up a very prosperous and very important business for the region and for the world. And what's going on? That you no longer have the right to aid, precisely because it is a big business? Well, anyway. The small wineries will have to be protected, but the balance between the large ones will also have to be sought. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Molina. He mustn't speak. So, after the discussion, we're gonna vote for EH. Collect, together with Podemos-IU, Eukal Socialists, and Eubertarian Corrections signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 41; the given votes, 75; the supporters, 68; the contrary, 0; abstaining, 7; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u102	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. I interrupt the whole meeting at this point until four o'clock. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-two. At four o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u103	Good afternoon, everyone. Number of points in theme list: "In the same way as the parliamentary group of Podemos-IU together, the defence of the employments of the aernautics of the Auraba. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mr. Hernandez, representing the Podemos-IU team, has the word to present and defend himself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u104	Good afternoon, everyone. Over the past few months, as you know, a series of worrying collective redundancies are taking place in the aviation sector in Euskadi. Various employment regulation files have been processed, resulting in the disappearance of hundreds of direct jobs, and have also affected different branches of groups such as Aciturri, Alestis, ITP and Aernnova. On 1 December 2020, 77 workers at the Alestis plant, 43% of the workforce, almost half a company, were out of work through a completely disproportionate and unfair regulatory file; 56 of them through forced layoffs, most of them women, an issue that has already been considered discriminatory by the Labour Inspectorate itself. Earlier this year, on 19 January, the committees of ITP, Aernnova and Alestis companies joined forces against dismissals in Araba and jointly mobilized in Gasteiz to show that the cuts in the sector were becoming widespread. Following the demonstration, the spokesman of the Aernnova committee insisted that the crisis in the aeronautical sector is short-term due to the pandemic, and showed the willingness of the staff to negotiate short-term measures to avoid unnecessary redundancies. The answer, weeks later, in February: 82 employees of Aernnova were left out of work; 55 of them through forced layoffs, without the company taking into account other less traumatic options, such as ERTE, day-time reductions or pre-retirement. He preferred to destroy jobs. All the companies in the aeronautical sector are suffering the same damage from the employer, who also responded in another important mobilization on 30 January, also here in Gasteiz. More than 50 company and collective committees in struggle filled the streets to demand that companies not get fired. Five employment regulation files had been processed so far, affecting different branches of the abovementioned groups (Aciturri, Alestis, ITP Aero and Aernnova), with a reduction of several hundred direct jobs. Workers and their unions report that a short-term situation is being used to implement a sectoral adjustment strategy, ahead of hundreds of jobs and important working conditions achieved after many years of effort and significant public support to companies in the sector, public economic support that has generated significant benefits for these companies. It is not an unusual practice, especially by large groups, to take advantage of crises or short-term problems – whether sectoral or corporate – to implement measures that are called adjustments in the employers' jargon, which are basically dismissals or structural deterioration of working conditions. And it is clear that the covid crisis is not an exception. Since the beginning of the pandemic we have been observing how in different industrial sectors and in different regions of the state the same pattern is being repeated: it is nothing other than to take advantage, in many cases, of a timely and short-term fall in billing to undertake structural adjustments and to deploy plans for mass layoffs. A restructuring of the workforce which will hardly be reversed when a period of economic growth resumes, especially in the sectors with the most skilled jobs. This practice is especially painful for workers when it comes to companies that have had very important benefits in recent years, in the years leading up to the pandemic. We continue to denounce from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita that they are not acceptable practices when they have had previous millionaire profits and when there is so much public money also put at the service of the becoming of private companies, as we did last autumn in this Parliament through a non-law proposal, which found the majority rejection of the House. The Basque aeronautical sector is no exception; this kind of redundancies are being committed which can be avoided, and we must, in our opinion, also push from this Parliament so that they do not occur, not only because of what it means for those who lose their jobs – who, of course, also – but also because of the fact that human capital of great importance to the country's industry and development is not lost. This sector accounts for some EUR 2.5 billion per year, representing 1.3% of Euskadi's GDP and 6% of the industrial sector. And it is one of the industries that has been working best to date, as it had been growing for ten consecutive years until the arrival of the pandemic. It is therefore an industry to be preserved, because of the importance it has for Euskadi in terms of economic and wealth creation, and it is also an industry characterised by highly skilled jobs, which gives it a relevant role also in terms of the general interest and for the future of the country. Qualified jobs that make it even more important not to lose those jobs that already existed, because losing qualified jobs is an even more difficult problem to reverse than the loss of unskilled jobs. It is true, we are not going to deny it, we are not going to deny that the aeronautical industry in Euskadi has found in the coronavirus pandemic an important crisis for the paralysis of commercial aviation. The current situation in the aviation industry sector in Euskadi is complicated. That must be acknowledged. That's right. The weight of this sector is deteriorating, and companies are resorting to the undesirable destruction of jobs and undermining the working conditions of hundreds of workers. But as true as this is the fact that we are talking about a clearly short-term, temporary crisis, the duration of which we cannot predict accurately, but which is clearly linked to the duration of the pandemic, to the crisis caused by it and, above all, to the drastic but short-term reduction in mobility linked to commercial aviation. In the face of this very specific economic crisis, with such specific characteristics, it is a huge mistake for companies to take measures to destroy the added value of the high qualifications and experience of hundreds of workers in the sector. They are divesting from the best capital they have: the workers. A mistake that can assume that what today is a cyclical crisis ends up being, by the very decisions of the companies, a structural crisis for the sector at the end of the current situation. A mistake that we think we should criticise and, above all, put what is in our hands so that it is not committed by companies. All these redundancies, those that have already been carried out and those that are intended to be carried out, in addition to unfair ones, are, as I said, a great strategic mistake in the medium and long term, because employment in the aeronautical sector is the main capital precisely in the sector. We are talking about a job not only of a certain quality, but a job of high technical qualification. Women workers, workers have been mobilizing for several months to demand that companies do not apply these kinds of measures. They have also called for the involvement of the Basque institutions in these structural measures which companies are undertaking in a clearly cyclical situation, measures which, in the end, are basically based on redundancies. It is up to the Basque Government to ensure that such an industry is maintained, but it is also up to it, in our view, to ensure that each job is maintained. The working party to the conflict has, from the outset, put on the table possible alternatives to dismissals. The employer side has preferred to move forward, instead, on the path of job destruction. This crisis in this sector – we are going to repeat this again – is totally short-term. With the reactivation of air traffic, activity levels will return to 2019 levels, where the sector enjoyed very good health and had excellent forecasts. This is what the sector itself says, not just the workers. Unfortunately, as we have seen in the various processes of employment regulation, companies have used these for other purposes: improving balance sheets, eliminating decent wages or reorganising staffing, so that it has little to do with a short-term reduction in the workload. The initiative that we have agreed today following the non-legislative proposal that we bring to Parliament, we think it has a virtuality, precisely in that message that is being sent to companies: that the formulas are not the layoffs, that the formulas are the ones that are being proposed by the workers through their class unions since the first day, the short-term, temporary formulas, and not the structural formulas in the form of layoffs that are being applied by companies; and, moreover, with an added message: the readmission of workers already laid off. Therefore, we think that today – or we try to do so – we are putting our granite sand in this Parliament with this agreement to launch that clear message, because we believe that the workers in the sector have been very clear in what they are saying: there are possible measures to prevent all such redundancies. For the time being, companies prefer to apply other measures. I think it is important for Parliament to send that message and then, indeed, through collective bargaining, to agree on those measures that are currently being demanded by the workers. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u105	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing over the teams that were running the corrections, representing the Basque Popular Group-Ciudados. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u106	Good afternoon, everyone, again. Thank you, Madam President. The importance that the aeronautical sector has for the Basque economy has already been sufficiently credited with the data provided above; I think we are all aware of them. It is a fundamental tractor sector, which we believe has not been given due attention. To complete the photo, I will add that, although the sector is important for Basque GDP, however, our presence at the international level is quite small. We do not have any OEM rating companies, i.e. aircraft or engine manufacturers, and we only have four TIER1 rating companies, i.e. certified OEM suppliers: two aircraft and two engines. In spite of this, according to Hegan, the sector in Euskadi gave jobs – indeed – in 2019 to some 5,200 workers. And today we have to regret major job losses that are taking place and that are affecting many people who have seen their life plans seriously altered, to whom, by the way, we want to express our solidarity here, and with whom we are committed to working actively to launch initiatives that will enable them to regain the employability they need to compete again in the labour market after years of employment. As we said in our speech on 5 March, we believe that this crisis was coming from afar. Because Mr Hidalgo has insisted on his previous intervention, many times, that one of the causes of the problem is that it is a cyclical crisis. But, Mr. Hidalgo, what if it wasn't short-term? What if, from what it was, it wasn't short-term? So, would the redundancies be well done? Is that the difference? Well, we really don't share the idea that this is a purely short-term crisis, a result of the pandemic alone. And this is true, although it is true that the pandemic has precipitated and exacerbated the crisis, showing that many of the companies in the sector did not have the strength to resist an invitation such as has occurred. When we talk about the problems of aeronautics prior to the pandemic, we are not referring to the conclusions of some crazy analyst, but to contrasting facts, such as, for example, the end, the termination of the Airbus 380 program, from which metal hardware was made from the rudder in Berantevilla; the horizontal stabilizer that made Aernnova; the engine 3900 of which made parts ITP and the multitude of suppliers of the environment that supplied them. We can also mention the halting of the production of the Boeing 737 MAX, more than a year old, freezing the entire supply chain; the fall in production of the Airbus 400M; or the doubts about the continuity of the C-295 program, which has been supporting manufacturers like Aciturri for years, which mechanizes some of those parts in Álava and treats them with local suppliers. These facts are an example that clearly shows that the crisis in the sector is not just short-term. I repeat: the conjuncture that has done is to aggravate a structural situation, a structural deficit that came from before. In addition, to complete the photo, another important factor must be taken into account: the aeronautical sector, in addition to the global problems affecting the rest of the industrial sectors, faces a very important process of transformation and accelerated change, due to the need to reduce emissions, the need to adjust fuel consumption, the need to change the model of air transport, the need to introduce new production processes, the need to incorporate new materials and new surface processes, among other changes, without forgetting the multitude of innovative projects included in the European Clean Sky 2 initiative. One of the clearest structural weaknesses in our industry, namely the Basque aeronautical industry, has been, in our view, the poor investment in research and development, which has been decreasing since 2011, from 13% in that year to 4.63%. Although the sector had increased the number of jobs since 2011 by 29%, workers working for R & D+i in aeronautical companies, between 2012 and 2019, had been reduced by 3.5%. In other words, employees grew up, and employees who worked in research and development were down. And we all know, I suppose, that investment in research and development is key to a high-tech sector like this; that in the rest of the countries, which are aware of being in an intense race for competitiveness, what they have done is the opposite: far from reducing their investment in R & D, some have substantially increased them. And we all know that investing in R+D+i is always betting on the long term; we know that they are not solutions that will never happen in the short term, but in the long term. And the long term, as always, has become short. And the lack of investment in Euskadi has caused us a structural weakness, which has put many of the companies in the sector and a large number of jobs at risk. Does that mean that if we had invested more in R & D, we wouldn't have had this problem? We would have had this problem, but less, surely, because the companies would have been stronger and would have endured better. And what has been the role of the Government in this process? Well, that is what we asked the Economic Development Adviser at the 5 March monitoring session and, in addition, in the seven written questions that we then put to the Government, five of which, by the way, still, after almost two months, remain unanswered. And the counselor wanted to leave us very quiet, telling us that, with regard to R & D, we did not worry, because we had two very powerful resources, such as the Advanced Technology Centre and the Advanced Manufacturing Centre of Aeronautics; and that, moreover, as the Catalans say, the Basque administration, the outlaws and the Basque Government invest "a lot of money" on the subject. But, when we have received the concrete data, our concern has not been cleared, because we have confirmed that the R & D bet by the council has risen in 2020, the year of the pandemic, to the astronomical figure of 260,365 euros in two projects for CTA, through the Elkartek programme. By 2020, CTA received 27% less funding for the Elkartek programme than in 2019; and by 2019 they had already received 29% less funding than in 2018. And, globally – and this information comes from the 2019 CTA audit report, which the same advisor provided to us – the total grants from all the public agencies that counsel mentioned last March 5, in 2019 were 30% lower than those received in 2018. Everything, as you can understand, before the pandemic. Because, as I mentioned earlier, the crisis in the aeronautical sector comes much earlier; it has its roots in a period prior to the crisis of COVID-19. In parallel, we note that, in the Basque government's Euskadi Next programme to access European recovery funds, questions also from our parliamentary group, the government tells us that "no project is envisaged for the aeronautical sector". In other words, we have no choice but to conclude that the aeronautical sector, a strategic sector, has not been given due attention by the Government or made the necessary investments. And so, when the crisis has come, it has split in half, and its businesses and jobs have been severely impacted. That is why we ask you in our amendment to defend and promote and invest in this sector, because we believe that we must go to the root of the problem; that research and development in aeronautics be taken seriously, because it is essential to sustain the productive fabric. Because, in the industry, and especially in the high-tech industry like this one, you have to invest in the base so that then there can be a little building. We ask you to push forward a specific plan with concrete support measures, which will enable you to support the employability of workers who have lost their jobs, in addition. Because we think, as we said before, that the problem is fundamental and that it is not arranged to readmit the farewells. Because, Mr Hernández, companies have not fired them for the innate evil and excessive ambition you see in any entrepreneurship, but because they have no choice but to do so, and because, if they do not, they would endanger the whole entrepreneurship project, affecting many more people. Nor does it seem to us, Mr Casanova – I say this because of your initial amendment – that you ask the Basque Government to solve the problem by actively involving itself in the labour conflicts that are taking place in the sector, as a result of this structural crisis – I repeat – because we believe that this should not be the problem of the administration. The Administration must ensure that companies can have viable projects, and we must do so before EREs are raised, because when they arrive, the solution is never good for either companies or workers. Unfortunately, there are job losses and productive tissue that no longer have a remedy. But it would be wise to look to the future. And, if we do, we can discover that in the aeronautical sector we have a great opportunity, for which every minute that passes is a lost minute. And here the question, then, is: what are we going to do to turn Euskadi into a pole capable of attracting international investors into aeronautics that generate employment and wealth? This is the question that I invite us to ask all the political forces and, in particular, the Basque Government, and with which I conclude my presentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u107	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Myst. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. The PNL that brings us today Podemos and his argumentary is what we had already hoped. But the Government's amendment to this initiative, which now turns out to have been a compromise, is at least curious. It is a cross-cutting issue that affects us all, because Aernnova is one of those exemplary companies – technology, skilled employment – which not all the provinces and autonomous regions of Spain have and yet you seem to ignore. At this point, I want to give a little thought. We cannot always say "the company is bad, and the workers are good". I think we need to look for an intermediate turning point to start working and to make it a positive solution, both for the company and for the workers. Among the various amendments tabled by the opposition groups, there are a number of different solutions: some, in our view, impossible; others, more judicious; but all, including our own, have the same purpose: to save jobs, to save the company and to make it stronger; in short, to continue to generate wealth. It is surprising to see the government defend at this point a sort of anthropological optimism based on formulas such as "we will continue to dialogue", "we will offer you everything in our hand", something that we are already accustomed to. The problem is that they have no credibility either for the opposition, for the workers or for the company. And I'll tell you why. You want to keep the job, and all of us here deduce that too, but we do have clear and accurate knowledge that the company had no news of any kind about the Next Generation funds. No one told them anything; no one informed them; no one bothered to call or ask to make things easier for them. What they had to do is look for their lives in the best way they could. You know how? They had to go to the Government of Spain in order to move forward with their projects in relation to the above-mentioned funds. That's how we defend our companies and that's how we support our jobs. From that full monograph of the end of last year we have all drawn a clear conclusion: obscurantism and more obscurantism, something that we are already very accustomed to. Aernnova is a key company in our region. We can't let him bleed. We have to empower it, and you are under an obligation to take care of your projects. This will also help to maintain jobs. We believe that pharaonic ideas such as VAD should be put aside and that food should be given priority. Remember Alava and the Alaves, and support our companies before it's too late. As we have already seen during this plenary session, in many cases it has happened: Euskaltel – we have treated it today–, La Naval – we treated it the other day. I just hope that we do not have to add Aernnova to this long list.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u109	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u110	It's just that this initiative is making me a little weird, because it's not the right thing, it's not the right thing, it's not the right thing, it's the kind of thing I feel around or in shapes. For the first time, in the original proposition, what was demanded in the original, was an expression in favor of the aeronaut of the Arabe, and he asked her to join him in the assembly with the M.A.A.'s Distraction. And here, our consistent frame, and our handling, are of the EADE; and, as it is logical, the dispute has been transferred to the level of society, because the sector of the aeronautics, beyond the Araba, has its delegation in the Biscay, and in other countries. It seemed strange to me, too, that in this planning, in this defence of employment, to make a complete abstraction of context in its original proposition; and that Dictate of the defence of employment is applaudable, and that we agree not to mention it about the general situation in which the sector is living. It was strange to me, and I believe it was strange to all the rest of the party, because in all these corrections these two correct elements have been placed on the table, on the one hand the subject of playing at the table of EAE, and the consideration of the situation in which the sector is suffering beyond the outlets. The other thing that happened to me was that I had to bring into this legislature a dynamic around or for workers' workers without co-ordinately co-operation and without serving them. I don't think we should impose our own diary or mark our rhythm. And the other thing is that I have done a very strange thing in this case, and that I agree in many things with the representatives of the PP, and I think their correction is quite satisfactory. I'm grateful to Mr. Gil Vegas that we don't agree about the jobs treatment like that is not what I'm saying. But it's true they'll propose something that will mark a difference between the situation of today and the situation of the following. And in the middle of the media today, there is no transition. After testing that middle course, we'll be exactly the same place we were. Getting in the feds. And I'll start at the end. Normally, the voting is left to the end, but we're going to abstain from the half-way we've achieved, because we think the clabe elements that were to be laid on the table have disappeared. And finally, this half-way doesn't make any obligations at all, any homework, and, as I said before, we'll be there the same place we were before we tried. The Basque Government is asked... , well, the resolution of labour disputes is part of the collective bargaining process. We know what labour legislation exists and what labour reform it is, and what asymmetries occur within the framework of such collective bargaining. The Basque Government is allowed to mutate and lay all responsibility in this context of collective bargaining. The parties are asked to have good will. And the Government is only asked to encourage these avenues to remain open, without any implication. And Mr. Gil Vegas, for example, this morning said he didn't agree with the bonds, and they're legal. It can also be said that there are redundancies that are legal, with which we politically disagree, because they are not essential redundancies for the good running of the company, but they are redundancies that seek to adjust the accounting, to provoke a greater asymmetry in the sharing of profits in favor of the employer. And I think there are layoffs here that are taking place in that context. The concept of a short-term crisis also disappears. And it's not a semantic issue. If a crisis is cyclical, the measures that can be taken, even with labour legislation in hand, are not the same as those that can be taken if a crisis is structural. And, therefore, it is not a question of nuance or analytical framework; it is a question with clear implications. And in this transaction the short-term concept disappears. Therefore, as we said, there is no level of demand for the Basque Government, which can be profiled on this issue. I also find it strange to see – and this may be a bit of a bilbainada – positive things in that transactional that are, precisely, taken from the amendment by Euskal Herria Bildu, and here we are talking about rooting, we are talking about R & D, things that are not in the amendment of the proposing group or in that of the groups that support the Government. But, nevertheless, to enunciate, to grasp some concepts, but not to add, together with those concepts, a series of responsibilities to the Basque Government seems to us to be to enunciate good intentions, but to really leave things exactly as they were. There are two major debates, whether the crisis is cyclical or structural, on the one hand, and whether there is a crisis or there are two crises, because I believe that here there is a confluence of factors, we believe from our group. Thus we analyze: that there is a problem associated with COVID, which is absolutely undeniable, because in the aeronautical sector, as in a few, there has been a total and absolute stoppage of activity. And that, of course, there is no company that supports it without some kind of adjustment. And they were telling us that that is temporary, and that the initial predictions of four or five years of break that they were doing from the cluster or from certain advisories are not going to be so drastic and that, therefore, it is going to be a cyclical crisis and linked to a series of factors that, in the medium term, can disappear; and that, therefore, there is muscle in those companies, and financial muscle, based on the hundreds of millions that have won in previous years to pass this transition, this is really a desert journey – it is undoubtedly – but there are reserves in those companies to make that transition without sending people home. And then it is clear that there is another problem, which is more in the medium and long term, structural, which is the sector's own transition, as pointed out above, which is a transition from the energy model and which is a technological transition. And, of course, there is another route to take, betting through measures that will allow the sector to position itself and reposition itself in a future scenario, in which there will fundamentally be changes in the level of motorisation. Yes, it is true that a company – the same can happen to ITP that can happen to Petronor – a company that makes engines to react, probably will see that they are not going to be made, not in five, not in 10, not in 15, but maybe in 20 years they are not going to be made engines to react. And it is true that electric motors will be incorporated, that others will be incorporated with both batteries and hydrogen; they will also be incorporated with synthetic fuels. There is a transition, and we will also have to resize a sector, the aeronautics sector, which is leading in emissions, among other things by an absurd oversizing of the use of the aircraft, which in some places is already leading to flight bans of certain distances. There are therefore two issues to be addressed here: in the short term, that desert crossing associated with the timely collapse of the aeronautical market, and, on the other hand, a transition. In the amendment to be adopted, what contributions is being made to all this? Well, I really see that none. Companies are taking advantage of a series of drastic layoffs, and Mr. Gil said it's not out of evil. No, it's not for evil; it's for money. It is not out of evil; it is to earn more money, because, if they fire workers with good working conditions and old age, and when the crisis passes they hire people in a precarious way, it is because the company will earn more money. Not out of evil, not out of money. And we're seeing things that are really denouncing. When we talk about the root of a company... Listen, if Alestis, instead of making the decisions here, he makes them in Seville, and if he concentrates the bulk of the job destruction here, he'll have to report it. And if that destruction of employment is concentrated on women, it will have to be denounced. One company, Alestis, had been exemplary in the incorporation of women into the workforce and now exemplary in the liquidation of women's employment. Listen, and if it turns out that Alestis, apart from concentrating the redundancies here, makes black lists of people linked to the unions that have most opposed the ERE and dismisses them – taking the delegates, who cannot –, fires them to all the others, we have to denounce it, right? Well, I don't hear any of that here. It will also be necessary to denounce the police attitude in pickets when they break the face of the head of the Workers' Commissions Industry, action that even motivated the response of the lehendakari – exceptional – and it is because he was a union leader, as on another occasion he also denounced a police excess when they hit a photographer of the newspaper Deia So here's what we proposed to take from the horns the bull. Aeronautica's sector is a challenge, and fun has to answer them, and he's got to be a leader in the design, with the sector, with the workers and the challenge of research and development, facing the reorganization. In this sector, the sales will be there, the fuses will be there, there will be changes. And again, I'm sure if we don't do anything, they'll steal our wallet. The other day Mrs Tapia said that the government wants to enter ITP. Well, then, as the joke says, we've already entered almost every company in the country: we've almost entered ITP, we've almost entered Euskaltel, we've almost entered La Naval. But the result is that, one year after the biggest crisis in the history of aeronautics, which coincides with a technological and transition challenge without comparison, the balance of what has been achieved outside the declarative is zero. Then we believe it was time to stake for the job, denounce the practice of the corporations, denounce the passiveness of the fun, and, too, to look into the future, and to put the need of some extraordinary plan of research and development on the table, about the challenges and wagers of romance, of public investments and sectors. But, in my opinion, the subject is very fat, but we are left with very little consequences. As they say...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u111	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u112	... the birth of the mountains.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u113	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President. The aeronautical industry is a strategic sector from the economic point of view for Álava and Euskadi; from the point of view of stable employment, quality and professional qualification; and from the point of view of the projection of the territory. As we all know, the aviation sector has been particularly affected by the global impact of the coronavirus crisis, its close link with the fall of tourism and global air traffic, which has led to significant falls in the sector's turnover. And the truth is that, beyond losing us in data and business figures, this situation has also generated very negative consequences for a good number of workers who have lost their jobs directly or are immersed in a situation of uncertainty, to whom we have transferred our solidarity and support from the Socialist Group. From the Socialist Party we have always issued the same message, which we reiterate: the goal must always be to maintain employment. And, in this regard, when we have had the opportunity to listen to the workers of those companies, both in the Committee on Labour and Employment and in the private meetings we have held with them, from the Socialist Party we have always stressed our commitment that, through collective bargaining and the agreement, companies and legal representatives of the workers should seek alternative solutions to dismissals that enable companies to face the difficulties they are experiencing. And, on every occasion, there has always been an offer, that of the way of mediation. But, as you know, this institutional mediation is only possible if both sides require it, but unfortunately it has not been so. Today, as I said at the beginning, we have a good number of people who have lost their jobs and court proceedings in the face of a scenario of uncertainty. And we, in view of this situation, want to appeal to the need to seek agreements, with that objective, which must be shared, on the maintenance of jobs. As we noted in the compromise amendment that we have reached with Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, to whom I am grateful for the search for consensus, we share that, in view of the current situation in the aeronautical sector, the recipe must be to take measures to accommodate the sector in a resilient manner, to maintain and take advantage of the specific knowledge of the workers and to adapt to the new challenges facing the sector. And this is necessary if our main objective is – which is – the maintenance of employment and avoiding the precariousness of working conditions. And we do not want to waste the opportunity to urge this Parliament, through collective bargaining and the agreement, companies and the legal representation of workers, to seek such alternative solutions to those dismissals which allow companies to face the difficulties they are experiencing, considering short-term formulas which avoid dismissals and enable the readmission of dismissed persons; and, in the same vein, to urge the Basque Government to continue with this offer that has always existed and, with it, to cooperate actively to keep these channels of dialogue open. Because that dialogue between the parties is necessary. And, if anyone closes to it, or sees it as a mere procedure to complete in order to end up producing effects as traumatic as those we are talking about, it simply deserves our public reprimand. Because that process, that strategy to be competitive, in the view of the socialists, cannot involve the destruction of employment, let alone a unilateral or as abrupt and traumatic destruction as possible. That's how we moved him from the beginning. And in this we must be and we are all, all the institutions: Foral de Álava, Basque Government and also the Government of Spain. As you know, on 6 April the Socialists supported in the Congress of Deputies an initiative by Podemos in which we also urged the Government of Spain to work, together with the Basque Government, in the search for alternatives to the destruction of employment in the sector of aeronautics, in the same sense as we will do here today. Because we are aware that we are talking about macro issues, strategic economic policy issues, country issues, which need and have an area of action that transcends the outside and autonomous sphere. And therefore, in the compromise amendment we also urge the Basque Government to continue to work, in collaboration and coordination with the whole aeronautical sector and with the rest of the public administrations, each to the extent of their competences and economic capacity, in order to take the appropriate decisions that will enable the aeronautical industry to meet the challenges of consolidation, competitiveness, rooting, training and R & D+i, as well as the maintenance of employment and decent working conditions. As you know, the Basque Government has been working hand in hand with the cluster, not only at the level of Euskadi, but also at the state and European level, in the analysis and search for solutions that go through liquidity, consolidation, collaboration and digitisation processes. I will not devote any time in this speech to reading these proceedings. They are known through the responses and requests for documented information answered by the Department of Economic Development, Sustainability and the Environment. They are also aware of the measures taken by the Government of Spain in this regard. And I'm not going to because I want to keep what Councilwoman Tapia said in this very House last March 5th: "Can more be done? Yeah. Should more be done? Also." And in this we are, proposing and addressing joint actions between the different institutions that allow the aeronautical industry to meet the challenges of consolidation, competitiveness, rooting, training and R & D, but with the maintenance of employment and decent working conditions. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u115	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians. Mr. bottoms, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u116	Yeah. Good afternoon again. Well, the truth is, none of us have a magic wand to make disappear the devastating effects that the covid has had on employment. Any speech to be made in this rostrum about this must be a complex speech, full of nuances, because the situation is complex and because there are many paradoxes. The four companies in which layoffs are being made and which have a presence in Euskadi have been mentioned; half are Basques, and the other half are not: Alestis, Aciturri, ITP and Aernnova. And Mr. Casanova has launched a concatenation of assumptions. I'm going to add a question to that concatenation. He said, "What if Alestis fire more women than men? What if Alestis cuts more jobs in Euskadi than in Seville?". I ask you a question: do you know that Alestis has among its shareholders 24% SEPI, Spanish Industrial Participation Society? That is, the fourth part of the company is public. I'm saying it because we're with the racarraca racarraca. Well, for starters, first of all, I think we need to celebrate, because the aviation sector is currently most annoyed by the covid issue, and I think we should be glad, first of all, that the European Union is going to vaccinate 70% in July, that is to say, that it has advanced the target date two months before 70% of citizens are vaccinated. And that, well, it will – it's already doing it, because airlines usually schedule flights three months in advance, they usually close the flight schedule three months in advance – well, you're already seeing that there's going to be – or at least programmed are – twice as many flights as last year, which is about 58% of flights, compared to the preCOVID season. The leisure flights are going to recover the tone seems to be faster. On business trips you'll have to see. And on the other two legs, commercial aviation has barely suffered; it has only suffered a 4 % drop – trade has continued to move in this period. And the military sector, therefore, depends directly on the state's public investments; thus, in the last two years there has been no decline. But we are in a global industry; the aeronautical industry is especially globalized, like the naval industry; we compete in the world. And, well, yes, it is true: the four companies I mentioned earlier have announced layoffs. The advantage of talking, in any case, about a relatively small sector in number of companies – there are only 14 companies, of which the tractors are two, the Basques are Aernnova and ITP Aero – is that it allows us to individualise a little. And, going one by one, first we have ITP Aero, which is for sale; Rolls-Royce sells it. Councilwoman Tapia, in the context of the presentation of the technological entrepreneurship plan, made it clear that the Basque Government wants to participate in the shareholdership. As we have seen with Alestis, that is not the solution for not getting fired, but, well, you always have better information if you are on the board of directors, and that is what the Basque Government wants. And the Spanish Government also has a task there, because it has veto capacity and also has that instrument, which is SEPI, with which it can participate if it is in good interest. Then there is Aernnova, who is also an actor who is passing it regularly in this covid, but who is an important actor, because, in this phase of consolidation of the sector, Aernnova, ITP, Aciturri also, well, can play an important role, for example, to take an important participation in ITP and create a single large company in Euskadi that can be locomotive of the rest, of the 13, which can be – let's say – wagons that go behind that locomotive. As for how it has faced itself from the institutional point of view, I don't think I'm going to give any new keys. I believe that the ERTEs have been fundamental; they have been a successful strategy despite the fact that the Spanish state is already at 120 % of its GDP, and one day we will have to explain to people how we are going to pay that. And, secondly, Eusko Jaurlaritza, the Basque Government has – as Gil has mentioned very well; I am not going to expand – two main strategies: the Advanced Manufacturing Center in Zamudio, which is part of ITP, the UPV and the Basque Government itself, and the second is Hegan, a cluster that practically drew the Basque Government along with the companies, and whose goal is that companies in the sector compete cooperatively, two terms that seem oximoron, but that can – let's say – ezkondu, We need to create an environment, therefore, conducive to companies continuing to grow and continue to generate R & D and sound balance sheets. Here, Mr Gil, you have given a figure, and it is that R & D has been reduced from 17 % to 4 %. The data I have is that, in the previous year, in the 19th, the two main companies had R & D between 17 and 24 %. I don't know what his source is. And, in any case, it seems that, listening to him, this from the covid almost seems like an anecdote; it seems that the whole crisis comes from the Basque Government having fallen asleep on laurels. And I'm going to ask all the fellow Members of Parliament a question: do you remember the last time they saw an airplane stop in the sky? I don't remember, that is to say nothing; there are no flights. And if there are no flights, there is no aircraft wear, there is no need for supplies to repair them, and, of course, airlines lower their order. Airbus – and I'm going to give you an interesting data – today announced that it has won 362 million euros, which is a data that workers should put on the table. But the number of orders this first quarter has dropped from 356 to 39. This is the situation, and therefore nothing of anecdote; it is passing canuts, and we all understand why. In the short-term or structural discourse, I say one thing: the balance sheets do not understand political discourses, parliamentary matisations or transactions. I mean, a balance sheet is numbers, and what you have to see is the time frame and see how much money there is in the box to deal with it. And, according to that, it is necessary to ask, as requested by our group, the company to be responsible and to try to fire the fewer better people, first, to maintain their productive capacity and, second, to ensure that the measures are not traumatic. Secondly, we must always ask workers and trade unions to have a positive attitude towards negotiation, which, in this case, in most cases – and we have had them here; we have welcomed them into this very Parliament – so they have. That wasn't the problem. Therefore, nuances and speech, in short, with nuances. That's the goal we're looking for. That is to say, to make a middle term planning, see how much money there is in the box, and to take measures. So I think we can send a message of hope this evening. Aeronautics is a very new sector: Sener was born in 1985, the engineering company in Gechio, there he went on his principles. And the year before, in 1984, there was nothing in Basques, and since then 14 companies have been created in our country and have created enormous wealth and divided it. We are therefore going to try to continue sowing, rooting our companies in the territory and accompanying them in the generation of future employment, trying to make sure that the lowest possible human capital is dispensed with in the fields. To this end, there is only one key: collective bargaining within companies, which includes multiple measures within the framework of medium-term industrial plans. The Government will continue to work on the two keys that I have given, in the Advanced Manufacturing Centre and within the Hegan cluster, and also being part of that cast of actors who will try to consolidate the Basque aeronautical sector to give it muscle and so that it can endure in future crises with the same strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u117	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Passing on the answering round, the representative of the Podemos-IU team together. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u118	Yes, thank you. Indeed, the original initiative that we register is the same one that we bring to the Congress of Deputies, to which Mr Rico has referred, and it is the same one that we also bring to the General Councils of Araba, because, fundamentally, what the initiative seeks is to launch a clear message that, at the moment, is a message that goes to the companies, beyond the final formula of the drafting. It is a message to say that what is needed are short-term measures in the face of those structural measures which are being laid off and which are the measures for which companies in the sector are clearly betting. This is what we have been hearing from the workers, who, in our opinion, have also shown with data all this time and that we have also been able to hear them in this Parliament. This has been picked up in the transaction. And, of course, my group believes that we could not let go of the opportunity to launch that message from this Parliament, the message we have heard repeating over and over again. Companies are taking advantage of a short-term crisis linked to this fall in flights to implement structural measures. And, therefore, the message is that these decisions are a mistake and that short-term measures should be taken that do not involve layoffs and that, moreover, at this time – because a lot of layoffs have already been applied – it is possible to readmit layoffs, certainly, through collective bargaining. That is the formula, because, of course, the workers have already said that they agree or that they have put forward a series of measures in this line that is exposed to short-term measures, and it is the companies that are justifying the measures they are taking on the basis of the argument that it is a structural crisis. That is why I don't think it's that debate between whether it's a short-term crisis or a structural crisis. I can agree with Mr Gil Vegas and also with Mr Casanova in the criticism of the Basque Government's action in industrial policy and in relation to this particular sector. But, for us, that debate about whether it is a structural or cyclical crisis is not vague, because, above all, behind this initiative what we are looking for is that concrete message, very in the short term. We did not bring in a debate on industrial policies, we did not bring in a debate on aeronautics policy – logically, we have to talk about that – but what was of interest to us is, above all, that those redundancies that are being committed at this time, that this Parliament can in some way point out that they are an error, that they are unfair and that it is the contrary measures that companies should apply. Because it is true; Mr Casanova was right: many things would logically be missing in a debate like this. Many things are missing from the compromise we have reached with the groups that support the Government, and many things are missing from an original initiative that we have brought to Parliament, and many things are missing from the rest of the amendments, of course also from the Ertzaintza action that we have all seen. But for us – and that is where I refer to the granite of sand that we believe we are putting in this Parliament today – it is that message that we believe is not just any message either; it is the message that the measures to be taken are not those of layoffs, and that workers must also be readmitted. Because this crisis, which was said by Mr Gil Vegas to be coming, I think you would see it coming, because, of course, when the workers were here, they openly explained to us the great forecasts that were in the sector, which does not mean that there were no problems, of course. So we are, therefore, minimally satisfied with this agreement, above all with that message that we believe it launches, above all, the Basque aeronautical companies, which are committing unfair redundancies and unnecessary redundancies, and, above all, the need also for the readmission of people who have already remained on the street, whose redundancies, in many cases, are being brought to justice.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u119	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Popular-Ciudad Momento's representative. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u120	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, Mr Hidalgo, it must be my mistake, but I cannot find in the transaction that you have made any reference to the readmission of the unemployed. Is it my mistake, perhaps? In any case, I recognise that this proposal has highlighted something that I believe we all share, and that we have to pay more attention, we have to worry about a sector that is strategic, that is driving, that is the aeronautical sector, and that it is clear that it has not been given the necessary attention, among other things because of its ability to give employment, but not only because of that, but also because, in fact, it attracts research... Anyway, it has many virtues that I'm not going to break down here. But late; as always, late, when things no longer have any remedy, the same thing that happened to us with La Naval, the same thing that happened to us with Euskaltel. Late. And now, then, I repeat: it is good that we talk about this, because we can learn something anyway. But I, in particular, think we should think about the future. By the way, I was wondering... Oh, I left it in my seat; that's too bad. The source of investment in R & D is Hegan, the cluster itself. And besides, I showed the chart here – I have it there too – I showed the chart here the day we talked about this with the counselor. He said that, however, I prefer to focus on the future, because I think that's really what matters; it's really what we're going to do. I mean, what are we gonna do from here to the next few years so this doesn't happen again? That's the million-dollar question. What are we going to do to really support and strengthen – not to do what we do, but to really do – to strengthen the Basque aeronautical industry and its entire sector? What are we going to do to really strengthen investment in R & D+i in the aeronautical sector? What are we going to do to attract international investment? Because this sector needs a lot of capital, powerful international investments. I mean, what kind of measures are we going to take to change our ecosystem, our economic ecosystem, so that this country becomes a kind of attractive investment attraction pole? What are we going to do to support start-ups effectively? I mean, what are we going to do in the future? Because what's happened to us doesn't have much to do with it anymore. And we said it this morning too; it's always the same. When we get to these points where workers are already fired, companies are weakened, the sector is in deep crisis, we can do little. So let's think about the future, and let's anticipate what's going to happen before it comes, because, if not, we're kind of wasting time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u121	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mists don't... Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u122	Well, starting a little bit with Mr. Gil Vegas's last thought about being late, partly, okay, and partly, not. Sometimes you remind me a little of the one who arrives two hours late at the cinema, enters, and sees that on the screen puts "The end". And he says, "Jo, this film has been short-lived." Well, look, La Naval has a parliamentary tour of dozens of initiatives. And, of course, you have arrived, unfortunately, as you said this morning, at the epitaph of La Naval and Euskaltel on your parliamentary tour, but this has been done for many months and for many years. In the aeronautical case, he said he was partially in agreement with you. This initiative I think is certainly late, because it's already a bit of a bull past, it's a bit of a bull past. Look, of all the economic definitions there are, one that I like best is the one that says that the economy is the science that predicts the past. For, to some extent, here we are talking about redundancies that have already taken place, referring to the framework of collective bargaining so that I do not know exactly what. Because the redundancies have occurred, and 15% of employment in the aviation sector has been liquidated. And we think we should remember that if it was not for the first plenary session of this Parliament that much was left for us to bring the question to the councillor with regard to the future of the aeronautical sector, a question that we reiterate again later on in relation to the future of Aernnova, and that for the third time we brought back with regard to the sale of ITP and the possible interest of some Basque group in its purchase. So, well, there will be those who have arrived in time and there will be those who have not arrived in time. But it is true that referring to collective bargaining now seems a little late to me, especially knowing, as Mr Ekain Rico said, that someone is taking advantage of the structure of collective bargaining as a process and from there is not really trying to find solutions, but is already predetermined that he is going to fire an equal number of people. You, Mr. Rico, have said, "That deserves public reprimand." Well, I am waiting for it; I am waiting for a parliamentary initiative to materialise here, a public reprimand for such practices. Because, really, when we were talking about the criticism of management in Euskaltel, or when we can talk now and have some impact on what we do about the redundancies of the past, it is precisely as a warning to navigators and as a political position of this Parliament in the face of practices that we consider unacceptable. And, in that sense, a criticism had to be made, both in the case of Euskaltel and in the case of these companies, to premature dismissals that could have been avoided perfectly, because they were companies that –reitero – had the kidney lined, lined; we are talking about hundreds of millions. And what cannot be done is that companies that are earning hundreds of millions, and scratching some more in public aid, when they have a period of losses, immediately resort to mass layoffs. You can't accept it. And it is time for this Parliament to proclaim it that way, because we must have co-responsibility, co-responsibility. One thing – and we have said this on many occasions – are companies that really have strong difficulties, for the cyclical sector and because the bad cycle is going on, or because there has been a particular problem in that company. And they're companies that really don't have where to take them many times, and there's no way to save them. And another thing is the companies that are making hundreds of millions and that first of all start throwing people out. Short-term and structural – I said earlier – ez da soilik hitz kontu bat. The short-term has legal effects. A ERTE is applied to the short-term, and an ERE is applied to the structural. Short-term is: "You are not going to drink any more water today or eat. And structurally, he's not gonna drink or eat in a month. Let's see if we can see the difference. And legally, it's short-term: temporary adjustments; and structurally, it's: people go to the street. Therefore, it is not a semantic issue. It has been mentioned also that, thanks to vaccinations, they are re-examined, but just as they are re-examined, even the savings of sale. But the people who fired him? The clerks from Aternnova said that the examinations with clusters are made before the vaccine existed before the vaccination existed. And we all agree that luckyly vaccine changes everything, changes everything in society and in this sector, no doubt. If, then, we are made to publish, which was not fit, I think we have need of something to say here. I don't know if there's any material possibility that's going to be able to re-establish some of the employees fired, but I don't know if that's going to happen, but from now on, you have to tell the eucalyptics that when there's trouble, the institutions have to help. And when there's too much trouble, we'll see how we can help. But if the companies are solid, if they have been profitable in enterprises, if the corporations have distributed these benefits among the stockholders, if they are financially strong, they can hold their jobs in bad moments, and not act lightly. And I think this thesis is perhaps a matter of formula; it is likely that, in this thesis, we may come to a certain extent. I don't think there's anyone here, for different reasons, in favor of the destruction of employment. It is true that every one will have his own formula, and that he will believe that his policy will succeed. But I think that little agreement, if it isn't today, must be published for a moment from this parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u123	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u124	...when you have the ability to resist. That's the message you need to send to Escal economic sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u125	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Casanova, I am drawn to some of the things you have commented on, because I believe it proves that it is not part of the reality, of the real scenario in which we find ourselves. You said that the government is allowed to profile these processes. Of course, then it also falls into contradiction, because it recognizes that it knows the legal framework in which we can move in the field of action. I come out with the feeling that in some respects you are not aware that, in addition to the meetings that we have been able to have and those that we have participated with workers from these companies through the parliamentary committees, your group is not the only one that has met with them. I can assure you that every time we meet with them... And you can also go to the sitting paper to see that whoever spoke to you told you in the committee itself, I directly transferred to you the offer of mediation by the Basque Government, and that you would resort to that offer, but you know that the current framework requires both parties to request it. And, if you don't give that request from those two parties – it has happened to us on other occasions; with the stoves, for example – you can't do it. The reality is that there is a royal decree of the year 2012, also referred to the EREs – to sum up the title of the royal decree, which, like almost all royal decrees has a title of four or five lines – which establishes what the labor authority has to do before a process of ERE. And, really, with that modification that was made in 2012, it is impossible, because what would be the prior permission of the labor authority has disappeared, it has disappeared. So, the ability to act in this previous area, because, really, there is no such thing as that, there is no such thing as that. The same thing we have to address is that, in other areas, not in this House, we have, among other things, to reform, where appropriate, that royal decree of 2012. I believe that in this respect we will agree with Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unitida, the Socialist Party and a few more parties than those in this House; others do not, others do not. But I'm sure we've found some points of agreement. And the goal will have to be to encourage agreement in all these processes. And in that we can agree, but the stage is what it is. That's the stage we have. And I want to value the transactional, because here it has been said that the transactional more or less comes to say nothing. It's not true, it's not true. It says very clearly that this Parliament understands that, in view of the situation in the sector, the measures to be taken must be those which allow the sector to be accommodated in a resilient way, to maintain and take advantage of the knowledge of the workers and to adapt to the new challenges of the sector, with the main objective of maintaining employment and avoiding the precariousness of working conditions. I think it is very important for this Parliament to say this, especially if we are constantly talking about issues such as decent employment, because this is linked to decent employment. Because transactional also highlights the need for social dialogue, collective bargaining and agreement, which are also necessary to ensure decent work, as we have often talked about here. We call on companies and workers to seek alternative solutions to layoffs that allow these companies to face the difficulties that are emerging, considering short-term formulas that avoid layoffs and allow the readmission of fired persons. Point one, Mr. Gil Vegas, point one. You can read it. And we also call on the Basque Government to work actively to keep these channels of dialogue open, which with the law in hand is what we can do. I mean, it's not like we're profiled or we're off to rositas. No, no, not at all. Finally, on the industrial side, this amendment calls on the Basque Government to continue working with the sector as a whole, with the rest of the public administrations, in order to take the appropriate decisions that will enable industry to meet the challenges of consolidation, competitiveness, roots, training and R & D+i, but with the objective of maintaining employment and decent working conditions. And, of course, there's one thing that has caught my attention. He has taken us out – in the first intervention he has been –... He says, "Of course, your amendment doesn't take this, it doesn't take..." And he gave us a list. But I have gone to your amendment, and neither does yours, nor does it talk about those issues. We have been given a list of issues here, which is that these types of cases are not included in the compromise amendment. Well, neither do yours. I believe that you could have signed this compromise amendment today, and that you could even support it. They're not gonna do it. We think we put our granite sand. And I want to acknowledge Mr Jon Hernández's ability to agree with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u127	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians from that point. Mr. bottoms, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u128	From there, with your permission, Mrs. President. Well, I've given all the slates I wanted to give. Ekain Rico has explained the origin of the negotiation, and has also defended the middle course. I, as a sinopsi, had three bolts: the first, to continue to invest in research and development, to continue in investing governments, and even corporations, which is a question of two; the second, a wager for collective negotiation, a wager for elasticity, and a wager for corsponsibility, both for workers and for corporations, and the third for the administration, and the government, of course, is ready for this mediation, but in this case the parties have not asked for it. Beraz, we have nothing but to persist in the lines of action so that in the recovery we have the production capacity that the sector currently has intact, and we must ask for maximum responsibility from entrepreneurs and workers while we are actively working on the consolidation of the sector, which gives the Basque aeronautical financial muscle sector so that in future crises, that we will certainly come, well, we have – let us say – the solid foundations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u129	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. The discussion is over, and we'll vote together for the half-correction signed by the Podemos-IU, Euskal Sozialists and Euzarian Abertians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 41; 75; the supporters, 47; the contrary, 7; the Abscessations 21; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u130	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. The seventh point on the theme list: "The other proposal of the popular group of Euscals-as made by the parlamentary band of Ciudadans, concerning the defence of freedom in choosing a language model in education. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Gil, representative of the Basque Popularo-Ciudadans, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u131	Thank you again, Madam President. Today we bring to this House an important issue for Euskadi: the imposition of euskera in school through a perverse mechanism, which is the progressive and calculated elimination of the supply of model A in the education system. And it is important for Euskadi because it is very important for many families and for many Basque children who live this anomaly as a serious problem that seriously affects their schooling, their daily lives and their academic results. They are not the ones who vote for nationalism, but they are also Basque citizens, with the same rights and duties as others and who also need us to bring their voice here. And, despite being an important issue, however, it is a topic that is not much talked about, and that is hardly discussed in the newspapers, because a dense cloak of silence has deliberately been cast on it that over the years and years of nationalism has been able to silence and ignore the voices that raised it, trying to give the impression that the problem does not exist. It became very clear when the Education Adviser a few weeks ago in this very House answered a question of control on this same subject telling me not to invent problems where they did not exist. But it is not that they do not exist, but that they are ignored and covered, because that does not suit the political agenda of nationalism. This phenomenon of quelling the problem practiced for decades with the complicity of parties such as the PSOE has resulted in the victims themselves, families who do not speak Basque, having resigned and having accepted that they must assume the situation and that nothing can be done to try to change it, because, among other things, it involves confronting the public authorities and the prevailing political thinking. This is to the point that, despite the fact that on the street we all know how this works, denounce it or claim it, with the emphasis it implies, implies a degree of courage and commitment that few people are willing to assume, because you cannot ask everyone to be a hero. And, more with what has been lived in the past on this earth, it is well understood that there are still people who in certain environments do not want to be pointed out. Let's start by seeing what the law says about it. Law 1/1993 of 19 February states in its fifth article that "It corresponds to the public authorities of the Basque Autonomous Community – quotes – the planning of language models, in order to give effect to the right of parents and pupils to choose the models they wish, as well as the development of administrative mechanisms guaranteeing freedom of choice". I repeat, that they guarantee freedom of choice. Article 21 of the Act clearly states that the Department of Education, Universities and Research shall assign language models to each centre, taking into account the will of parents or guardians and the socio-linguistic situation in the area. By giving the department the opportunity to take account of one measure or another, and with some data or other, these two factors, this legal paragraph has been the crack that has given cover to the systematic and structural exclusion of the right to study in Spanish in Euskadi. And, with this coverage and a determined will, he has gradually built up a harmful situation for many Basque families who do not have an active and real offer in their educational centers to choose model A. How is this troupe perpetrated? Well, you know it well. In the same document in which parents should point out the chosen model, a paraphyte has been included, for example, which literally says: "At the beginning of course 19-20 – for example – in the three to five-year range, model D is the majority, and continues to grow. It climbs seven tenths, and for the first time exceeds 80 %; in particular, 80,4. Model B is chosen by 16.1%, and model A, for its part, is the language option chosen by 3.5% of families. This is one way I would say that nothing subtle of not respecting neutrality and influencing the decision of families, who are being told that if they choose model A they are choosing for their children a minority, marginal and socially pointed option. It is as if going to vote on each ballot put a similar paragraph saying "In the last elections won the PNV, and a certain party did not reach 10% of the votes", but with the difference that the vote is secret and has no consequences, and that families will have to live with the decision taken and its consequences throughout school time. This is unacceptable, because it is very undemocratic. And with this mechanism and other similarities we have come to a reality in which, in the course 2021-2022, 92.5% of the municipalities of Bizkaia, 93.1% of the municipalities of Álava and 97.3% of the municipalities of Gipuzkoa have no public offer of model A. Many families may prefer that their children study in model A, but not at the expense of sacrificing other criteria such as proximity or having to go to another municipality to study. Therefore, the offer is not even real and effective, and therefore the argument systematically used by the Basque Government repeatedly that it is the choice of parents is completely fallacious. But the law says it very clearly: "The sociolinguistic reality of the area must be taken into account". And what is sociolinguistic reality? According to data from the Basque Government itself – a sociological survey carried out by the Basque Youth Observatory of the Basque Government – 80% of young Basques have Spanish as their mother tongue. But, if anyone has any doubts, it's only necessary to see in which language the boys and girls speak when they leave school, in which language they choose to take the PISA exam, or what language they use to relate to each other when they can really choose. According to this data, at least 80% of schools should have model A. And we are in the antepods of this situation, and therefore the law and its meaning are being violated. And, at the same time, it repeats over and over again an argument so manipulative and falsifying that it embarrasses me every time I hear it. It is said that this is about guaranteeing the right to study in Basque. Today you can see it written without any modesty in Bildu's amendment. Isn't it true that forcing someone to do something by taking away all the alternatives of choice is to guarantee no right? As often as this fallacy is repeated, it does not become reality. Everyone here has the right to study in Basque and, in fact, they have it very easy, because all schools offer that possibility. What some do not have the right to study in Spanish. And that is not guaranteeing any right; that is imposing mandatory euskera. A completely totalitarian attitude that has suffered a part of Basque society for years. To impose a language that violates the principle of freedom. And we have said many times that there are two things that should never be done with a language: forbid it and impose it. Because, by imposing it, there is a natural reaction of rejection that explains, for example, why the use of euskera in society has receded during the pandemic when the mechanisms of taxation in school have been reduced. But let no one err; this does not go against the Basque. The euskera is a treasure that we must take care of and protect, but imposing it is nothing more than a clumsy fruit of a totalitarian reflection that attacks the language itself. So please, by euskera itself, stop imposing it. Because, moreover, their imposition is among the factors that explain the poor academic performance of many students who are forced to study in a language that is not their mother tongue, making subjects much more difficult than they could be. A well-known expert like Paco Luna, former director of ISEI-IVEI, in a recently published interview, said about this – it's a little long, but it's worth it –: "The data clearly indicate – he said – that bilingual models, since they were implemented in the 1980s, have worked well enough, although the conditions they had when these models were created were not as good in terms of resources, training or materials. But now, in a certain way, we can say that we have almost reached the arrival station of the language models, that is to say, to reach a single model, the D, which, according to all the data, is the only one that has resulted in euskaldunizing the student. But we could have said that or we could have said it some time ago. At this time, according to the 2017 diagnostic evaluation, almost a quarter of model D students in both stages do not have enough skills in Basque, which we recall is their language of learning. So, we can no longer define it, we can no longer affirm it so categorically. The situation of model D has changed completely. Model D is not the model D we have had for many years; now in the public sector all students are in model D." And he goes on to say: "Perhaps we are not sufficiently aware that this model is described by three characteristics. First, it is a model in which most students do not study in their family language. Secondly, for the majority of teachers, their language of instruction is not their family language, which is the most important working instrument of a teacher. And, third, a very important part of families cannot fully help their children, because they do not know the language of instruction. In addition, we put the entire student to study in a language far removed linguistically from the predominant language. To say it in a clearer and perhaps more brutal way – says this expert – it is as if we were proposing that all students in the Basque Country learn German. That is our situation; we are setting a goal for the whole student without any distinction or separation, because that is our social and linguistic objective. We have not adopted a criterion, as in some cases it was assumed, to do so by socio-linguistic zones, as was done in Galicia or Valencia." So far, the expert's appointment. We already know that under all this there is a project, once again, of perfectly armed national construction and that it is progressing inexorably, even if the cost is to be left aside a large part of Basque society. It is a cost that is assumed and amortized. And it must be recognized that this has been done well: in the long term and rigorously. Which, by the way, has not been able to do in the rest of Spain. During the democratic period, since 78, many good things have happened in this country, and the balance sheet I think is very satisfactory, because we have made progress in freedoms and social improvements. But among the things that can be improved is, from my point of view, that we have not understood education as a matter of State. The nationalists, however, have made this very clear since the first day, and, step by step, they have managed that since the establishment of this system we have gone from two thirds of students studying in model A to the present unfortunate situation. For all this, today we propose that this Parliament urge the Government to make the offer of model A real and effective in Basque education; that the Basque Government be urged to implement model A in any public or concerted Basque centre if only one student so requests, and that the same amount of resources be invested in promoting model A as in the rest of the models, as well as not to guide the choice of families through information or propaganda campaigns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u132	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, Mistto. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon again, everyone. The question of language in this autonomy is one of the great problems that we have been dragging away for decades. A problem that, moreover, passes through the great lie of linguistic models and the totalitarian drift and frankly pernicious to demand the PL2 from all teachers. Public education must ensure a very high level of knowledge of Spanish at the end of the compulsory stage, since the level of competence of a language is not guaranteed only and exclusively by speaking it on the street. A Spanish student, living where he lives, must finish the ESO having a very high knowledge of the main language of Spain, Spanish. In this debate, too, we cannot avoid how seriously harmful it is for our educational system to limit the number of teachers who can teach in educational institutions, as they make them know a language that is not the priority in this region, no matter how much this does not matter to you. I have read in the justification of PP-Citizens that the current situation is pernicious for Basque because it imposes it and that produces rejection. But, Mr Gil, it is not only this, that I also – I agree with your initiative, and I will also vote in favour – but the issue is the big business that has been set up with the language. With the justification of an imagined nation based on language, they have imposed euskaltegis, ikastolas, and distributed huge amounts of euros in euskaldunizzar, and this is where the issue lies. Euskera at any price; so be an unstoppable barrier for many non-Basque-speaking children; so be an injustice for our young people, who end up passing through public education without being competent in either language; so be a lethal blow to the quality of the teacher, who must make major efforts to learn a language for the bureaucracy and not to improve in the teaching of his subjects. The arguments are many and very varied, but given the time I have, I will focus on one, an argument that I would like all the parents of the Basque Country to take into account when enrolling their children. Spanish is our greatest wealth. It opens the door to a world of over 400 million Spanish-speaking people. It gives us the possibility of being able to live by being able to communicate with people of all kinds and many points of the world. These virtues are translated into power, into benefits that no other nation has and that we cannot despise. I do not ask you to renounce your mother tongue, whatever it may be; I ask you to teach in Spanish for your children, for our future and for yours. Let's talk Spanish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u134	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. We represent the Podemos-IU team together. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u135	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, chief physician, good afternoons to all. "In matters of culture and knowledge, only what is kept is lost, and only what is given is earned." This is a phrase by Antonio Machado that my mother and I like very much, and that is that in a matter of languages what we have to do is give, give and give. And, as a migrant mother, with Spanish as a mother tongue, I have to say that I am very proud that Nahia and Elena have grown up and been educated in model D in public school, that they are and feel Basquedunes and that, even, they are handled in English almost better than I am in Basque. In view of the initiative that the PP brings us today, I can only tell you to talk about adding. And we're talking about democracy, and I'm talking about it, because the Elite People have to guarantee that every citizen knows and uses both languages. This is our case, and we are strongly assured in the Constitution, in the State of Autonomy, and in the Law of the Public School. "Hablemos de modelss que suis y no de inliciativas que resten." Nor do I, nor my party, but the scholars of education, who have proved that this system of the three patterns has not been assured that our scholars have studied both of our official languages. And, of course, that hurts social cohesion very much. We didn't lose anything and we won a lot. We add languages and help them to be part of this society, to feel linked to local culture and identity. They're going to see him and live in his surroundings. The languages we learn or have nearby are part of our identity. Therefore, knowing Basque helps to understand, live, relate and develop in this society. And I tell you from experience: by betting on a multilingual model against monolingualism, we are offering you a much more enriching, positive relationship and, above all, helping social cohesion. We live in a volatile, uncertain, complex, ambiguous world, and all this also applies to the educational world. And, in this world where the Basque education system is located, with 40 years of full competence in education, starting from a very fragile and weak situation, has been able to build a bilingual education system. And this I think has several thanks pending. Once upon a time, we must be grateful for the great effort the teachers have made. I have spoken and praised the teachers, but their parents have as much merit as they. We can't all of a sudden, from morning to evening, we can throw into the creek many of the people, and many of them with great personal expense, so that their children may know the rest. We owe to these teachers and parents, in a great measure, the present health and data of the eucalyptus. So our most honest thanks to our parents, teachers, and people in general. And while important achievements have been made in this field, it is time to rethink and reformulate language models. Our system presents serious problems of internal inequity and serious, almost scandalous, situations of segregation. We have not been able to reduce the distance between students at extreme socio-economic levels, and the investment in education in Euskadi seems not to be sufficient or efficient if we look at the results in external evaluations. Our system lives realities of watchfulness of centers and students, and the sharing of responsibilities is not balanced. Let us never forget the importance of social cohesion; On the one hand, the shelter of high elites, and on the other, because poverty is poor, is the ghetto of the people we send to linguistic. This seems to be the future of the PP party for our people. Therefore, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, we bet on overcoming the current framework of linguistic models. Clearly, model A does not work, does not euskaldunize and does not respond to the demands of today's society. We therefore want a new framework that adapts to the new reality. We bet on a trilingual model, but with the euskera as a vertebrate axis, elaborated from the linguistic educational project of each center. A model that ensures that upon completion of compulsory education the student is competent to communicate in Basque and Spanish, both orally and in writing. Moreover, we are also clear that in learning any language the basis is in linguistic immersion; that is, not learning the language, but learning things in that language. Linguistic immersion is the methodology that has been shown to be most effective in achieving marked objectives. And finally, that the necessary instruments are available to guarantee the universal offer and the gratuitousness to learn Basque. In short, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we believe that the really important thing is to move towards schools without segregation, nor of a social, racist or linguistic nature. We are clear that we do not want educational or linguistic policies to be excluded. And, well, in the sense of the vote, we vote against PP's proposal, for the reasons given. EAJ, PSE, and Collection have arrived at a middle-way correction; thank you for the three. The basis of our agreement requires that we continue to improve and improve our system, not only because we created it, but because it is most important that society should be asked for it. Ladies and gentlemen PPko, some of the issues are overdone. Bukatzeko, Félix Etxeberria EHUko katedradun jakitunak behinola esandako hitzak ekarriko ditut hona. Similar bat da, which is very graphic, with today's terminology. He thus described the great failure of the models. And he said, "Let's imagine three vaccines being dispensed. A cures only 5%, B cures 30%, and D cures up to 80%. It makes no sense to keep three different medicines when only one offers good results. And that has been the great failure of the educational system: to offer a treatment A that barely cures and has every vocation of Tirita." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u136	Thank you, Mrs. González. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Arrese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u137	Thank you, Chief. Good afternoon, everyone. Mr. Gil, what a can. What a can and what a sloth. Your proposal today and the defense you've made of it is a fake news fake news You say in your initial proposal – you say – that the current language models have led to a systematic and structural exclusion of the right to study in Spanish. False, Mr. Gil. False. As your current ex-chief would say, "Do you hear him? It's silence." Because not a single family, not a single student, not a single student, not a single student has been left without the language competition in Spanish in this country. Not a single person in this country has been left without language proficiency in Spanish. You also say that for decades in Euskadi the educational system is being used to impose euskera on children and families who naturally do not use it. False, Mr. Gil. False. For decades, for decades, what has been attempted with the implementation of language models has been, precisely, the opposite: that all students gain basic skills in the two official languages of our people, by law. Which, by the way, is not achieved, but with the Basque, not with the Castilian. So, fake. You say that the euskera, that model D is something harmful. False too. False. Studying a language, or two, or three, or four is never harmful to anyone. For no one. And there is no study—bring them in—there is no study that says language learning is harmful to anyone. You also say, in your initial proposal, that "the pedagogical reasons that have been sufficiently studied – it seems – could also be considered; that such learning takes place in the mother tongue – you say – is a success factor in the academic life of a student." False. The best results in the Basque educational system, the best results in diagnostic tests, the best results in PISA and the best results in selectivity, precisely, the student of model D, the student who studies in Basque. What's more, so that you know, take care, so that you know: in 2016, in the French state, between 6,500 educational centers, 6,500, which center was the one that averaged the best score in French selectivity? For, in particular, the Baiona ikastola, the Etxepare ikastola. The students, the students, the students who studied only and exclusively in Basque took the best note of the whole French State, Mr Gil. Stop, therefore, trying to manipulate, because at this point few of us are caught. And let's talk clear, because we have to talk clear. This proposal that you have brought us today, this proposal, far from trying to improve the education system of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, what you seek, from my point of view, is to get a couple of retweets So, Mr. Gil, please, a little bit of rigor. Because this story that you bring us here today we already know each other. When the French Assembly opens the door to the Molac law so that linguistic immersion is also possible in the public schools of Ipar Euskal Herria, Ipar Euskal Herria, the French far right comes out and resorts to it. But when here next door, in Nafarroa, the government of change opens the door to model D in the public schools of the south of Nafarroa, there is also all right against the euskera and model D. And here, where there is no problem, no matter how much you draw it, where there is no problem of coexistence between models, beyond what Mrs. Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita has named, you seek the same thing, which is to isolate the euskera, to end the euskera. But, to be sure, all the data shows this: model A has the days counted, because model A, in addition to being discriminatory, in addition to being segregating, in addition to not guaranteeing linguistic competence in Basque, in addition to all that, fortunately – and I will not make comparisons with any kind of parliamentary representation – model A is residual in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. So, Mr. Gil, what am I going to tell you? Listen, listen to the reality in which we live, listen and respond to the demands of the Basque educational community and society. The situation here is not different, for youth is not at all in danger, for there is not a single student here who does not succeed in the capacity of youth. What is in danger is the same as the rest. And covida showed us that. The latest news we've had, New And in front of that there are alternatives. In front of that, we have alternatives. In our country there is a vast continent of education, there is an extensive social consent, which passes through the eucalyptic teaching, which is what the eucalyptic education offers. In the legislature that was left, even more, by the hand of EH Collect, 20 experts and operators, and the internationals, they all said that." They all said that the system of the model A, B and D is utterly exhausted, and that the only alternative passes through the eucalyptic dive and maintenance. Look, this photo is historic, it's a photograph of 2006. All the manufactures, all culture, media, corporations, Donostian, agree to the European protocol. This protocol, we are far beyond the point of proclaiming, said something clear. He said that the system of modern language is exhausted and that we should jump to another model. But a few months ago, Mr. Gil, all the educationmakers, the school-collectors who represent more than 90% of education centers, the union of Father E.H.H.I.E., of the Christian Schools and Directors, and they said, too, what I said just now: that we should jump over language models and jump to a eucalypating and maintenance model before it's too late. There is an alternative: It's a proposition for creating eucalyponic students. This is what this people has agreed to in a significantly social manner. This is a proposition made by all the builders themselves. And we must make a step before it's too late, for the present data of eucalyptic teachings are significant and disturbing to us. It is true that today we will not succeed in collecting EH in all that we would like, but I think that this deeply interested, politically handled discussion today was not a discussion, that it was not a day to make the quiet and quiet reflection we need about the works of languages. However, I must confess, it's a pleasure, I think, to the extent we've accomplished. And for us, it is really important that we agree with the third point, in which this legislature will require the Board of Education at the end of the necessary school, by modeling the frame of reference in Europe, by every student, at least a step to the support of B2. To conclude, then, the legislature, in order to end it, I would particularly and sincerely thank the parliamentary Arriguega, this consent, by reason of the precepts and liberality expressed for the acquisition of this middle-way; and how not, by González and Pastor, for the preservation of this half-way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u138	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u139	... a little dramatism to this proposal, which, by the way, is repetitive, absolutely repetitive, almost to the point of tiredness. Because I do not know how many times we have dealt with this subject in the successive legislatures in this Parliament. I think the figure is two digits, anyway. And we've discussed it. Until now I was coming from the People's Party of UPyD; now you are picking up the witness from Citizens. But, anyway, whatever the main thrust of the initiative, this, Mr Gil, ends up becoming a sterile debate and without any real path, beyond the propaganda effect that you can achieve, which I think is going to be really little. At the beginning of the autonomous journey, the language models of the school were launched: model A, basically in Spanish; model B, in Basque and Spanish; and model D, in Basque. The aim of these models was to ensure that at the end of the educational stage students could develop freely in either of the two official languages of the Autonomous Community: Basque and Spanish, because both are official languages. Because, when you refer – and the PP also does – to the Spanish as a vehicle language, you will have to bear in mind that in Euskadi the vehicle language is also the Basque, as is the Galician in Galicia and as is the Catalan in Catalonia. Both are vehicular languages. In any case, the problem you raise is not such a problem, because, based on the choice of the language model by the parents, although you want to reject it – so it has been since 83 – families have been guaranteed the freedom of choice of the language model. What happened? That, in practice, model D has been naturally gaining students, to the point that only 3% of children who have access to three-year education choose the model exclusively in Spanish, the official language of the country, like Basque. 79.4% of children in early childhood education are fully educated in Basque. Mr Gil, on his initiative, refers to Spanish as a vehicle language. It is a kind of mantra that has been installed, which also appears in Catalonia, which appears in the national debate, which has reappeared with the approval of the new Education Act. But I want to tell you that this concept of language in educational laws had never appeared, neither in the educational laws promoted by the PP nor in the educational laws promoted by the Socialist Party. It was Mr. Wert, Minister Wert, who introduced him for the first time. And it has, fortunately, disappeared again in the educational law that is currently in force, the so-called Celaá law. In any case, I think it is good to remember that in 2014, with the PP in the government, the Basque Government reached an agreement with the Ministry of Education to leave the system of linguistic models in force in Euskadi safe from the application of the so-called Wert law. Why? Because they understood the Basque Ministry and Government that autonomous legislation guaranteed bilingualism in a reasonable proportion. That was not a Bolivarian Red Government or a separatist Government; it was a People's Party Government. The Ministry understood that in this Community there is a sustained educational offer with public funds to study with Spanish as a vehicle language. A few years earlier, with the government of the lehendakari Patxi López, a third language, English, was introduced into the education system, in what was called trilingualism, which began its course, by the way, with some controversy by some actors who understood that the introduction of English was detrimental to the teaching of Basque. In particular, it was the Steilas trade union that resorted to the courts to establish that third language. And on April 18, the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country endorsed the proposal for trilingualism in the Basque curriculum. It is good to remember again – I repeat – that there are two official languages in the Autonomous Community: the Basque and the Spanish, and that it is the first of them, the Basque, which was in a minority situation and which, from the application of linguistic models, has gained ground. It is true, and that is good, without this having at any time meant the disappearance of the Spanish as a language of usual use; it has neither assumed nor is it going to assume. Spanish will not disappear in the Basque Autonomous Community; it will continue to be used, as it will continue to use Basque. Therefore, we have not just understood the commitment, first by the PP, then by UPyD and now by Citizens, to present a situation of practical disappearance of the Castilian in Euskadi, which is far from reality. While it is true – and that is true – that model D of teaching in Basque is now faced with a new challenge, the last in his career towards excellence: to improve reading comprehension in our language and, therefore, to improve the skills of his students. Nor is it true that there is no possibility of choosing the language model. Another thing is that, naturally, Basque families have been progressively inclined to enroll children in models B and D, especially the latter. And I don't perceive in society that kind of Shakespearean drama you pose the problem with when you come out to the rostrum. It doesn't exist. There will be certain elements, certain sectors, certain groups that feel so, but that is not a majority feeling of Basque society. There is no drama; this troubled society does not wake up because it is going to stop speaking Spanish, or it is going to prevent it from being used in Basque society. That's not true. This aspect, by the way, that there is a freedom of choice that responds to the will of the parents, has already been reflected in the answer that the Education Adviser gave to you in the answer to your question, and we have ratified ourselves in the answer to that question. We understand that the Castilian, as Euskadi's co-official language, is in no danger of disappearing, Mr Gil, none; and that, if model A classrooms have been reduced, it has been because of the parents' decision to choose other models. In the full amendment that we have tabled with the Basque Nationalist Party, we are committed to continuing to allocate language models taking into account the demand of families, according to the freedom of choice and the socio-economic situation – what you have read before – of the area, adapting the educational offer according to the general programming of education and the availability of human and financial resources. In any case, our philosophy is to promote an educational model based on trilingualism, from the Basque and Castilian bilingual base. And if it could be possible to introduce a fourth language, for example, French, it would not be bad either, because knowledge of many languages does not pose a problem; it involves wealth. It involves personal enrichment and a factor of progress and quality of the human being, who is able to learn the more languages, the better. And, therefore, from that base (Euskara-Castellano, plus a third or fourth language as well), we positively value the benefit that it means for students to know more than one, more than two or more languages. And if we do, we will be a much better prepared and healthier society. Don't doubt it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u140	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians. Lady Arriega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u141	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good evening to all. There hasn't been any surprises. In education, the PP-Ciudadnos proposed another proposal as a defense of freedom to choose a language model. And they are assigned models of language to be taught in schools, according to the order of families, according to the free and surrounding conditions of the region, and all this is done according to the regulations which are now established. It also adapts the education offer to family requests, according to the basic criteria specifying the offer of language models. It also adapts the offer of education to the 52th of the law 1/1993, according to the general programming of instruction and the availability of human resources and financial resources. Orduan, do you have a nik gaur donor that is the ez of the Izan surprise, do you have a nik gaurko ekimena donor? Well, ba, ez da beharrezkoa, ekimenaren tituuan jasotakoa jasotakoa geratazzen bedita, betetzen bedita, bermatzen bedita. Baina, ekimenaren titruaz apart, eskaerara bagoaz –that hour ja zaharkituta generated, ze eskaerara ez dugu jo behar gaur hemen entzundakoak eta gero –, ba, well, beast gauza bat aurkitzen dugu. Eta Gil jaunak berak irakurri du, henera, bere ekimenean eskaturikoa: "Let the offer of model A become real and effective; implement model A in any public or concerted Basque center; invest the same amount of resources in the promotion of model A as of the rest of the models, without guiding the choice of families". Then we don't talk about freedom of choice; we talk about implementing model A beyond what families in Euskadi want or require. Hau da ekimen Honen benetak root: euskara gutxiago eta gastelera gehiago. Among the functions that... I'm sorry, that Mr. Gil himself acknowledged it – yes, yes, yes –; at the beginning of his speech he spoke of imposition. If we remember the functions of the Department, among many of them is one that Mr Gil himself mentioned, which is the planning of language models. And indeed, this must be done for the effective purpose of the right of parents and pupils to choose the models they want, as well as the development of administrative mechanisms that guarantee this freedom of choice. And since its adoption, for 28 years, this Government has worked, is working and will continue to work to guarantee this right in accordance with the legal framework in force. There's no doubt about it. Horretan ez isan inolako dudarik. It is the right of families, and families exercise it consciously and carefully, and freely. Aren't we talking about freedom here today? This was the disposition. Families freely choose the model they consider most appropriate for their children. They exercise their right to choose, and mostly choose models D and B, whether they like it or not; that's the case. Gehiengo handi batek aukeratzen ditu eredu horiek, D erdua éta B erdua: gaur egun, ikasleriaren % 95ek. Hainera, portezentaje hori haziz doa urtero, éta oso positiboki baloratzen due ondoren hezkuntza-eredu hori. Beraz, familyk aukeratzeko askatasuna due, age, heifer, ondoren positiboki baloratuta dago. So what's the problem? Where's the problem with the team proposer? For to-day we have gathered together all the rest of the members of the legislature, except Mistha, of course. It's a Basque problem with PP-Ciudadnos, and his eucaphobic speech today has revealed it, Mr. Gil. Mr Gil, Mr Bildarratz, the Sailburu Bildarratz proposed to you in full control a change of attitude, and I too, of heart. After listening to your speech today, I propose that you abandon those prejudices towards the Basque country. We don't talk about ideologies; Basque is a common good – you said it yourself. Say yes; gure kulturak duen altxorrik baliagarriena yes, aberastu egiten gaituena. Horretan nik uste duet ados egon gaitezkeela. Eta hori euskal famíliak badakite; kanpotik datozen famílian gehiengoak, huta ére. It's the Horian family that's wrong, it's the Akatasunez Egina. 28 hit, askatasunez egikaritu ahal izan da hemen. As an example, I'd like to give the data in this course. Mr. Gil's been talking about some, too, Mr. Pastor. At school 2020-2021, 371,956 students have been handpicked out of the Basque University, less students. And 68% of the student of the two networks that form the educational system, 4% has chosen the D model. And according to this tendency, D is the standard that is most required. The next one, Model B, is chosen by 18,2%. And A pattern 13% selects it.4%. It is obvious, too, that M. Pastor said that the election of the pattern D, Child Education, has done 78 points upward. And not only there, but also in Education. The Euchara standard is also remarkable for the elevation of the Hebrew profession: Model D went up 21,3% to 21,8%, and model B, 18,8 to 20%. And that's the Euscatian reality. That's our reality. Los y las jóvenes vascas abscarlan castellano, sí, pero quie's Pidier to eas. To the eucalyptic eudo of Quiet. All pedagogical and professional evidence recommends these language models. Mr. Arrese showed up, gave us those facts. Family chooses freely. They're guaranteed by their institutions. This legislature protects them by the majority, and it is also our responsibility to adapt our educational offer to the community of education, to the demands of our society and of its social and social reality. And that's what comes from the middle of the day. That's what it comes to. But as regards the eucalyptic, as a people, as to the politics of language and the normalization of the eucalyptus, this government is establishing the foundations of an average and long term. But to the challenge of the eucalyptus is not to be answered by you alone, it is necessary that the whole society should be encouraged, that of the rest of the Basque Country and People's Representatives, of the Basque and of the individuals, as well as of ours. The eucalyptus requires a break, if we want to take a step towards complete normalization, and we want to give them. And families, moreover, know that even in the sphere of education, even the choice of language, they encourage it; they agree with it. To go on in the knowledge and use of the Eucharese is the town goal for Christmas, and also for the Jest Party. It's always been, it's not a secret. It's in our DNA. And Government has pledged itself to the highest level, and the normalization of the community passes through the practice of all the departments, penetrating as far as it requires. And here is this humble parliamentarian, who has studied from Infantil to higher studies all in model D, debating here with you in Basque and Spanish. Don't you think that's wonderful? Aren't they able to value it? It's inconceivable. I'm going to finish. I just want to thank the Socialist Group for thanking the Basque People. Mr. Arrese, it's really been a rough negotiation, but it's good and built and it's really grateful. And also Mrs. González, the deputy of Podemus, for his predestination. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing the answer shift, representative of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadans. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Let's go in parts. Mrs González, first of all, to oppose the imposition of something is not to subtract; to oppose the imposition of something is to defend freedom. His speech has seemed to me to be an announcement by a Basquetegi, and I agree with all the things he has said about the many advantages of learning Basque. If I don't doubt it! If I've been the first to say that I think the Basque is a treasure! And I really believe it, but we don't get it wrong, or I don't explain it wrong: it's that what we're saying is no to the imposition of the euskera, not "no to the euskera." You've called me euskalphobic and I don't know how many more things. That no, that you're wrong with me, that is that some of you have given me the impression that you were responding to other interventions, I don't know if from previous legislatures, but to things that I haven't said. That no, that I believe that the euskera is a treasure, that I believe that the euskera must be defended, but that the euskera we do not believe that it should be imposed, for the sake of the euskera itself, even. This is the difference, which I don't know if I'm done explaining it well. Of course, I am a little concerned when you talk about social cohesion, because social cohesion means that everyone has to believe the same and do the same. So it is not social cohesion; then it is an imposition of an authoritarian model. And, of course, there may be people who don't want to learn Basque or have to learn it by force. I mean, if we agree that people who want to learn Basque have no problem! But the problem is they don't have the ability to choose, and that's what we're saying: the ability to choose. Make it clear, okay? This which you have said that model A becomes the ghetto of the elites and the poor, well, I guess it will explain it to me better later, because the truth is that I have not understood it well and it seems to me a barbarity. And, according to his example, the example of vaccines, learning Basque is to cure, the vaccine that cures, and, therefore, not learning Basque is to be sick? But what are we talking about? But what is this? Mr Arrese, it seems good to me that you think this is a can and that you are lazy, but get used to it, because we will talk about this much more. We will talk about this as many times as it takes, because we believe it is an important issue that we have to defend. And, well, I see, by their insults, by their tone, by their screams, I understand that it is a matter that offends them and hurts them. I'm sorry, because that's not our goal. This is not a proposal against anyone, and of course it is not a proposal, at all, against the Basque; it is a proposal to defend – I repeat – the ability to choose. And, therefore, we are convinced that learning a language, Mr. Pastor, of course, is a wealth – fully agreed – as long as it is desired; something else is when we are forced to learn a language. This is something else. Learning languages is good, all languages of the world, the better, but not by force, please, not by force. We are not concerned about the disappearance of Spanish, of course not; what we are concerned about is that there is no freedom of choice. That's the point. And, well, of course we believe that we must ensure that everyone who wants to learn in Basque can do so, and of course we defend a trilingual model, of course we do, but, please, as long as nothing is imposed. That this is the key, that there is true ability to choose, and, in order for there to be capacity to choose, it has to be the model in schools. If it isn't, there's no real choice, and then it is a real imposition, okay? Look, we want a model A with a subject in Basque that goes well, but with a subject in Basque, and a model A and a model B and a model D that guarantee, in fact, that the model or language is not the end, but that, in addition to learning the language, people are able to learn the contents of mathematics, physics, etc., and that it does not become a problem, because then there is a natural rejection towards the Basque, which is not what we want, okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u144	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Miss team. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u145	Thank you, President. Very briefly. When this plenary, this place is brought with it a PNL, which some may not like, I think it deserves the same respect as you and sometimes we don't like it. Starting over there. A multilingual education system with euskera as the central axis, is this not to prioritize euskera in front of Spanish? I think so; they're not on the same level. The other day, we also had an example of how euskera is sometimes very exclusive in the society in which we move. Mr Gordillo intervened, and the president addressed him in Basque when he did not understand the Basque. Isn't euskera exclusive in this House? Of course it is. And, on the other hand, Mr Gil, of course we are in danger of the Spanish disappearing, and I will tell you why, because it is being lost and undrawing, because there are many people who already speak of language, language, language, and those ladies, gentlemen, gentlemen, I don't know where they want to go. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u146	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mrs. González, together is the word Podemos-IU.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u147	This way. Mr. Gil, I'm not here to make any announcements from any Basquetegi. I come here I think under the same conditions as you. I have been free to choose and I have chosen a model that seemed most fair to me, but just as I am the data that Mrs Arrizabalaga has provided you, which are the number and number of families that have chosen a model, a model that equals us, that equals the competence of our daughters and our children, that equals is not getting to have the results that we all want, but that, of course, has done what has not been achieved in other places with minority languages. And he was talking about social cohesion, about elites. Without a doubt, what we are talking about is the private centres, the concerted centres, those places where that model has been used precisely to protect those elites and make them stronger in a competitive world. Where it's going to stop! Or the others, those of linguistic poverty; we talked about poverty, but we talked about those classes to which the imposition of that model that you claim here today also leads to poverty. And, well, just like that, I'm not going to give you any more time because I know that they're campaigning, too – it's true. And we're at a time when there's a lot of dichotomy about public-concerted, communism-freedom, socialism-freedom... And, last, diversity-freedom. A study that came out yesterday and that I recommend, because it is very interesting, speaks of school segregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u148	Thank you, Mrs. González. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Arrese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u149	Thank you, Chief. It says we're infrascible, the bad news team says we're bad. And, unfortunately, the talking euscals always want us around, they want us on the borders, they want us on the floors, on the weak. We are condemned to raise our voices, to learn them every day, to work, and to live. Firstly, in this second round, I want to address the families who have to choose a language model. And I want to bring up a few words from my colleague Maddalen Iriarte who did in Bilbao in one of his first acts as a member of Euskal Herria Bildu. It would be 2016, more or less, when he said, when he invited people to study Basque. And I also want to invite those families, who also doubt in which model to enroll their son, or their daughter, or their daughter, I want to invite them to enroll in model D, in the model in Basque, because it will open them – and Maddalen Iriarte said – "a world full of possibilities, a world where they have infinite, incredible books and stories, full of wonderful songs and lyrics; in short, a world with a window of opportunity, modern, looking forward and opening the doors to the world, that of the Basque." Second, I'm going to direct the high school community. I also wish to say also to the schools of education, to the professors and professors of education and the professors of education, that they may continue in the same way as they have been before; for they are in the schools themselves, when the doors are shut up in the rooms, who have worked with dozens, and educated our scholars with eucatitude. So I'd like to deliver this second message to all the professionals in teaching. And thirdly, the leader of the Biltz Group. Our people and the laborers of education have left us a clear commission. It has already been said that we would have made two legislations of education, but we have not done it, and it is time for us to face the dispute and challenge of the law of education and to seize the hands. And in this law, we think, we have to have a standard of language, a pattern of divest and maintenance, of which the euphora eloquent students will be trained. There will be noise around us; there will be noise around us, as it is today, interesting political motives. But if, in favor of the eucalyptic and eucalyptic plunge and maintenance model, you will have the outstretched hand of the Basque People. Let's take advantage of that. And finally, in culture, literary work, and in the eulogy of the town of Esscal, I would like to remind you of the words of the familiar Joseba, our only free story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u150	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor mustn't speak. Eubertarians. Lady Arriega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u151	Thank you, Mr. President. With your permission, this way, I'll take it from the seat, very briefly. Gil jauna, I think we've tried to show you what the reality is here in Euskadi, in this country, but there's no deafer than anyone who doesn't want to hear. Freedom of choice exists. That freedom is exercised, that right has been exercised here in Euskadi for more than 28 years. It is a free and real will of Basque families, who mostly bet on choosing model D. You must assume it. It's a reality, even if I deny it. It's a reality. It's a reality. Y, simplemente, quisian terminar mi intervención de hoy, thanks to the translation service in this legislature. Because, thanks to him, we Basques, we can do our work every day, we can do our work with relief, and, really, they do a wonderful job. Really, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. After discussion, we'll put the original text of another proposal than the Basque Groups of Populara-Ciudadans. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 39; the votes given, 73; the supporters 7; the opponents are 66. Absence, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u153	So, not allowed original text. After that, we'll vote for the Miststo team's full-line correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 40; votes given, 74; in favour 1, 73; abstations, 0; white, 0.1,0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u154	So it's not accepted. And finally, together with Podemos-IU, EH Collect, Eukal Socialists, and Euzicobertians, we vote for the middle-line correction that the teams have signed. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 40; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 67; the opponents are 7; the abstainers are 0; white, 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-29.u155	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was six o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-seven.
