ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Please be quiet. I inform you, 13, 14, 15 points will be discussed at the end of the entire meeting. First point in theme list: "The question is, that Gorka Álvarez Martínez Eune, a member of the legislatures of the Society, and of the Prejudgations of the Elective Administration." Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief of departments and ladies, good morning. Euskadi has always been referative in regard to the digital administration, and has been mentioned several reports and institutions more than once. One of the latter is that of Ernesto & Young, known multinations in the district of judge advocate in 2019. And we must confess that digital administration has produced a change of paradigm, on the one hand in the manner in which public services are given, and on the other hand, in the conduct of public administrations, and that the principles of digital function have been established. So we have several Basque tools to contact the locals with the Administration. As for the rest, the website is specialized for popular requests, communications and communications to the people, we have also available my own digital folder tool, or even the delegation and the electronic register is available, in order not to mention more than that. However, despite being at the forefront of the Digital Administration, we believe that there is still a way to go, there is still room for improvement and we also believe, and we are aware, that the Basque Government will continue to strengthen its public policies around the Digital Administration and also in the interest of responding to the needs of Basque citizens in this area. One example of this is the recent campaign on digital governance. And together with this, and also with the response or assessment made by the users of these services, we would like to ask you, Mrs. Garamendi, how you and your Department look to the near future in the field of digital administration. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u2	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. To answer, Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u3	Mr. President, president, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning. Mr. Álvarez, in fact, the campaign you speak of, wants to approach the world of Digital Administration pleasantly to the people. This government wants to place light, safe, and reliable public services in the hands of society. Like my Folder, Health Folder or Euskadi. All this is a vocation to reduce the distance between public and public administration even more. The digital administration has come to stay. The data speak for themselves. In 2021 access to the Euskadi.eus portal increased by 22% over the same period of 2020. 63% access to the electronic headquarters. 88% of the Nire Karpeta service. To set some example. The use of these explanations therefore continues to rise. Digital services have become part of our daily lives. This is especially so because of the trust they transmit. They are not only agile and useful services, but they are also safe. Security is the main axis on which all digital services are rotated and must be rotated. In this sense, the work carried out in the field of digital identity through Izenpe is essential, with the issuance of certificates that allow processing with the Administration. The best known certificates on the citizen card, the Bak or the BakQ. In the year 2021, the number of digital identities issued has tripled. More than half of the population over the age of 16 already has a digital identity that enables them to perform secure online procedures. I would like to take this opportunity to inform you of the evolution that is taking place precisely in BakQ through the use of biometrics, a technology based on artificial intelligence. Today, in order to obtain a BakQ it is necessary to identify yourself in person. Well, in a few months, however, it will be possible to carry out this process without the need to travel thanks to biometrics. The process, in broad terms, is that through the camera of our mobile, tablet, computer, our biological features or physical characteristics will be measured and compared with the DNI. This will ensure that we are the holders of the document submitted. Currently Ejie has already tested this technology, and Izenpe is in its certification phase. All this is credible evidence that Euskadi is in a state of advanced maturity to live in a digital world. According to data from the Digital Economy and Society Index, we are above the EU average in terms of digital public services. And, in addition, we rank third among the leading countries in connectivity; more than 96%... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... as regards digital public services. And, in addition, we are third among the leading countries in connectivity; more than 96% of the population of Euskadi has access to ultra-fast broadband. But we do not wish to forget the persons who have the greatest difficulty in obtaining these services. For this collective, we allow access to new technology through the KZ center network. There, at the end of the year, we'll have 40,000 training over hours. Anyway, the email channel doesn't want to erase your attention from the previous or the telephone. It shows that this year the services were more than half a million people attended by these traditional ways. We're taking advantage of the quality model, the integral and multi-channel that guarantees universal access to all administration services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. Second point on the subject list: "The question is, I've been asked by the Congressman of Maddalen Irñena, the President of the Book of the Union, about the Faculty Prejugation of the Maddalens." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u5	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Urkullu, good morning. This week, your government has agreed to the budget for 2022 years, but this parliament doesn't yet know them, it's the press, we know a few headlines, we know a few figures. They'll come. We shall examine them in detail, because experience teaches us that even the initial balloons are often disappointed and withered when they are read by the minute letter, or, in this case, the detail of numbers. "The state demands that this budget has a lot of protection." These are the words of your government. The state, and the great challenges we have as a people, is what required of extensive agreements, of extensive political agreements, to answer for the matters of the strategic art of this country. We think it's important because it's an unprecedented moment to choose other answers. And this frame of budget, which is short of time, is perhaps too short, but may be effective and productive, for the fabrication of extensive political and future engagements, including budgets, if the will exists. We've made it at Navarro, and we've made important deals that can make the budget easier. That's what we're talking about in Madrid. Weeks, and, in some cases, we've been working on it for months. But, Mr. Urkullu, this isn't a nobedde. We can see it every day in Europe, even in the Spanish State, and you have descended to this discussion of the budgets of the Spanish Government. You joined, too. You have requested to keep transfers and all those around the high-speed train, so that your party does not reject the full correction. And they have nothing to do with the budget. But here, you're trying to convince us that in the conversation about the budgets, there can't be any such political agreement on the table that you can't talk about anything else that's strictly connected to the budgets. And the funk knows things aren't like that, and if it's will, if it's a real will, it's a chance to talk about what's coming back to the budget. And yes, the situation is demanded. And we'll take a lot of care about the budget's study, and we'll be willing to make the proposals, those big deals. It is your duty now to show that you have the will to obtain the political agreements which time demands, whether you are a government which takes the measure of time; and the political agreements which will be determined by the consent of the people to give an answer to future hinges. It's been a month since we've arranged and started to take political commitments. We live, I used to say in Basque to the lehendakari, at an extraordinary time, who will force us to face in the coming years challenges that are also extraordinary. This country needs a comprehensive political agreement that goes beyond the budget. An agreement that gives certainty to people, that marks our response to the enormous challenges we face as a society. And your government, Mr. Urkullu, must prove that it knows how to live up to what the circumstances require. It is able to open a dialogue that is not limited to moving three or four budget items. A sincere dialogue, which would enable us to address with seriousness and constructive spirit these great issues and those great challenges that I mentioned, among which, the budgets of 2022, will, of course, be a central element to debate. I hope that your response and your will will be positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u7	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. I don't know if I've talked about the Spanish budget, but I don't think so. But other things, yes, but I don't think I've talked about the budget. Anyway, when we talk about our budgets, even this year and next year, we have the priority of strengthening society policies and reviving the euscal economy. That, for a purpose: To restore all lost jobs and lower your unemployment rate by 10%. For that, we'll have the greatest budget in our history. 13.108 million euros. Even this year, because of the caudiation and powerful management, we've had a lot of budget to deal with the pandemia and its consequences. Today, the budget priors are clear. First of all, societies will have nearly 8 of 10 euros in this direction, especially: we have established health, education, and social protection. The health department, for instance, will have 4.352 million euros, that is, 168 million this year. [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... We've already given the order. The health department, for instance, will have 4.352 million euros, that is, 168 million more than this year. Obligation, health investments, social service, primary attention or vaccines will be the priority of investing. The Board of Education will be 3.235 million dollars, $17 million more than this year. Infantry service, between 0 and 3 years of education, new infrastructure, digitalization and professionals will be the price of priority. This year health or educational department has had a special covid program and will keep it for 2022, which is guaranteed to maintain the quality of the service. The second priority is to help you recover the economy and create a job. And for that, the public investment will increase 50 percent, and, for the first time, it will have 1,600 euros. At the same time, the public investment for research and development will almost increase 10 percent, because our purpose is to get the congregency of Europe as quickly as possible. These are the expense and investment priorities. Nevertheless, we will maintain the balance of the budget, and we will use all the financial sources, and the income will be larger, thanks to the growth of the Esscal economy, to the contribution of European funds and the increase of the deficiency determined at the Mistian Committee. From Tuesday, Mrs. Irart, we will present the budget project with precision. And, even if it's the majority, it's just... It's just... It's just... It's just... It's just... It's just... It's just... It's just... It's just... It's just... It's just... It's just... It's just... It's just... It's just... And we are prepared to examine and improve the budget. The Government's commitment, therefore, Mrs Iriarte, is firm in dealing realistically with a negotiation with opposition groups that want to do so. We are open to exploring and improving the current project. We will take advantage of the opportunity offered by the solvency of our public accounts and the temporary suspension of the tax rules of the European Union. This year and next we have more resources available to strengthen social policies and relaunch public investment. We will accelerate the technological and digital, energy and environmental, social and health transition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Not Mrs. Irriart, not the president, no. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the Basque Socialists, the members of the United States, of Tourism, commerce, and Kotsumo, of the second edition of the Eukadi Bono, of the Eukadian trader, and of the co-ordination of the organizations." Madame Corcue is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u9	Thank you, President, Lehendakari, advisers, advisers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning, good morning. You appeared in this Parliament a month and a half ago to report on the direct aid granted by your department in the phase of resistance to the pandemic. Aid which was to maintain economic activity and at the same time to maintain employment in the sectors most affected by this crisis in COVID-19, such as the hospitality, trade and tourism sector. At that appearance, in which you spoke of the aid of more than EUR 114 million and in which 3,700 businesses in Euskadi had been benefited by them, at that appearance you commented on the consumer bond lines as elements, important programmes both for the resistance phase and for the economic revival phase. And on 27 September, an order from his department was published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country regulating the second edition of the Euskadi Bono Denda and calling for such a programme. A programme for the reactivation of small local trade and which aims to stimulate consumption both in commercial establishments and in services related to urban commercial activity in Euskadi. This programme, which has the interinstitutional collaboration, the participation of Eudel and also with the support of the Euskadi trade sector itself, aims for an investment of 4,700,000 euros by his department to raise more than 460,000 bonds, which can be exchanged, consumer bonds that can be exchanged in these establishments or for those services related to urban commercial activity, and is intended to have an economic impact with these 4,700,000 euros of 14 million euros on economic activity. Therefore, an important programme, a programme that also seeks responsible, sustainable consumption, as well as support for small local trade. And this program presents a number of very interesting developments, because as for the age of the people who can acquire these bonds, it expands from the age of 16, also the number of bonds that can be exchanged for people increases, in the end, a number of circumstances, of innovations that poses this second edition of the program Euskadi Bondo Denda that we Basque socialists, and given the new economic situation that we seem to be beginning to travel through, we wanted to know the assessment made by the advisor of Tourism, Commerce and Consumers regarding this second edition of the Euskadi Bondo Denda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mr. Hurtado, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u11	Thank you, Madam President, on, good morning. Indeed, this Wednesday 27 began the second edition of the campaign to stimulate consumption Euskadi Bono Denda, after the success of the previous one, in which more than 496,000 bonds were exchanged. Well, after analyzing the results of the previous call, both internally in the department and in conjunction with the sector, we concluded the proper functioning and acceptance of the initiative, and therefore, from the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption, we launched a new campaign in which we decided to incorporate some new developments. The first of the decisions has been to increase the amount allocated from the department, precisely because of this good reception and appreciation of the sector. That's why we've increased the department's contribution from 3:00 to... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... decisions have been to increase the amount allocated from the department, precisely because of this good reception and appreciation of the sector. That is why we have increased the contribution of the department from 3 to 4.7 million euros. In addition, as on previous occasions, we have opened the programme to other institutions in collaboration with Eudel. While we are aware that some of them had already drawn their own bond calls. So far we have counted on the accession of municipalities such as VitoriaGasteiz, Hondarribi, Zumárraga, Arrasate and Legazpi, Erandio, Güeñes, Derio and Portugalete, whose contributions have added half a million more, up to a total of 5.1 million euros, which materialise in 500,000 bonds. The second of the innovations is to increase the number of bonds per person, from four to five, to give greater support to consumers. A third novelty is to lower the age of use of the bonus, from 18 to 16 years old, with the aim of stimulating the purchase in local commerce in a group more accustomed to the use of online commerce and attracting it towards this consumption of proximity. The fourth novelty, in response to the sector's requests, has been to open the Denda Bonus in two exchange times of the bonus, to prevent them from coinciding with the Christmas period. Until 5 December the bonds may be used in this first phase and the second period shall begin on 10 January and end on 31 March 2022. And the latest of the novelties is especially relevant because it directly affects the typology and number of establishments that will be able to use it. We have incorporated services related to urban commercial activity, such as hairdressing salons and beauty institutes, laundry and dry cleaners, photographic, photocopying and marking services, and repair facilities of different nature. Well, after two days since the start of the campaign of Euskadi Bono Denda, we can anticipate that this second edition is having a great welcome. First, for the shops, since they have joined around 4,500, which is 1,500 more than in the last call. And 43% of the affiliated businesses are related to fashion, textiles and footwear, which, as you know, are one of the most affected subsectors during the pandemic. And the second reason why we can conclude that the call is being successful is because of the response of the citizenry. Over the past two days more than 100,000 bonds have already been exchanged, i.e. 20% of the total. In short, this new call by Euskadi Bono Denda is born with new developments that seek to improve it: An increase in the allocation, 5.1 million euros for all of Euskadi, of which 4.7 is provided by the department. In addition, we have expanded the type of establishments that can join and we have more than 4,500 affiliated establishments, an increase of 55%. Each of the affiliated businesses will receive around 100 bonds, which can increase noticeably if some municipalities make their contributions and increase this amount. In just two days 100,000 of the 500,000 bonds put into circulation have been placed in place. So we can value this campaign start as a success. And we hope that it will have an economic impact of more than EUR 15 million. In short, we want these bonds to be an incentive to responsible consumption and an awareness-raising consumer, to look back at local trade and to give priority to the sustainability and drive of our economy. Bonuses that can help both traders and consumers and that can be used in this first phase until 5 December. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u12	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. Forth point on the theme list: "The question is, with Mia's hatery, the member of the Society of Podemos, made to the president for the law of General Presidency of the Eska Autonomy Estribe." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u13	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, President. As for the budget bill next year, we'll receive the copies that take up and consecrate your government budget today. Anyway, we already know a lot of data and headlines. And among them, you said the first time today that this line of 13,000 is over the expense, and that those who have had the budget will be the most anxious of all. But, to tell you the truth, this data is not entirely correct, it has its indentation. In September, however, that boundary of 13,000 had already been exceeded. Klaro, I show that when we said that the year before there was too little expense, and that it was true that it would cost more. This year, economic recovery, and you've mentioned it, though it's still weak, that's why it's allowed to have more attention. But what we see is the tendency of your government again seems to tend to presupuestarian balance. In fact, you've put a deficit of 0.9 on your head. And we believe this is going to make economic recovery more difficult because the economy incentives are breaking up from the public sector. Orduan, hau guzti hau horrella her, lambere Egyptian disudana deuxe da: zur Gobernuaren benetak asmoa da errekuperazio ekonomikoa ekarriko duen aurrekontu spantsiboak ezartzea? Does your Government really advocate an expansive and enabling budgetary framework that supports economic recovery? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. In answer, Mr President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatage, don't cheat in explanation. The budgets meet, they compare, not the tights and the budget, right? And, yes, yes, M. M.M. had a bet on the progressive budget that will help the economy and when it comes to work. I'll tell you it's the strongest bet we ever made. And even more, it won't be alone for 2021, I think it might be a wager for the whole decade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u17	Well, I'd like to insist that... in the idea that 600 million enlargement over the budget that came out of this House... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... Well, I'd like to insist that... in the idea that 600 million enlargement over the budget that came out of this House, based on empowerments, incorporations, remnants, etc., is not exactly a good practice. I believe that the expenditure budget would have to be fully or, of course, to a greater extent approved in this House. It is that at the time it was also to be expected that the greatest (...) economic of our recent history and with public services reaching the limit, that the agreed budget, in principle, would not be sufficient. And the truth is that now we are also concerned that such a thing may happen, because, of course, how compatible is it, for example, to think of the most expansive budget of our history with this news we know this week, also that 4,000 people, health professionals are going to lose their job, their job? It is certainly contradictory. There are other eye-catching data as well. It is striking that the increase in the final consumption of public administrations is forecast to be 3.4% by 2021. It is a modest increase when compared with the beat of 9.5% of GDP. Moreover, this increase is in nominal terms, because in real terms, once the CPI has been discounted, it turns out that this month has risen to 5.5%. We would, in fact, be talking about a reduction in public administration spending this year. Of course, this we believe hinders economic recovery. And if we talk about investments too, we are being talked about a significant increase in investments. But, of course, the last data we have, for example, on the implementation of the previous budget, are that they barely exceed 50%. So how much of what has not been implemented is expected in this increase in investments? I mean... And it is also that even with this historical increase in investment, we are below the 3.5% of GDP we invested before the 2008 crisis. Finally, it is good news that public investment is increasing, but we fear that it will still be insufficient. We believe that we have to deal properly with this budgetary process.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Look, Mrs. Hatsy, we encourage five columns to confirm our commitment, to confirm the commitment that presupposes our bet. One, resurrect; another, Euskakia, Tusct, Technology, News Plan, Basque Industry 4.0; and the Human Plane of Digitization and Tratal Transition, and the Mission of Suscanry. Our goal is to make the Escal economy with all the strength of a hundred modifications to the process. And it's not enough for pandermy to go back to their previous state. We have to transform our economy and development model to be more technological, we will continue to encourage investment for development and research, and next year we will increase public budget almost 10 percent. To be more green, we'll have the most amazing transitions and retractable energy, by default investments and programs. And to ensure social policies... 80% of the budget's targets. The country's objective, Mrs Gorrotxategi, for this parliamentary term, for the Basque Government, is to recover the existing employment rates before the pandemic and successfully tackle the process of transforming our economy. And this is only achieved with an expansive budget, such as the one we have sent to this House today or deposited in this House. Mrs Gorrotxategi, you also referred to deficit and debt. We use all available resources agreed with the Spanish Government, both for the financial year 2021 and for 2022, within the Joint Committee on Economic Concert. We have resources to transform our economic and development model in line with the 2030 Agenda. We must achieve a more technological, greener and more social economy. The budget is expansive in innovation of last (...). This is, in small businesses, in smart specialization in energy, advanced manufacturing, in health research. It is expansive in the energy transition to renewable energies, with projects such as the hydrogen corridor, solid state batteries or the Energy Intelligent Center. The budget is expansive in social policies and employment policies, such as a lever for integration and social balance in health and education, expansive in income-guarantee payments, social emergency aid, the fight against energy poverty that grows by 40%, expansion of housing, youth or equality policies. We offer an expansive budgetary framework for sustainable and fair growth, which contributes to the recovery and transformation of the economy, which contributes to the recovery of all lost jobs. Next week we will present the project in detail. We are ready to listen, to receive their contributions and, if they are within the principle of reality and our competences, to incorporate them in order to strengthen a key budget for the economic and social revival of Euskadi also in this decade. Our door is open, as it was last year, Mrs Gorrotxategi. There are no vetoes, no exclusions, no red lines. There is only a willingness to strengthen this key budget for the economic and social revival of Euskadi. We have time and we're willing. The door's open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "The question is, as Charles Iturgaz Angulo, a member of the Basque Popular Groups of Ciudads made to the president about the negotiations that are essential to the Basque Society." My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, good morning. Last week we attended a masquerade starring Otegi, you will remember, in which they ended up participating a good part of the forces of this House, and to which you were not alien. Otegi, once again denying his (...) as a man of peace, organized a performance in Aiete, addressing the victims of terrorism, appearing that ETA had been a natural phenomenon and not a criminal machine designed by perverse minds. Only the socialists – their partners, lehendakari – greeted such a statement, in which... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... a criminal machine designed by wicked minds. Only the socialists – their partners, lehendakari – greeted such a statement, in which what mattered to him was what was lacking; what neither Otegi nor Bildu have ever said, that is, the recognition that terrorism lacked any legitimation of the injustice of the damage caused and third, of ETA's condemnation. You yourself, lehendakari, accepted and described Otegi's words as insufficient. He demanded self-criticism and stressed the lack of significant developments. And also his party, the PNV, expressed itself in demanding terms, as we did other political forces. The cynicism of Otegi's statement became clear in a few hours, in Eibar. Otegi without mask, offering his true face, developed in a discarnate way the formula imprisoned for budgets, because in Bildu there is no intention to assume a minimum ethical in relation to ETA terrorism, and everything is opportunistic and everything is instrumental. Rinsing the curl, the mask ended with everyone together and in protest in San Sebastián with some Catalan nationalist of invited artist in favor of the prisoners of ETA, PNV included. By the way, lehendakari, as you know, and that is, the most absolute incoherence. Otegi just confirmed what we all know. But what is worrying is the weight given by the Basque Government to Bildu on fundamental issues, and the way in which those who do not condemn ETA are legitimized, which prevent this House from adopting a clear and clear statement in the face of terror and for the benefit of its victims, as happened last week. Let's be clear, let's leave the masks to others, there are fundamental issues in which your government's criterion is to prioritize agreements with Bildu, it seems, seems to be. For example, in the impulse of that new status that seeks to return us to a nineteenth century that never existed. We saw it in the last legislature that impulse, and there is no lack of evidence in this one. And on the other hand, the reform of education seems to also want to be done with Bildu's hand to give another twist to what is already a palmary failure, according to the very reports of his government of the Basque Government. That is why I ask you: will you maintain your criterion of prioritising negotiation with Bildu in matters that are key to the future of everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u22	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. I think it's 19, sir. that the century existed. I think it existed. Anyway, it's just that when I'm talking to the teams in the Legend, and I'm trying to find the agreements, it doesn't get a team over top of each other. In matters that are essential to the future of society, Mr. Iturgaz, it is our desire to promote and expand our bargains with what they please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u25	Of course, there was 19th and 14th, and the 1st before Christ. You were clear before Otegi's statement. Now we asked him for consistency. Bildu is what he is: a coalition that has arrived at legality by making instrumental use of it, but that still does not reach democracy, lehendakari, because that demands breaking up with his past. And the coherent thing, lehendakari, is to build the future in terms of tolerance and freedom, a country of all. And that is why it seems to us serious to leave the definition of our framework of coexistence as a democratic society in the hands of a party that does not condemn terrorism or break the criminal history of ETA. And on the other hand, the coherent thing, the wise thing is to ratify mistakes, lehendakari. That is why it also seems to us serious that the Education Act with which our children and grandchildren are formed has been filtered out, influenced, distorted by those who lack any ethical reference or democratic conviction in their political attachment. That is, for those who are also instrumental in the service of their own ends. As you yourself said, Bildu has not done – and that is his words – a reflection on the violence that caused the pain of the victims and of society. In line with this, lehendakari, we asked him, and asked him, to reflect on his alliances and priorities in negotiating issues that affect the future of all Basques. And that is why we asked this question from the People's-Citizens' Group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u26	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, it's not the first thing you've ever heard of, it's the majority, it's the will and the practice of each team. You and the Basque People didn't want to protect three important agreements. For example, the amount of measurement to handle COVID-19 pandemies in full pandemia to adapt 2020 budgets to human needs, or the budgets of 2021. You and EH have come together not to protect these deals. The government board has accepted the budget project for 2022. And the opposition teams, even the Popular Party, I'll give you my hand to open a negotiation, Mr. Iturbia. The more extensive the settlements are, the more useful we shall be to our whole society. The preference, therefore, Mr Iturgaiz, for reaching agreements is not defined by the government with an absolute majority, but by the parliamentary practice of each opposition group. If so, this practice shows us that on key issues such as the law for the management of the pandemic, I quote again, the adequacy of the 2020 budget to the pandemic or the 2021 budget, your group has joined EH Bildu's votes to oppose the Basque Government. Don't understand it as a criticism, it's a mere observation. And I think it's legitimate for them to do so. Those common positions of your group with EH Bildu have not prevented all groups, except EH Bildu, from signing up here on October 21, for example, or putting forward the following commitment here. And I quote: "We will work to promote a plural reflection in which it is clearly expressed that no argument can be invoked to minimize, justify..."... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... "We will work to promote a plural reflection in which it is clearly stated that no argument can be invoked to minimize, justify or legitimize ETA violence, or any other violation of human rights." We agree with this assessment, which is fundamental to the future of Basque society. And we will not dilute that position on the critical memory of the past. I would like to reiterate that in matters that are key to the future of Basque society, the Basque Government is open to dialogue, negotiation and agreement with parliamentary groups who so wish, without prioritizing preference criteria. For our part, we are also open to what you call voting coincidences. However, you will have to acknowledge that your repeated coincidence of vote with EH Bildu is very striking. In any case, the issues you cite, that is, self-government, education and coexistence, are key to the future of Euskadi. And our approach will continue to be to expand and strengthen the agreements. Budgets or twenty bills in this course are also key. These are issues on which we are going to work the coincidences. These are issues that will enable us to ascertain the real will to reach agreements by this Government, and also by opposition groups, including its own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Ask me, Amaia Martíne, the lawyer of the Mistho group, who was a member of the Greys, and who, before the tenth anniversary of his defeat, PSE had planned to make an expression on the part of the President's cabinet." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Tell me who you're dating and I'll tell you who you are. Not with whom you are born, but with whom you are peaceable. Mr Urkullu, your partner in government is not reliable, and by extension your government is not reliable either. And I'm going to explain myself briefly. Arnaldo Otegi dresses in American and shirt and tells us that he feels the pain of the victims, that the violence of ETA should never have occurred. Nothing credible, you also recognized it and avoided your euphoria and called for concrete actions. But the PSE applauded passionately, even qualifying the gesture of inflection; knowing that there was absolutely nothing about it. Aesthetic surgery to advance the whitening of a potential partner. It was Otegi himself who, already dressed more casually, took care of putting things in his place before his people. He explained to them that movements were needed to get prisoners out of prison and that they needed Sanchez two more years, or if possible six. The PSE followed his lead, before the Gernika tree applauding the redemption of the left abertzale and also ascribed the victory over ETA, thus obviating the citizenship, the law of parties, the judges, forces and security bodies of the state, which had so much to do with the disappearance of ETA. He begins to suspect that there is something between the PES and the coalition led by Otegi. Doubts also become certainties when EH Bildu blocks a statement by this Parliament against ETA violence. And finally, it reaches the climax of the hand of journalistic information detailing the whole plan. The talks between the left abertzale and his government partner to enter, among other things, to pave the way for possible pacts, in Madrid with Mr Sánchez and in the Basque Country to get you out of the government in the coming legislatures. Moreover, in the middle of the race the general secretariat of the PSE hears voices in favour of new alliances in which the PNV would not enter. Mr Urkullu, I understand that it is not a pleasure dish to share Government with those who know what they are willing to play at any time, what is dangerously approaching a political option that is far from being clean. I doubt it's easy to digest that your government partner is fooling with his main rival in the polls to evict you from the Lehendakaritza. All this leads me to ask you: what is the health of your governing society after knowing that your partner plays cross games and that he does so with political options that still honor ages and resist delegitimizing ETA violence? Do they maintain these apparent good relations or has something changed after they become indispensible if in the upcoming elections they confirm the possibility of new alliances? I would also ask you what you know about all this, what you knew about those PSE and Bildu talks to continue whitening the left abertzale, and thus continue paving the way for pacts here and there. Remember: Allow yourself to the wicked, and you will be one of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u30	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Martinez, tell me who you're dating and I'll tell you who you are. Mrs. Martinez, I don't know if you've betrayed the subconscious. Because Aiete's statement, according to what is the justification of your question, was October 18 and not July 18 as you wrote in your question. It's a lapsus I'm worried about, Mrs. Martinez. In any case, relations within the Governing Council enjoy good health. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u33	Thank you for your answer, Mr Urkullu, but surely if Vox had a cabinet as extensive as you have, we would certainly not make a single human mistake. Unfortunately, we don't have it. Having said that, the government pacts have their times, Mr Urkullu, and you are still on the honeymoon, with some friction, but still sharing interests. But sooner than later, the moments of the advisable separation, of the confrontation, of the disorder and the fight, as is usual, for the need to mark one's own profile. The government action will resent, and you will be forced to sail in troubled waters. I wouldn't put my hand in the fire by a government partner like yours, which doesn't mean I think the PNV is the best for this... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... you will be forced to sail in turbulent waters. I wouldn't put my hand in the fire by a government partner like yours, which doesn't mean I think the PNV is the best for this region; everything has to be said. For example, there, in Madrid, we have passed, you speak of anti-pandemic law, which many groups have not adopted. I am not going to let him tell me the same thing as the PP, because we have not approved it either, we voted as Bildu, but the difference is that we have brought him to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u34	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u35	Mrs Martinez, the question and the justification bear your signature. Don't you ask the questions? Yeah, really funny, yeah. July 18th wasn't funny at all, Mrs. Martinez. When discrepancies occur, the mechanisms of dialogue, the search for solutions and agreements, also within a coalition of government, and in our case in particular, work well. And the important thing about the relationship is the practical result. And the truth is that we continue to carry out the government program that we have for this legislature, Mrs Martínez; don't worry about what my durability as lehendakari can be like in this legislature. Mrs Martínez, your exaggerations correspond to the definition of this term of exaggeration, because they go beyond the limits of the true, the natural, the normal, the just, the desirable. In the face of exaggeration, I can show you objective facts. I can offer you three concrete proofs of the good health of the relations between the members of the Governing Council and the parliamentary groups that support us, also in the area that you mentioned today. First test, we're completing the program. Recent examples of the last month? We have approved the Udaberri 2024 Plan; the Gogora Institute's Strategic Plan for the next four years, with the launch of Aukerak, the Social Reintegration Agency. Second test: the declaration adopted on 19 October at the Governing Council, Mrs Martínez. This statement reflects the strong consensus on the significance of the tenth anniversary of the end of ETA violence. Its content is structured into three points: a look at the past in terms of the radical condemnation of the unreasonability of terrorist activity ETA; the 854 fatal victims and the thousands of wounded kidnapped, threatened, coerced or extortioned are a living reflection of that unreasonability. A look at the ten years since October 20, 2011. A look, also in positive terms, because we walk with determination and firm step in the right direction: the legal, institutional, social and moral recognition of the victims. The shared conviction that the future must have memory. And having regained, as a society, confidence in our own capabilities represents significant progress. And a look at the future. Hopeful and committed look. A future to continue to be built on the basis of a solid and shared corpus of ethical and democratic principles and values: the dignity of the person, the protection and effective guarantee of human rights, non-violence, respect, dialogue, pluralism or diversity. We all feel recognized in these principles and values. This was the statement of the entire Government. Third test. I mentioned earlier last Thursday's agreement in this Parliament, in which we reiterate our agreement on what we consider to be basic in terms of critical memory over the past. I reiterate that we owe ourselves to a programme, and that we are going to comply with it, because we share an essential ethical principle: there was and is no political reason that could nullify the dignity, integrity and right to life of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interregation, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, Esquilla Populara-Ciudadans' legal member of the first vice-president and security department, a professional border career." Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, Mr Lehendakari, Mr Erkoreka. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens' security is a fundamental element that ensures the coexistence in a democratic society of the free exercise of rights and freedoms by all. As you know, and as Mr Erkoreka also knows, despite the statements of his Department that, I would call them self-complacent, even sometimes triumphant, episodes affecting citizen security are growing worryingly. I focus today only on those that have happened, on those that have happened in the last few weeks. Homicide and various sexual assaults in September; two arrested for sexual assaults in Zarautz and Zumárraga; arrested for raping a woman in the parking lot of a nightclub in Erandio; one assault by a group of boys on one young woman here in Álava, in Vitoria; two arrested for robbery and assault; two men go to prison for sexually assaulting another in Florida; two dangerous Vizcaine gangs stealing weapons; a group of minors, who dock in less than two hours five boys in Artxanda. Today's: 97 moons and 5 trains out of service on the Bilbao-Orduña line. And yesterday, already, they assault a young man with the technique of the mataleon to steal his cell phone, here too, in Vitoria, next to the Artium, by a group. And now, the neighbours of Bilbao, yesterday, desperate, went out to the street to ask for more security. The conclusion is that we need, Mr Erkoreka, and I tell you with all sincerity, that the government is reacting. We need the government to react, to exercise its powers, that for that we have them in citizen security, and for that we need a highly motivated police force. It will agree with me that this free exercise of rights, which is absolutely fundamental in a democratic society, requires a well-endowed, well-organized, well-formed police force and, above all, a highly motivated force. These are three major areas, Mr Erkoreka, which I believe we can agree on here: media and organisation, training and motivation. I'm gonna do a little X-ray. Means and organization. The average citizen may not be conscious... I wasn't... that Ertzaintza doesn't... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ...and motivation. I'm gonna do a little X-ray. Means and organization. The average citizen is perhaps not aware, I was not aware, that the Ertzaintza has no anti-drug unit. The only maybe police station that has the capacity to process a tough, difficult case that has anything to do with this is the Bilbao police station. As for the material means, the mobile supplies, to give you an example, Mr Erkoreka, I believe that they need urgent renewal. You know that by removing in Bilbao and some other exception from some other police station, they have to go in cars, in patrol cars, or send directly to the mobile brigade when there is a..., when there is a matter of public order. At the moment we have 7,000 ertzainas, as you know, a little bit more, 7,040 I think, a thousand below what it should be, and the thousand missing you know that... are on the basic scale, that is, because the leadership positions are all covered, and you will tell me, and you are right, Mr. Gordillo, you are now forming a promotion, 500, 600 will come out, you will enter. Yeah, what happens is that then you well know that next year another 500 are going to retire again, so we're going to stay the same. The green patrol, the GAMA groups, has recently been suppressed here in Álava, and now we must turn directly to the group of eight people in Erandio, as you well know, who also work, logically, on office hours. I believe that as much as we try to deny the evidence the structure of our police, Mr Erkoreka, is not adequate. It is not adequate, the current system is based on territorialization, in the territories, and this makes us end up following the scheme of a municipal police. It's just that it's turned, they've turned Ertzaintza into a municipal police force. Municipal police have and are very competent and effective, but what is needed is to have a police like the Ertzaintza, well equipped, well trained and well motivated. Formation, the last OPE is judicialized, the last OPE is judicialized and that is what the majority unions have already warned you. This is already known, it can have a high cost in economic terms. And then there are many young people who are training at the academy and who are not going to get their place. This is already serious because of the frustration caused by insecurity, but it is that in addition, you are being trained in security techniques, you are being trained, you are teaching how Ertzaintza works internally, sharing, let's say, the insides of our security structure to people who are not going to end up integrating into Ertzaintza, with what that can suppose. There are no mandatory shooting practices in Ertzaintza, this also knows. Any juror vigilante has mandatory shooting practices and in the Ertzaintza there are no mandatory shooting practices. They'll end up coming to the Ministry of the Interior to help them. Forgive them, who have already done so, that the Ertzaintza has already resorted to the Ministry of the Interior to protect them in some case. Anyway, the academy this whole year hasn't done a single training course, which I know. I hope you'll correct me, but I don't think you've taken a single course. Don't tell me it's because of the covid, because these courses had already been planned. We're a green society, we're a green community, and I think you're a green government, right? Well, that commitment to the environment is certainly not reflected here, because since 2015 no course has been organized, no one is trained in the environment. The motivation, the strength of our police, Mr. Erkoreka, is very unmotivated. You've got the yurts happy. Majority unions demand solutions after the annulment of the OPE. The two unions, which account for 80% of the total, appeal to the Decree of the Professional Development System of Ertzaintza for the resignation of the head of Human Resources. Finally, 80% ultimately rejects the Decree on Professional Development. There are many pay differences. I don't want to get too involved in this either, because I understand that it is an issue that you have to value too, but listen, what I think is not to be received is that when there are joint operations the ERTZAINA that is called on a day that is free, because it is being paid 21 euros an hour or 24 euros an hour, when a local police officer is being paid up to 65 euros an hour, up to 65. This is why, because the municipal police that depend on the municipalities, follow the recommendations of Eudel, instead, in the case of our Police, because the truth is that the pay difference I think is quite large, but well, without going into this issue now. Decree 180/2001, the decree of 20 July this year regulating the Ertzaintza Professional Development System, is a decree that has achieved the practical union unity against it. Here they tell you, I read it in the press and analyzed the decree and I think they're very right. Certain factors are used that do not have an equitable alteration, but above all the criteria to be used are not justified, the professional performance, recruitment, training, qualification and then the involvement and commitment. And here there is a particularly worrying issue for security professionals and it is that if it turns out that there is an ertzaine that has a slight injury, a small slight injury, that can be a problem in the hand, whatever, that prevents it from handling the regulatory weapon, because it has to take a discharge, and then instead these casualties, then instead these casualties penalize it when it comes to going up from levels and when it comes to accessing also certain pay improvements. They will tell me, man, Mr. Gordillo, the decree has not come out, is that there is an annex at the end where it says that there are a number of diseases, already, but there they are not. And the usual diseases, the usual diseases of security professionals are not on that list. The usual nurses of the security professionals because they have a small injury in their hand and that could be recovered relatively soon, by the way, if the medical unit also worked differently. I believe, as I told you before, Mr Erkoreka, that I sincerely believe, and I sincerely say this from here, from the rostrum, I think that you should rectify and reform this decree before Justice takes away your reason and ends up making it much more complicated. Finally, an example of how human resources have been managed in the Ertzaintza, which is very sad, and a memory for those people. I still remember that group of seven mayors that the press named the seven magnificent Ares who made up the top leadership of the Ertzaintza during the term of Rodolfo Ares. I don't know if the socialists remember. These people, like all people, had their ideology, their personal preferences, their tastes, but they were first and foremost security professionals. And when Mr Ares called them to integrate the highest leadership of the Ertzaintza, they accepted responsibility, because they are security professionals and because they were aware of their role. What did you do when you returned to the government, when you led it again: you took them out of the way. They were sent to offices with virtually no functions away from any responsibility. There's only three left. Three great professionals who remain active, forgotten, separated, separated like a broken toy and who have in practice been sanctioned in a covert way. I thank you from here for your services and, above all, I send you my appreciation for your professionalism. Well, Mr Erkoreka, for this is the panorama and with this panorama I ask you today with a lot of interest and a lot of... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ...and above all I send you my recognition for your professionalism. Well, Mr Erkoreka, this is the picture. And with this panorama I ask you today with great interest and great concern and I ask you: what are the purposes of your department in relation to the development of the professional career of our dear police officer the Ertzaintza. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u38	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Gordillo, I have read with interest the written text of your inquiry and I have been able to see, in a first approach, that although in the introductory part you touch many, quite heterogeneous, keys, you talk about the legislative development of the Police Act, the annual regulatory plan, the motivation of the Ertzaintza, the episodes of the summer with attacks on the Ertzaintza and so on. Then, fortunately, in the part where you have to formulate exactly what is the focus of interest, puts much more emphasis on this focus of interest and speaks to us specifically, you ask me specifically about the purposes of the Government in relation to the development of the professional career of the Ertzaintza. This is therefore their focus of interest in this conflict. Today I have been able to see that, in his speech, he opens the fan again and incorporates not only the topics mentioned in the written text, but also other topics with affirmations that I would, in the end, have to answer or could object to many of them. I strongly deny your accusation that, from this department, the Department of Security, self-congratulations are being made or triumphant statements are being made regarding the management of this area or the security situation in Euskadi. At all, it is neither my style nor my vocation, at all, to make such statements. He tells me about the media of the organization, the motivation, the need to change the structure of the Ertzaintza from above. Tell me about the troops. I don't know if you're thinking of requesting an increase in Ertzaintza's strength on the Security Board, because the 8,000 of the staff are bilaterally agreed on on the Security Board and are subject. I do not know exactly what he is proposing, because he has made a succession of references all chained up, with no details on this, although with many corrections. He's talking about the OPE appealed. Finally, as many administrative acts are resorted to, without any kind of problem, and that is part of the game. He talks to me about shooting practices when every year, from EH Bildu, I get blamed in the budget because there are too many ammunition supplies. If there are no shooting practices, the ammunition where it is spent exactly. He tells me that the Ertzaintza wants to host the Ministry of the Interior when, as far as I know, there is a statement from a leader, from a union that has made a statement only once; he has not repeated it either, because I find it unlucky, but it is not the Ertzaintza that asks to benefit from the Ministry of the Interior. Finally, there are many topics that have touched on you that would surely require monographic interpellations on each of them. Therefore, I will focus on what seems to be the focus of your attention at this time: the professional development of Ertzaintza. The written text of the interpellation, the fact that he considered that the decree which has to deal with the regulation of the professional development of the Ertzaintza said in his interpellation, "that is part of this decree of the norms pending approval", caught my attention. Man, I am sure that this week you have made the relevant contrasts, you have made the necessary checks in this respect and you have realized that this decree is not among the norms pending approval, which was adopted on 20 July, three months ago, which was published in the Official Gazette of the Autonomous Community on 30 July, and that from then on we have been particularly diligent in providing content and in developing all the forecasts and contents of the decree, to the extent that, look at, the first revenues that are going to be experienced by the arthzainas and those who are in condition and who meet the requirements to be able to do so, are going to receive it on the November payroll. In the next year they will already receive the allocations corresponding to the valuation that has to do with the year 2019; and in the December payroll, the valuation of 2020. See to what extent we are being diligent, if we are printing a speed I believe that remarkable and important to this aspect, let's say, of the development of the Police Act. I do not mean that before the entry, at last, of the assumption of the responsibility of the Department of Safety by the team that I lead has not acted diligently. Because, despite the disadvantages of the pandemic – which paralyzed the country, paralyzed the administrations, paralyzed the universities – they took on many functions. Among other things, the consolidated text was carried out during that period, which was one of the mandates of the law, but a draft decree regulating professional development was also drawn up, because on 24 July 2020 a draft decree on this issue was already forwarded by the previous team to COJUA. It is therefore true that the law of the year 2019 said that regulatory developments would take place within one year. But it is no less true that within a year, man, so many things happened, probably unpredictable by the legislators in that month of June of the year 2019, which altered all the circumstances, subverted the work regime and performance of all sectors and all public and private spheres. And it was not going to be the Department of Security specifically, in relation to the Professional Development Decree, the only one that was not going to in any way accuse the incidences and effects of the pandemic, which, among other things, assumed that it was agreed on a basic rule to suspend and paralyze all administrative terms and deadlines in the processing of the relevant procedures. Well, said this, the system, as you well know, which is already approved, is in full development, rests on two phases and two periods. The phases are that of framing levels and of the annual evaluation; and the two periods are that of implementation, which ends in December of the year 2023, and then will come the ordinary, which begins from January 1 of the year 2024. We are now in the implantation period, because the norm is unfolding all its effects. The framework was convened on 2 August. Look, the decree was passed on 20 July, it was published on 30 July and on 2 August we already made the call. It was published on August 13 – these are the terms of the official bulletin – and already at this point there have been 7,278 requests, already processed, of which, in principle, 440 have been excluded that correspond to people who do not in principle meet the requirements, I insist, in order to be able to access the initial frame, because they do not... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... 440 have been excluded, which corresponds to people who do not, in principle, meet the requirements, I insist, in order to be able to access the initial frame, because most of these people do not meet the minimum of five years of age required to be able to access the professional career, although there may be exceptional assumptions that are excluded from this topic. And they are now being analysed in the allegations made by those who felt that they had to challenge them in this regard. 6,838 have been admitted. And they've overtaken the frame by 6.832. Only six people have been excluded. Only six people have been excluded from the framing process, probably because they are people with a long history of casualties, many casualties, which makes it impossible to comply with the barems contained in the norm itself or assumptions in which there are disciplinary files that, as you might imagine, the norm makes it difficult for those who have suffered or have disciplinary files in their curriculum to easily access the professional career. We are now in the process of making allegations. We are also carrying out the valuation of the first period, so that the valuations for 2019 will be met on the payroll already in November. Therefore, here, I insist, it has acted speedily. He's been acting fast. You say that the unions have almost unanimously opposed the agreement. Look, a union that's been defending itself from the very beginning. He appealed from the beginning, because he said that they were supporters of a radically different model of professional development and that, therefore, they could not share anything that was approved in this House on November 19, because I would like to recall that the foundations of that (...) professional were approved in the fifth amendment of the Police Act here, in this House, on June 19, 2019, sorry, on June 27, 2019. Therefore, there was a union that was excluded. Of the remaining three have participated in the intense negotiations for many months, first bilateral and then multilateral, which culminated, pardon, first bilateral and then already collective, because the unions that continued in the negotiations wanted to hold tables, and held up to six, during the months of April, May and June, all this culminated in a council of the Ertzaintza, which took place on 24 June... I remember, because it was St. John's Day. I remember perfectly. I was there. And the assessments of the unions, of those who voted yes and of those who did not vote yes, were all positive. They all appreciated the agreement reached. And there was the proposal made, and it is so recorded in the Minutes. Another thing is that, as we are in an electoral year, there are unions that, tactically, strategically, have an interest in being, let's say, in a critical position vis-à-vis the Government, because they will soon face electoral circumstances, in which each one of them sets his or her position with complete legitimacy. You tell me about the pay and the comparative framework of pay with other cops. Since I do not have time to intervene now and to clarify that particular, I will be able to do so in the second part, in the counter-reply, if I may. But I would only ask you not to easily incur allegations of discrimination, which, as you well know, is subject to the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, and it only occurs when there are differences of treatment that do not have an objective and reasonable basis. And I believe that here the differences of treatment that may exist, all of them have an objective and reasonable basis, because they are based on legislative agreements adopted in this House. I guess you won't question that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u40	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr Erkoreka, for your explanations, but the truth is you haven't cleared me up. Let's see if the counter-reply gets me a little deeper. On the interpellation in which, in fact, a decree that was already approved was listed as pending development, and that I understand that your team quickly realized... I realized in the end when I introduced her, but, look, I left her. And why did I leave her? Look, because the question I asked you... I asked him: how is the regulatory development of this law going? You answered me, "Look, here's a link where you can check it out." As of yesterday, yesterday, I enter that page, and the decree remains as pending development. But, man, you look at the official bulletin... Already, of course, you update your own website as well. I think this comes to both of us, to me, to be more careful, I don't tell you no, and to look with magnifying glass at the answer of your questions, and I believe that to you, to be able to update the web pages, that I believe they are fundamental today. Look, as far as I asked you in the interpellation, a well-motivated police officer is a well-paid police officer, of course, but a truly motivated police officer who has training, who has opportunities for promotion, who really has the possibility of professional and personal development. The structure we have prevents that from starting. You want an ertzaine to be an ertzaine for everything, the ertzaine for everything. I just don't... Besides, it's not, at all, efficient. There has to be a certain level of specialization. But it's just that I'm insisting again on some things that I've told you before. You said. "No, look, I hope that you will support the Security Board extended to more than 8,000 tortoises the troops." Man, it makes it very difficult for me, because if we have a margin of 8,000, and we are unable to fill that 8,000 quota, it makes it very difficult for me to argue that that number is still increasing. It makes it very complicated. Do your best to increase the number of in-service cash ertzains. Because, man, otherwise it's gonna be complicated. Look, with the project this one, with the decree of development of the professional career, that it is true that it has been pergenying already since 2015, we know it well. If we had to ask you, by way of a request for information, for a report from the COJUA, which you had out there, half guarded, which, man, was already putting some obstacles to that initial regulation that you have made. I haven't come so far to... I have given you a number of examples on the pay issue that I think are important. But it's just that you've, in the end, gotten into the mud. It says, "No, it's that pay differences would only be illegal, in this case, inappropriate when they have no objective and reasonable basis." I mean, in a joint Ertzaintza operation, Local Police, you tell me that the pay difference, in that case, has a very clear basis. Man, I don't think we should go that way. I am not telling you now that, from one day to another, that I could do so, by the way, establish a maximum equivalence in any complement that exists. But, man, I think this has to be checked out. And I do think we need to check it up. We have even more rules... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... By the way, set an equalization to the maximum as in any complement that exists. But, man, I think this has to be checked, and I do think it has to be checked up. We still have more rules to be adopted, Mr Erkoreka, and man, it would be good if when I go to prepare them, then, man, parliamentary groups also participate, right? How he wants to prepare them, how he wants to develop them. And, above all, man, you tell me about the unions, but, well, yes, all the unions, and then, there is one that yes, it is true that with you it usually agrees things, but it seems that it is not the majority union either. Come on, I've looked at trade union elections, you talk about trade union elections, which, of course, because there are trade union elections this year, because trade unions, logically, because they're starting to mobilize. Let's see when the union elections are called, because I think we should have more or less the scheduled date. And on the subject of union organization, Mr Erkoreka, I am convinced that you agree with me, fair play on the part of the institutions. If there is a union that can enter Arkaute, all unions must be able to enter Arkaute. If there is a union that can enter, all unions must be able to enter into the activity that, in that case, may be allowed to perform some of them. I just ended up like I started, Mr. Erkoreka. I think it is necessary to equip Ertzaintza well, I have given him examples, I have given him examples of the need for a better-dominated police, a more motivated police and a better-trained police. I have given you examples, I have given you facts, and what I am asking you as a Government, logically, is to give us answers, to give us answers and to take steps to correct these issues. Because security is so important that the rest of our rights depend on this first right being fulfilled. And it is a shame, Mr Erkoreka, because I believe that in terms of security our groups could have many points in common, but the truth is that I see how they treat Ertzaintza, and the truth is that I don't understand, the truth is that I don't understand why they treat Ertzaintza this way, I don't understand why they are trying to continue trying to make Ertzaintza a police force because it is practically equivalent to the municipal police force, that this is not bad in itself, but that there are already municipal police officers. We need a specialized police officer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u42	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Gordillo, in this totum revolutionum of questions chained up successively that address practically the whole range of possibilities of topics and subjects that can be addressed the whole of Ertzaintza, fruit without any doubt of some conversation that you have had with some relevant person of some union, legitimate thing and, of course, free, note, first of all, the observation that you make about the website not being updated. All right. You also note the observation that, man, to give of course three months after passing a rule that a certain one is part of the pending matters and that it must use that as a ground of reproach for an inquiry, is not to prepare it well of entry, is it not? He tells me we're turning Ertzaintza into some kind of local cop. I believe that it is simply an absurd, absurd appraisal that has no basis whatsoever, either by commission or by functions, by structure or by techniques, let's go, they are nothing more than in a series of common protocols in which, in fact, this shared platform has to exist; hence its basic training is shared from the year 2012, within an academy that now integrates the training of both types of police. He says he's betting on a more gifted, more motivated, more trained police. Man, this is a general desideratum. Of course, I as a basic consideration cannot disagree. If I will tell you one thing, look, in the negotiation process of the decree regulating the professional development of Ertzaintza we made a concrete proposal, one in the area of health, a very clear commitment in the area of health with annual budget increases in the provision for prevention services and a concrete one for training with concrete, detailed proposals for annual training packages for the coming years. The unions liked it, but finally, when signing it, it is known that the proximity of the elections worried some; only one formation joined this government proposal, which met the requirements of the union formations themselves. Of course we're looking for a trained and motivated police officer. You have asked me, among other things, a thousand things that happen here, the question of staffing. Look, the number of 8,000 personnel has been agreed upon at the Security Board for years now, at a time when police needs were clearly different because of the daily harassment of ETA, and an important group of personnel who were going to take care of the care services of the persecuted persons had to be included in that staff. Fortunately, this problem is no longer what it was, and therefore there could be objective reasons to reduce those numbers, and indeed the need to reduce those numbers was raised by the Central Government representation on a Security Board. And yet we have managed to keep them as they are. He says, "Yes, but for the 8,000 to exist, you have to get the academy going." Look, the academy is on its toes. We've been making calls ever since I took possession of 700 people, 700 ertzainas, to which they add, in this case it's going to be 150 local police, which puts us in 850. The maximum capacity of the academy to provide a normal formative activity is 1,000, which in this case will be close to the precautionary measure taken by a particular litigation judge in relation to one of the remedies raised. He talks to me about the resources raised in relation to the Decree of Professional Development of Ertzaintza, but, look, by chance, the decree must be so bad, so bad, so bad for those who have resorted to it, that none of them has requested the precautionary suspension, look, none. And, in fact, I have already told you that there are 7,000 applications, almost 100% of the staff that has immediately accepted the possibilities offered by the Decree. So bad must not be how they are trying to sell after making a positive assessment before the Board of Ertzaintza, before the Council of Ertzaintza because those who are now in electoral campaign, with all legitimacy, that this I am not going to(...). Therefore, it tells me one thing that I have not just understood, it tells me if a union can enter Arkaute, others can enter Arkaute as well. Look, the Arkaute access regime is exactly the same for all unions. It's not a police center but what it affects... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... in Arkaute, others can also enter Arkaute. Look, the Arkaute access regime is exactly the same for all unions. It is only a police centre where the police are strictly concerned with security; it is also an academic centre. Therefore, the access of trade unions is that of an academic centre, not that of a police centre. Police centres are all free to enter, but in an academic centre they are restricted or limited and always have to justify and reason for what reasons they want. I'm willing to talk to you about any subject. But narrow down the issues and we're going to approach them one by one, so they're affordable in a coherent and reasonable way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u44	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Jon Hernandez Hidalez, together with Podemos, a member of the Antice team of the House of Representative Presidents, and Chief of Security, concerning the conditions of the Collaboration of the SOS Deylacilla." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u45	Lehendakariorde jauna. We are ashamed of the ill-treatment that the Basque Government has been subjected to for years to women workers in such a fundamental and essential public service, in our view, as is SOS Deiak. We find it a shame how this Government has condemned a situation of job insecurity in relation to the work that is so important, fundamental, essential and I would say that it is vital that the workers of this public service, who are the ones who are responding to the calls for help, often vital, by the citizens with mileuristic wages, high days, with high shifts, which do not take turns, with a lack of a number of rights that have been claiming for a long time. And that is why we also find it a shame how this government has for a long time been ignoring the warnings, the calls for attention, the demands of women workers in a public service, in our opinion, as I say, absolutely essential for the citizenry. We believe that this is a product of the privatization policy of this government that prefers a first-class service such as this, a public service, to be managed through the private business model. The unfortunate situation that workers have long been reporting is a product of their policies. Now, in a short time, they're going to take out the next package, if we're not wrong. And the workers claim what this government is going to do to ensure decent working conditions. And that is our question: What are you willing to do to resolve this issue at once and that the workers who provide a public service of the highest order and absolutely necessary for the citizenry can have decent working conditions consistent with that important work they do?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u46	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u47	Mr Hernandez, allow me, first of all, to disregard the thick words that you have used to describe the actions of the Government and the conducts and behaviours of the Government, that is, that it is shameful, that it is... Anyway, I'm going to ignore that question. That I don't think I'll be allowed what you're allowed or tolerated. And I think they're out of place. Good. Having said that, look, your question suffers, first of all, from an error that lies in taking the part in the whole. Look, you're talking to me, and I've already reproduced, about SOS Deiak and Traffic templates to refer exclusively to people who handle emergency and traffic phone calls. That is, Emergencies and Traffic are much more, much more, than people who answer calls. They're not the staff, as you say. The whole staff. No, no. They're not the whole staff. They're a very concrete group. Secondly, they are not a part of the Department of Safety and Security, because they do not form, in strict law, even of the Department of Safety and Security. They are part of the staff of the company that has awarded the service. And that is not the result of the privatization of this government; that comes from time immemorial. It is not the process of privatization of this Government, as if it were a decision taken this year or the previous year by this Executive or by this Cabinet. And, in addition, the same situation has 99% of the equivalent services of all the autonomous communities, governed by all, right, left, up and down, by all. The same (formula?)). Secondly, this issue has already been brought to justice, as you are not hidden from it, surely you know it, and they did not achieve satisfactory results, they did not succeed in believing that there was an illegal transfer of workers. And, therefore, the situation continues as it has always been. It is not a decision of this Government. Secondly, you know, it is certainly not hidden from you, that the possibilities that a government has to alter the working conditions of a contracting company in a service are frankly limited. Especially when it comes to a company operating in a sector where there is a collective agreement at state level. And a convention that has been incorporating major improvements in recent times, such as stability, which is guaranteed through the subrogation of workers in companies in the event of a change in the contracting company. Having said that, look, four years ago the clauses were already worked on, to the extent possible under the legislation the clauses were already worked on, to help in some way improve the working conditions of persons working in the service. And now that we are working on the drafting of the specifications, there is still time for this because the contract ends in June of next year, because it is getting back to work, but, I insist, within what is legally possible and within the narrow margin that in this respect allows the Law on Contracts of... finally, of the Public Sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u48	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u49	Bai. Eskerrik asko, Erkoreka jauna. You don't answer the question. He tells me that within the law you will do what you can, but he does not say, and above all he does not tell the workers, how you plan to fix your situation and ensure that you have decent working conditions. They are the workers of SOS Deiak, which are indeed part of our emergency system. I think I've spoken perfectly and correctly. And you, too, know it. SOS Deiak workers provide an essential public service. For you privatization is only when a service that was previously given directly from the public administration is privatized. Not for my group. For my group, the maintenance of that system through the management of a private company is privatization, is to maintain in time a public service that is essential, that is not temporary, to maintain it through that model, for our group, of course, is a privatization model. And that's the policy you practice. Because you could practice another kind of politics. Because the functions that are given for this public service correspond to your department, it corresponds to your... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... You could practice another kind of policy, because the functions that are given for this public service belong to your department, to your department, and there is no reason for you to decide, beyond political, ideological, perfectly legitimate motivations, but that we do not share, for you to decide that this is the system, because the service is yours to give to you and it is you who decide to do it through private enterprise. And it is a model that also allows you this very thing that you have done here this morning, to shield yourself in the labor relations enterprise, private enterprise, to which you have decided that it is the one you have to manage with the workers, in order not to respond to what is your obligation, to ensure that workers who give a public service essential to citizenship have decent conditions and that through those dignified conditions the public service can be given in good conditions. That is why we think that her model has two important negative consequences for society: first, the precarious conditions in which women workers follow, and second, the constant degradation of this public service.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u50	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u51	Eskerrik asko, legebiltzarburu andrea. Well, you take me to the model debate. It doesn't tell me exactly what the model is, which autonomous community or which country you like. He never quotes me, because, of course, the reference countries, model for you, Cuba and so on, have nothing to do with the reception of emergency calls, nothing to do with it. But said this, look, we're... We have increased the basic budget for recruitment by 13% in the special conditions of implementation related to the subrogation of contracts and equality and conciliation we have put in some forecasts that we will see later if the rate of legality passes. In the field of specific cases of resolution we include any breach of the conditions of the collective agreement which is that of (?)Contact Center today, which is the first one that was in force. Thirdly, we are changing the weighting on technical supply, on economic supply, so that we can favour, not guarantee, as you say, the maintenance and improvement of working conditions. Measures are also being taken to prevent bids from being used or companies from making downward bids by pulling prices, there are some mechanisms that allow such things to be done and we are considering them and (?I'm getting it. I'm getting it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u52	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. 9th point on the subject list: "The question is, the legislatures of the Casanova Alonso of the EH Collectations of The Economics made to the Chief Economics of Economics, patience, and Environmental Department, the industrial use of the Lands of La Naval. Mr. Casanova is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u53	Yes, good morning to everyone. Good morning, chief physician. We're talking about La Naval again today. It's not a new topic, but I think new things can be talked about this. We're very critical about the management we're talking about. And we've said it over and over. We believe that the government has failed in this matter over and over in order to give La Naval a solution. You failed to find an investor. You failed to create a company to continue La Navali. In our opinion, you failed to make an alternative to the creditors' competition. And in the final stage of this competition, in not buying the lands, when it was a pagocha to acquire it and to secure manufactured use for these lands. We think you've talked a lot. And we think your margin to make mistakes has ended. This theme has reached the final stage. We've got to make a cirripede, make it an industrial activity, or a logistic site. And that's why we're worried. And we ask you frankly what your government has done, and what it is ready to do, if it is possible to cultivate the territory of La Naval, in order to maintain the fleet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u54	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs and congressmen, good morning to all of you. Mr. Casanova, as you say, we have often talked about this subject. And I think you're talking about the disappearance of a company like La Naval that's got two things mixed up in a way. For example, this company is historically important, it has its symbolism, but we also have to consider how it goes away, just like any company, because work and what activity is lost. And both must be considered without mixing together the one and the other, although in this case both are present. On the other hand, when I look for responsibilities, it looks like the company was crazy. And it's not like that. And everyone here has to take responsibility. And here were more responsibilities than one. And it's important to check out what kind of responsibility this company or someone else has disappeared, or when it fails, but why did it happen, what kind of management it was, what kind of funding was there, how did the contracts run? You'll have to look for personal responsibility, not just fun, because again I say, we're not stockholders, we weren't shares. So we had no direct responsibility. When we play with marked cards or take one side into account, it's a risk of getting mixed up or not telling things straight. So everyone here has their responsibility. And we're here right now. There's the owner of those soil. And the owner of those soil knows what he can do and what he can do, because it's very clear that, marked by the town halls, marked on the plan, we have to make a specific industrial activity. In this sense, then, there is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u57	Yes, Mrs. Tapia, no doubt there are others responsible, but today we're in a government control session. And that's why I mentioned the responsibilities. And I have not done so out of vendetta's spirit or by bringing back a debate here, but by explaining why Euskal Herria Bildu is not calm in the face of government management at this time, because we have precedents in which you have not fulfilled your task. Look, there are proposals on the table right now to resume industrial activity, shipbuilding activity in the shipyard. There are proposals on the table. There are companies interested. You have recently stirred up the sky and the earth with a staggering proposal that has generated a political fight for an investment in Azpeitia, and yet you are keeping a stupendous silence on this question of La Naval. I've only read him a few statements in which, among others... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ...investment in Azpeitia. However, it is keeping a stupendous silence on this question of the Naval. I have only read him a few statements, in which, among other things, he acknowledged that he was not fully aware of the plans of the Belgian company that was made with the land. To continue the great naval industry in this country, and to maintain the capacity to build large ships, it is essential to maintain those lands linked to that activity. These lands are irreplaceable and unrepeatable: because of their size; because of their location and their access to the ria, to the sea, and to enable shipbuilding; because of the equipment that is already installed in them, and also because it is installed in an area that needs industrial investment. If it is altered, if the ship building equipment, the steps, the cranes, the access to the sea, the ships are destroyed, this country will never again have the capacity to build large ships. And that will be an economic loss, and I would say that even cultural, of great importance. That is why we ask your government that, publicly, clearly and unquestionably, and insistently, I transfer the owners, the current owners of that land, which for this country is a strategic issue the maintenance of industrial activity in the lands of the former shipyard. Strategic. And that this government is going to put all the political and legal mechanisms that are in its hands to ensure the revival of industrial activity. Maximizing it, because it is true that the minimum is 51%, but you can get more. And naval activity, with the offers on the table, would be compatible with other options, also of an industrial nature, that could occupy another part of the land. There is a good plan; sometimes the problem is that no one wants to invest. There is a good plan, consistent with what should be a serious industrial policy. And I ask you, Mrs Tapia, that in other respects it is so ubiquitous communicative, that you also make things clear on this issue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u58	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Thank you. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u59	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. It turns out I haven't insisted enough, though I think I have. I believe that, from the point of view of the activity to be carried out in this area, as you said, minimum 51% industrial guaranteed. Secondly, in addition to that proposal that you have there, there is more than one proposal, both of a naval and other industrial nature, associated, for example, with offshore wind energy and other industrial activities. There are more than one and two projects; it is true. And we are in conversation with the contracting company right now, that its VGP, for those industrial companies to be considered. In the event that it is necessary for VGP itself, including the Government, to take part if it is necessary, all this is on the table. But, as I always tell you on these occasions, industrial activity is guaranteed, and that must also occur in this area of the left margin, where the Government has always made a bet that can be shown over the years and also on this occasion, well, we have to work discreetly at certain times, but always ensuring, yes, that this industrial activity takes place in that area. And as you say, strategic activity of the naval sector, yes. Important facilities, yes. There has to be a project, which looks like there is, and there has to be investors to be able to carry it forward. If all these premises are given, of course, the contracting company does not have any problems at the moment, and so it has transferred it to us, in which that activity continues. Therefore, we will work among all so that the left margin as a whole, and also the lands of La Naval, recover that industrial activity that existed. Recover, associated with the naval world but also with other industrial activities. And regain employment and quality of life for the citizenry of the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, in the popular team of the Carmelo Bario Barroja Barrocals-Ciudadanians to the head of economics, patience, and environmental department, after the 21st Barkatory Conference of October 2021 in the future industrial policy (NPB) the state of the strategic plan. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u61	Yeah. Thank you, Madam President, Madam Counsellor. Well, continuing with the questions about the common agricultural policy and the Strategic Plan, it is difficult in the media to obtain information, and, logically, we want to know. It is an absolutely vital plan for much of our economy, the next common agricultural policy and the Spanish Strategic Plan where you are working. And we would like to know the evolution of your position. We have had the opportunity to ask you in May, and then also to ask three oral questions on this issue, and we have seen an evolution in your position, from a critical position to a favourable position. And, in this sense, continuing to know how the negotiations are, at the meeting of the Sectoral Conference of Agriculture last 21 October, which was telematics, was also the fundamental object of the new CAP and the Strategic Plan of Spain, in addition to the distribution of 140 million euros for environmental sustainability and funds, etc., to the agricultural and livestock sector. We do, in that sense, of the Strategic Plan and of the CAP, but the minister seems to have already announced agreements, you will say whether they have occurred, agreements already definitive in relation to some extremes. He spoke of agreements, in his press release, on the first pillar. That's right, the press release, the bulk of the cases are closed, as far as direct aid is concerned, and... But, on the other hand, it seems that there is no complete agreement. In that sense, everything indicates your agreement, Mrs Tapia. And I ask you what your position was, how the Basque Government valued the draft strategic plan proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture at the Sectoral Conference. And well, and let him tell us, let him tell us what's really going on, right, because it seems that the date is approaching to deliver that plan to Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u62	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u63	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, as I was telling you on the last occasion, Mr Barrio, you have been working on each of the extremes, which later, if I have time, I will comment on. Positions have been approaching, and one of the main elements in the first pillar in which we were working all the communities in the cornice was the issue of the eco-schemes, which we trusted – you remember I told you we trusted – that those verbal agreements would later be translated into documentation. Well, today I have to tell you that practically the entire first pillar is already closed and agreed. There is one issue left in redistributive payments to agree on the corresponding instalments. But, basically, we could give... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... I have to tell you today that virtually the whole of the first pillar is already closed and agreed. There is one issue left in redistributive payments to agree on the corresponding tranches, but we could almost give up and agree on the first pillar. And I have to say that, well, I believe that intensive work has been done to ensure that the interests of Euskadi's agriculture and livestock are well represented. And at the moment it is being completed or advanced quite in the work on the second pillar. Today it was precisely the last day to send some of the modifications, suggestions, contributions that we had from the autonomous communities, and we hope that during this month of November, the first fortnight, we can also have closed the second pillar so that it can go to public exhibition and it can be negotiated by the already Ministry in the European Union.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Barrio.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u65	Yeah. Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. I would like it to continue on the next round, because I believe that there are important elements and you have now highlighted the second pillar, that of rural development. We have a bill on this issue on the table, and I would like to know what agreements have been reached in this area, because it is certainly important. And in that we do see that he is still more stuck than other issues. Well, the echo-schemes have been shut down. On the part of the Ministry, it seems that there are still some things to be resolved. This is the subject of the agronomic regions. That issue is closed. This is the subject of the agro-ecological regions, the eight agro-ecological regions. That issue is closed. And then, one of the questions that has come up on the table, which is the consultation, the public exhibition that is going to be made, what timetable of action will be in this matter, because... and who are going to participate or who are these called to participate in that consultation. And what document, when will that document be definitively made. And I don't know what procedure they're going to have: are they going to vote on it at the Inter-Territorial Council? Is there a procedure? Because there is one issue that you would like me to comment on, which is the contact that you have had with professional organizations in the sector, the Basque professional organizations in agriculture, livestock, in the rural sector. I don't know, what do you perceive. Because we perceive anxiety. It is true that the autonomous communities and the regions are different and that the agricultural and livestock concept in Spain is different. But, in any case, there is also great concern in Basque professional organisations. We see it. We see it in your publications, we see it in your contacts. In that sense, what they transmit to you, because I think it is important to know how the heart of the sector is beating. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u66	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u67	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Barrio, I'll try to answer all the questions you've asked me. I don't think it's gonna give me time. Well, in relation to the first pillar, I told him that everything was closed; although there was an intense debate on issues of agronomic regions, whether it was important professional agriculture, professional farmer. In that case, our farmers are concerned, they would have wanted a much more dedicated definition of the sector. It couldn't have been like that. However, the first pillar will be able to be closed and agreed even though there was an intense debate at the last sectoral conference. As far as the second pillar is concerned, we do have three specific aspects on which we would like to focus. Firstly, the proposed allocation of EAFRD funds. That's where we think we can... many more can be allocated to us. At this time, approximately 82 million are considered; we can access 120 million. We understand, because we have capacity in the previous programming period, we have justified up to 300, more than 350 million euros. Therefore, we believe that with the volume of actions and execution we can access more. That is an intense point of discussion with the Ministry. With regard to the incorporation of young people into the sector, there is a specific request that the interpretation of head of operation be made more flexible for those young people who may also be working in legal forms as cooperatives, which had not been considered and we are very interested that this be done. And finally, that the system of control of aid, since there is the principle of subsidiarity and of what they call in Europe the New Delivery Model, that we can work it out, control it, of course, from the autonomous communities themselves, that this mechanism can be carried out from the autonomous communities themselves. These are the three main points on which we are working from Euskadi. But I also have to tell you that you're way ahead of schedule. The work with the whole sector has been done throughout this time. It's not just now. We will inform you of the status of the negotiations and where the main problems can be found. As for the first pillar, I told you the previous time, there are topics we would have liked to have stayed in another way. However, we consider that they have not remained excessively... they are harmful to our sector. For example, in the agronomic regions we would have liked to have one for the autonomous community. However, we understand that the Ministry also has to take care of the entire State, and that there is a special area for the watering area in Álava, as we also considered it to be positive. So, well, I think the first pillar within all the demands that existed is fine.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. It's over. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the Aeronautic Groups of Esquilly-Ciudadans made by the head of Economical Economics and Environmental Division, the state of the aeronautic Sectors received in Euskadia, in the Aeronautic Program. " Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Counselor. The Euskadi Next 2021-26 recovery and resilience programme, in its first edition of December 2020, did not collect any projects relating to the aeronautical sector, despite being one of the great ones damaged by the covid crisis. It is a subject that we have been discussing in this forum for quite a few times. In the review of the program, however, on July 18, 2021, we were pleased to receive, despite a manifest lack of detail and concreteness, but we saw that there were four projects that had been included within the (...) state relating to the aerospace industry. And that filled us with illusion. However, last week we returned to the depression, noting, through the press file of the Governing Council of 19 October, that in addition to the lack of debate and precise information on the criteria that have been used for the selection of the projects, we... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... of 19 October which, in addition to the lack of debate and precise information on the criteria used for the selection of projects, were re-excluded from the aeronautical sector and returned to the situation of departure. That is why I am obliged to ask you again today, Madam Counsellor, since none of the above-mentioned projects in the aeronautical sector has been selected from among the three that have been referred to the Government of Spain, why have they been re-excluded, why has the Basque aeronautical sector been re-excluded from aid from the Next Funds, being one of the most affected by the crises of COVID-19?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u70	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u71	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Gil, first and foremost, I must tell you that more than once Mr. Sub-Azu has explained how the procedure has been in this Chamber, and that the last Wednesday was the way the proceedings are and where the negotiations are going. And on the other hand, I must refute what you have said as a maxim. No, we didn't take the aeronautic sector away from the random projects, nobody took them away. They're still in the Euskadi Next Projects.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u73	I suppose they're still there, but they don't appear among the three who have appeared as selected. Of course, I really appreciate the information you give me. But you know how this sector is doing. We have said that it is one of the most affected by the crisis of the covid and of those who have received the least aid. But it is that, without having overcome this crisis, the crisis of the COVID-19, the sector is being attacked, let us say, by a second major crisis, the crisis of raw materials, which are reducing their trade margins and deepening the losses that were still dragging through the COVID-19. It is suffering, this sector, crisis over crisis. And they're suffering alone. And I would say that abandoned by the Basque Government, that he is neither expected nor expected. I was hoping that you would tell me about the airfield, which, in fact, could be a solution. But what your Government has shown on this issue is a major lack of involvement. We say this because in May, at a meeting between the Ministry of Industry and the council that you run, we knew that the Basque Government intended to co-operate with the fund. But since then we haven't had any more news. We have also seen how the Basque Government washed its hands in the labour dispute of the ITP subsidiary in Barakaldo, PCB. He didn't do anything. And, as the workers explained to us a couple of weeks ago, here, in this very Parliament, there are still workers at home waiting for a solution. And this same attitude, which is a constant, this same lack of involvement, we see in the insufficient support of the HAZITEK programme, which in the competitive module of 2020 gave only 1.2% of the funds to companies associated with HEGAN. In the strategy, in the strategy, aeronautical aid did not exceed 15% of the funds. The sale of ITP, for example, has shown that the Basque Government's sole claim is not to maintain industrial projects, but to secure its quota on the Board of Directors. The situation of ELKARTEK aid is even worse for the aeronautical sector, since in 2020, of the 38 million budget of the programme, only one was aeronautical. And this data you gave me in a parliamentary response. And now we find the bad news, I repeat, that this sector has been excluded, we believe, from the Next funds. If you think you haven't been excluded, I'd appreciate it if you could explain this to me. But, beyond the words, Madam Counsellor, the facts show clearly what your attitude is on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u74	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u75	Mr Gil, you have intended to make a totum revolution with the aeronautical sector. And really, no one believes what you're doing. Let's be clear. First and foremost, Next aids. Mr Azpiazu explained this to him, but I repeat. Firstly, these funds come through various mechanisms, territorialized aid for a series of actions that are considered at sectoral conferences. Two, calls that go out in the ministries quite usual or that come to add to usual aspects, to which any company in competitive competition comes. Three, PERTE, the famous PERTE, of which the Council of Ministers approved only one in July of this year, and refers to the automotive, automotive, electric and connected sector, which has not yet, by the way, come to public notice. There's no one else. And, fourthly, the letter he sends us, sent by Minister Calviño to the lehendakari, asking him for three projects, of which we realized which had been chosen. More than projects, important areas which, on the one hand, welcomed or were in line with what Europe wanted with the Next funds, what it wanted. And secondly, it is in line with the main transitions and our RIS, that is, our intelligent specialization. Those were the reasons. Secondly, the sector has suffered a crisis and says it has had less aid. Why have you had less help? What are the aid mechanisms? Aid mechanisms are always in competition. It therefore has the same opportunities as any other sector. The problems of energy, materials, raw materials, of any type of component are exactly the same in the aeronautical sector as in any other sector. Therefore, it is not that it is especially damaged. It is exactly the same as any other type of industrial sector. HAZITEK, ELKARTEK, competitive competition. The better the projects, the more funds they receive. And they don't go to one sector or another. They're in competitive competition, and you know it perfectly well. Therefore, projects that are adequate, that are well qualified and that have the capacity to develop are financed, in this sector and in any other sector. But the HAZITEK and ELKARTEK do not go by sectors. They're in competitive competition, as you well know. Airfield. At that meeting at which the representative of the Basque Government was present, of course, the Government made available the resources of the Basque Government to participate in that airfield. And you've only counted that part. He didn't count the next one. And it is in that, on the part of the ministry, we are transmitted: "No need". There is no need for the Basque Government to make those resources available. Therefore, in the first instance we do not participate, because they do not allow us to participate. However, a second phase has been reopened, in which we have made our resources available again, and it seems that we will be able to participate. We'll see if he moves into reality. But we are not going to change any position on the aeronautical sector, because we believe we are close and because we are working on it. And, of course, all those projects that are present in Euskadi Next are still present. The fact that of the three projects that were sent to Minister Calviño, there are no more than a thousand and peak projects that are in the Euskadi Next document does not mean that they remain out. There's still a lot of calls left... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... to Minister Calviño, there are no more than a thousand and peak projects that are in the Euskadi Next document does not mean that they remain out. There are still many calls and many ways to work so that they can be brought to reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 16th point in the theme list: "Interpodate, Ubeka Ubera Aranz and EH Collectors to the head of the Medical Department on the new administrative offer of Osa. " Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u77	Good morning, everyone. Mrs. apple, good morning. When we found out that they were negotiating on the literary board of the Osectorials, the new offer with the unions, we thought we'd have to ask the medical department whether it's gonna include the correct size of the new job offers. For at his own moment he had engaged the medical department that he would introduce direct measurements to the new job offers. But when we asked what these direct measurements would be at that time, we were told that every OPE would be negotiated, and that the correct measures would be inserted. So, to begin with, when we saw that answer, we stopped a little dislocated, and so we expressed it in his time, and it made us think that the Osacombs and the Medical Department would try to keep the impostor model for that time. Perhaps we're wrong, and today I'd appreciate it if you'd give me a direct direction. But what we have just seen is that it has recently been confirmed in the last sectorial table of the Osacists, which has been left outside the IVAP OPE, and outside the examination function is to prepare the examination of the jury again. So we go back to U.S.A.S.S.C., from that to 2016-7-OPE, and the members of the Climb Committee. Remember, there's 20 hits, but it's true that the mistake is on the basis, Osarides, because the Medical Department doesn't want to acknowledge that there's been a fraud. You do it strictly, and besides, this normality is fiction. At the time of his life, in 2016-2010 OPE, in the OPE of the Phactatives, the incorporation of the IVAPs was sold to us as a guarantee of transparency. It was a tremendous echo that the revolution would be an incorruption of IVAP. And it is true that the case has been revealed by the incorporation of IVAPs in the OPE of the Phactulatives. But if the first IVAP was a proof of transparency, why now does the competition of 2006 want to return? And you want to continue the same way, and the jury have to prepare the test. Osakidetzak dokumentu batan, liburu batan, jaso zituen bost eremutan bilduta 37 neurri, edo éta Jiménez Asensiok aurkezturiko 68 neurriak ditugu, edo éta Arartekoak ere ber txostena egin zuen propusamenekin, IVAPek ere egin zuen txostena. Eta gogoratu nahi dugu bai Osasun Sailak jasoriko neurrietan, bai Jiménez Asensio edota Arartekoak jasotako hainbat neurrik bat Egypt zutela neurri batzuetan behintzat. Adibidez: "A code of conduct will be adopted that will include ethical obligations, values that inform selective processes, rights and obligations as members of the courts, as well as rules of enforcement. The members of the courts shall also sign an ethical commitment." Hori zen, it was one of the measurements. To that extent, on page 71, it says: "The drafting of these obligations and standards of conduct will be entrusted to the VATP". It also says: "The application of this measure is immediate". Measure 21, on the training of members of the courts, a measure taken by all. And it specifies that it will be organized and directed... Sorry, organized and directed by the VATP. Measure 25: "Instruct the VATP to produce the theoretical tests in test format". Measure 26: "that the preparation of practical tests is not entrusted to a single person". This measure also has the character of immediate implementation. Or measure 20, on the professionalization and specialization of members of the courts. To this extent, different conclusions were drawn to be applied. I can continue to report different measures, but, well, I don't have that much time for it. But different measures were introduced with immediate implementation. And now all the measurements will be left side by side? The question is: why is it not going to be fulfilled, are not the commitments made immediately by Osakidetza going to be fulfilled? Why is it being taken away from the VATP or perhaps the VATP has given up its participation? Why? Because you've felt used, you've felt instrumentalized? Why wasn't he given enough time in his day to prepare the exams, and now you don't want to give him time for it either? It should be remembered that he was brought with him in his day that the list of the professionals who should prepare the exams gave him Osakidetza. What's the reason for getting rid of the new IVAP OPE? Why the IVAP is responsible for all the OPEs in the Administration, but not for the Osarists? Membership is an exception. On the other hand, it is taken up in several measures, and I have just mentioned, in a certain measure, to correct the examination in order to be as objective as possible, to be theoretical as a test. But, as the unions tell us, there's no such planning at the Osar table. And we would also like to know why. Even so, OPE will begin to co-operate with the Phactulatives. He'll make a call in November, and it'll be April and May, and the other exams will be called on April May, and the next November they'll be doing it. Shouldn't it be reversed that the problem is in the OPE of the factors? That everything is left, and above all, we need the correct measures and the time to do so? We have certain doubts, concerns, because it is not determined what measures are to be corrected, and besides, it is also the work of composing direct measures.... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... for it is not determined what measures of correcting must be determined, and besides, the preparations of the correct measures are also apparent because they have not yet begun. He worries us because it's not all defined. In addition, we also see that the degrees which are still new in the OPE are not considered, and are received in a very general manner, which may cause trouble. For the time being, he has not brought any trouble here, but in several communities, for example, bionomy, the new gratuity. We've got new degrees looking at the future that are of tremendous importance, but we don't get them in the new OPEs. And I think we should get ready for Osamate to come to the future. Or, you see, the formation of the leaders of the ambulances will not be taken into account, and they are, in themselves, confessed and seen that you will not confess them. Besides, there is a king who receives a decree that the guides of the ambulances must be technicians, which must be formed. And it won't count on that either. Actually, we have a lot of questions and concerns about new OPEs. 2016-2010 is in the OPE courts, and it looks like it's going to be a long time. In the legislature before, there was no will to work around the legislature for correct measures, to obtain consents, and it seems that with the unions there is also difficulty in doing so, and that the co-operative co-operation remains still in its keeping. So, Mrs. Odui, I'd appreciate today that you'd be able to get an explanation about the new OPE, and, above all, to determine what correct measures you're going to take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u79	Mr. President of the Parliament, members of the legislature, chief department, good day. Mrs. Ubera, you plan to address me directly and quickly to the subject, the Medical Department and Osacence are already applied at the end of the previous legislation, and the measures which the chief health department of two years ago introduced in the medical committee. Now the measures which are to be determined for each call, are as follows in all procedures. We've already started this mission with the union representative of the Osacial Council, and all the agreements we've received must be fulfilled, as well as those which are now due to the agreements of the workers. ) So the terms for the next public offers are still in the negotiation, and the others are bargaining about how the jury will do their work and how examinations will be done. So it's too early to rate the latest outcome of this process. We have fulfilled the commitments made two years ago by the Department of Health to Parliament to report on the new model of selective processes and to guarantee to all aspiring people working in Osakidetza that their right to equal opportunities will be respected. That new model, as explained by the previous Health Advisor, is not the model of Osakidetza, nor that of the Department of Health; it is the model resulting from the collaboration between different actors and from numerous meetings, debates, contributions and reflections. Contributions such as the one you mentioned from Professor Jiménez Asensio, who met at the Health Commission, and other professionals from the University of the Basque Country/Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea, of Ararteko through an intervention of their own in relation to the aforementioned OPE of 2016-2017 of Osakidetza. Contributions from political agents, trade unions, medical schools, VATP. I remind you of what they were, and in short, general features and commitments. One progressive implementation. To renew the stability of employment, to answer the challenge of the generation-revolution, and to draw new talents. Three, refined characters, i.e., are considered by four different groups of professions with different characters. And four is an open pattern, in which new measures will be taken, and others, by agreements, by technology progress, and the experience obtained. Again, the new contributions that are received and agreed will still be established. Specific commitments to the courts are the reduction in the number of members; the composition of the courts chooses by lot; the adoption of a code of conduct that incorporates ethical obligations as well as the rights and obligations of its members; and the incorporation of a training programme for persons who are members of the courts. With regard to the composition of the courts, in addition to choosing them by lot, the conditions for more persons to enter the lot have been changed. In particular, the number of years required to have a place of ownership to be a member of the courts has been reduced to three years. And the most important commitments in relation to examinations to ensure the transparency of the process, we recall: to provide court members with an operational manual for the preparation and correction of evidence. Work is already under way on its elaboration. Instruct IVAP to develop the theoretical tests in test format. That was our intention. That's how we moved it, but VATP has moved the technical impossibility of taking on that task. Then we haven't let go of the VATP, nor are we going to. VATP has stated that it is not possible to produce the examinations, but it will continue to participate in the courts and contribute to the proper development of the process with all guarantees. [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... the examinations, but will continue to participate in the courts and contribute to the proper development of the process with all guarantees. That said, Osakidetza's proposal is that each court determined whether it assumes responsibility for the preparation of the evidence or whether it fits that task with an external body with experience and knowledge in this area. This fact does not change the commitment made by Osakidetza to convene a job offer with complete transparency and the maximum guarantees for the candidates. We cannot forget the definitions and indications that were made in the contributions and studies that you and I have both mentioned, which indicated what the task of the courts should be. Provision is also made for the preparation of practical parts that are not entrusted to a single person, with the aim of preventing a single person from being aware of the final content. It is also a matter for the court to decide. In addition, the introduction of a random element in the final completion of the tests, in order to ensure that no one involved in the selection process can be aware of the final content of the test. Obviously, the courts are sovereign in carrying out the evidence, they must then carry out these measures. It was the principal object, and is, that the process of election for Osar should be as firm as possible to select professionals, and to attract talent by filling up the following principles: equality, merit, capacity, objectivity, impartiality, transparency, lightness, and trust. All the complicated agents will give us the means of making our own choice, which will enable us to act with confidence and confidence in future elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u81	Ms. apple, you mentioned that the chief physician introduced a new pattern here, and it's not like that. You know it's not like that. What was done here was: The medical department introduced several measures, and of Jiménez Asensius introduced others, and IVAP introduced others, and the Arlias. And that's what you said here yourself. Then according to OPE, every moment will be agreed, and we will decide which measures will be taken as correct. So we don't have a model. We don't have a pattern. So far, from 2016-2010 OPE, other OPEs were made, and they were very small, and a couple of things came in, but now the fat man is coming. Now the fat man is coming, and he's a nerd OPE. And you know there's a lot of conflict in it, a lot of excitement, and all the unions got up from the table. That the merit of equality, the transparency of which you have mentioned, had appeared very angry, because they were not guaranteed to the planning. Because they weren't guaranteed. You told me you didn't leave IVAP out. That IVAP said he couldn't take test tests. Why can't he do it if he can do it all the time? I'll tell you why: We have been informed of the preceding OPE, 2016-7 OPEn, in order to prepare the study of IV.P. He asked for more time. Membership shortened the time. Then what happened? Well, his colleague Osabaz gave him the list of what they were going to do. I am sure, then, that if we give IVAP to him the conditions he needs, as he does in the other administration, he will be able to do so. And here, as long as the courts are on their way here, both in the Parliament and in the Government, and especially in the Government, because here in the legislature it is true that there is no such thing as... And it doesn't look like it, does it?... but we shall try here, here, to work, to agree, and to meet these corrective measures. And not only here, but here we must meet at the negotiation table. They must be arranged at the negotiation table, no doubt. And that's why we have to change the Osacy's access process. And you said: this is also the fundamental policy of restraint. And we should also change the policy of contracting. And you know there's a great conflict, and even about that, the negotiations that are being made on the sactorial table, it's obvious that there are great deficits of structure and especially of factors. And if they're not specialists, it's not that I don't know what's going on, it's because there's an instability, because there's a specific opposition policy, and it's because cares don't consume. And we should take a turn on this whole question of structure, because it really seems to us that the subject is very important. And now it seems to me that you have a great deal of concern, and that we ought to make a great effort, first, to cultivate and agree with the correct measures. And that should be worked out with all the unions to fulfill the principles you're talking about. And then, and then, changing the standard of the opposition policy. For the exact policy of contracting, founded on provisionalness, and upon the foundation of a connection of dependence, is the basis of those habits which are given in OPE. And from this there are many privations: Defect pro, professional escape to other countries... A lot of professionals see what's going on with OPE here, and they don't have stable contracts, so they're gone. And not Europe, huh? Well, to Europe too, but to A Kantibria, Errisha, to Andalucia. And there, they represent it to OPE, and they don't go beyond those who don't here, because that's where they've passed the OPEs. And then, to finish, because I'm running out of time... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... and those who do not here surpass the OPE there have been overrated. And then, to finish, because time's almost over, there are two things that have been witnessed. One, IV.P., is nothing but a support if not established by other extrinsic measures. There must be different measures and additional measures because it has many vertices, but we must also have IVAP. And at the same time, at the end of IVAP, all EAE OPE doubt...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Thank you. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u83	Ms. Ubera, although you've come out of interpelation in the second, they're a policy of contraction, they go to other communities to test them (... ), that we meet with all the options that we meet when we work like all the rest of the world. I'm going to dive into this interpelation today. A selection process of equality, merit, ability, objectivity, impartiality, transparency, lightness and trust is the key to the jury. We trust in courts. They are waiting for the decision of the judge, which has occurred in very exact circumstances in the past, and which events have not questioned the work of the jury. The courts are the collegiate bodies whose function is to carry out the selection of candidates from the selective processes for which they are appointed. They are exclusively technical bodies and enjoy functional autonomy to ensure the objectivity of their performance. They must conform to the principles of equality, merit, capacity, publicity, objectivity and speed. The obligation to respect objectivity, neutrality, impartiality in the selective procedure and the duty of professional secrecy are fundamental duties. We believe in those principles. And we are sure that the measures adopted and the proposals and those that are being negotiated, which are already transferred to the trade union side, are in line with those objectives and are concrete. Let them be set up and do their work without questioning them or under suspicion before they begin. And, above all, I hope that they will not again raise those suspicions to other public officials in Osakidetza or the Department of Health. There are concrete measures. There are measures that are at the negotiating table, that are known and that are still being negotiated. Let's not forget. And let's not put the problem in... Let us not focus now on the problem that there is no practicality. You know that. And he mentioned the sectoral tables for which he has information, and it is seen that other kind of information such as that relating to the reasons for VAT. We have transferred the commitment we have adopted to VATP. And in response to that commitment, the VATP has responded by saying that technically it cannot carry out selective tests, examinations, the preparation of examinations, but that it will continue to participate in the rest of the process, as it does with other administrations, with other administrations as well. I suggest that you review the processes you are conducting, and you will see that your participation is not necessarily the elaboration of the reviews. That is why we not only do not leave VATP, which we have not done at any time, but also VATP is still with us and will help us, as I have told you, to ensure that transparency, that correction of the tests, to help ensure participation, not only, but I know that it is not just that, but that is that too. And there it is. I will not recall that time and justice, moreover, have ended up giving reason to previous officials of the department and of Osakidetza on whom an unjust suspicion has spread regarding their responsibility in altering the opposition process. It has become clear, given the conduct of the investigating judge, that there is no responsibility for the maximum directors at the time for events that are still under judicial investigation. Then and now the Department of Health and Osakidetza have shown their commitment to working with justice for the full clarification of what has happened and for establishing the basis for a process that offers the greatest guarantees to all and all aspiring people who want to enter work in Osakidetza. We will continue to work on this and we will continue to work so that sooner or later those calls can be carried out that will help and contribute to generating job stabilization which, I am sure we will all agree, is so necessary in all our institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u84	Thank you, chief physician. The 12th point in the theme list: "I'm asking you, Elisabet González Rodríguz, together with Podemos-Nozzer, member of the Anizka, members of the organization of the Board of Education, the state of the Barnages." Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u85	Thank you, ma'am. Good noon, chief. Last week, Gipulia and a twenty-center's parents received an alert that informed them of the slight intoxication caused by hystamine. It was supposed to be some kind of tuna that they ate at lunch. The same catering company manages all the damaged restaurants. That catering company's undergraduated by Red Christmas to serve as a social service. Although urgent action was taken by the Department of Health, the warning did not arrive in time, and by the time the withdrawal from the menu was effective, many students had already finished eating. There were several mild poisonings, none serious. But this episode leaves the families and the workers of the dining rooms worried. And that's been a long time since, and we all know it, yes, almost all of us. Y que, aside de lo corresponda al Departamento de Salud, es a su departamento, the Board of Education, your department is the dining room service that runs out, Donde prima el prefio de la em enterprisea por encima de illad de los productos que sere. That's why we want to know what kind of ratings you make, what your department does, about the school stations where the catering companies manage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u87	Mr. President of the Parliament, chiefs and congressmen, good morning. González andrea, the school dining rooms were configured as a complementary service essential to the educational service... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] Mr. President, chiefs and congressmen, good morning. Gonzalez andrea, the school dining rooms were set up as a complementary service essential to the educational service offered by our public institutions since 1994. And I will briefly give you some figures. "E el present curso académico, come diariamente en nuestros centactos en torno a 84.300 alumnos y alumnas." "A través de las emassis de catering se proporcion en torno a 330,000 de dichos menús diariamente." During the course of the course, according to the standard quality and security established in the present regulations, and if any independence happened, to follow the strict controls that serve to detect it. In answer to your question, it's important to show that these companies are doing professional, serious, and strict work. Not only do they serve private corporations, provincials, and people in general, but always linking them to the strictest quality and security of food. In our case, we collaborate with four companies that give jobs to 5,775 workers in our territory and that allow us to adequately meet the nutritional needs of our students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u88	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u89	Thank you. It's true, what you've said is what we've been hearing for 20 years from different leaders of people who manage school dining: that the system is reliable, that it's safe, that it meets all the food security requirements. And it may be true, besides, well, what happened last week, an intoxication can happen anywhere, but it gives the chance ez da gertatu sukalde propriak dauzkaten eskoletan, ez da gertatu prozesu osoa kudeatzen duten ikastetxeetan. Ez da gertatu, zeren gertatuz gero ére eskolan bertan geratuko litzateke. He has spent in a company that, as you said, makes thousands of menus a day in centralized kitchens, with products of kilometre origin, with dishes prepared many hours before, stored, transported, which are served under conditions of stress and noise and precarious work, which is hygienic without further explanation than that of the next shift. Food and products that have no connection to the educational project, not even to the local. Because school canteens are for the Basque Government a mere complementary service, as you have said, one more commodity in the education business. In fact, the school restaurants are just a piece of extra service to the EukkoM, the school restaurants are a different business in the educational business. Each year more than 16 million menus are distributed in the dining rooms of our public centres, all managed by four catering companies. And this is because the current regulations only provide that this model can be made, that of direct management, that managed by catering companies. Neither the kitchens in public centres, nor the dining rooms linked to pedagogical projects, nor the purchase of products of proximity for public centres, but for those concluded, even if it is the same company and between one centre and another are a few meters. For things like this, many families that we bet on public school ask ourselves: baina zer jaten dute gure semi-alabek, zer onartzen ditu, zergatik onartzen Eusko Jaurlaritzak ezberdintasun horiek? Eta hor exitzen will say susmoak, because we all remember the fine of the 18 million that they put to the catering companies accusing them of fraud and of fixing prices. We also recall the resolution of this Parliament's Committee of Inquiry. In the last invitations to tender, the price has fallen by 10 %, but this has not affected families, it has affected the quality of the products used. And the 2019 motion is also remembered here. Every day we are more unbelieving in their commitments. What about the four kitchens in Durangaldea; five years late, year after year, with different excuses? With this new scenario they have opened, please, I expect ten ikastetxe publikoetan behar hori weretzutea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u90	Thank you, time is up. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours. Gonzalez andrea, as I indicated in my previous speech, the provision of the dining service is carried out in accordance with the highest standards of quality and food safety laid down in the current regulations. According to the examination of the health department, this accident caused 20 schools, 3 to 3 to Gipuzia and 17th of Gipuzia. And from the 1,705 students in those schools, the 111 case. At the same time these disastrous reactions were detected, and thanks to the various origins of the situation at the destination, the company identified a series of active menus. The dishes in the dining-rooms which were to be served were hastily thrown back, and they paid attention to the pupils. Some of the students could throw the menu back on the second turn in the dining room. All the intermediates which had been mobilized, co-ordinated with the authorities, and with the various systems of individuality, were able to throw all the plates back, so that their expansion could be controlled before two hours before their reactions had been detected. Thus it has been shown that the action is effective in dealing with such situations. In accordance with the conclusions of the relevant food research report, the Department of Education reaffirms its commitment to further intensifying security and control measures in the face of such a sensitive service as food in schools. Look, Mrs. González, one thing surprised me, and it seems to me you didn't hear what I said: From 84.300 meals every day, from companies that serve 33,000. Do you know who decides, who stops? The Department doesn't decide, every school decides. And you know why he decides? According to the strength of each school, generally according to its size. And you'll see that most of the little schools are ingested through these companies, but most of the students, most of them, in a different way, and also by our agency, work on zeros and such actions. So I'm surprised to take such paths when it's not true. And I don't think it's worth noticing and showing such suspicions, because every school finally decides what it's all about... ..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u91	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the legendary staff of Laura Garrido Knörr Euscal Group, the member of the Ciudadans, made for the head physician of the Medical Department, the accumulated independence of COVID-19 of Euskade... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... dot: "The question is, the rise of the accumulated independence caused by the COVID-19 Euscad by Euscadin." Mrs Garrido is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u92	Eskerrik asko president andrea, Sailburuak, Osasun Sailburua. After a few weeks of the emergency in Euskadi, we have seen with concern how the numbers of the contagion are increasing. It seems that obviously we can't talk about a sixth wave, but there is a rebound and we are worried about the data above all comparatively in relation to other autonomous communities are growing much more. The cumulative incidence at 14 days is now in the Autonomous Community at 81.24, while in the rest of Spain at 46 %, it seems that (?) points above. Growths have increased by 27% in one week and hospital pressure as well. We can say that if it has not been noticed in the ICUs, and hopefully it is not noticed, the revenues on the plant have doubled in two weeks. That is why, Commissioner, we ask you specifically in the light of this data what your assessment of the epidemiological situation is with an increase in the number of infections in Euskadi above the national average.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u93	Thank you, Mrs Garridio, Mrs. Apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u94	Legebiltzarreko president andrea eskerrik asko, Garrido andrea, I think it's still not... I don't know, at least if you can talk about the sixth wave or not, I don't know what it's based on saying you shouldn't talk about it. We are at a time when evolution is going to determine and also the measures that... If we are to comply, it will determine what the development of the same is going to be and I hope you are right and we are not facing a sixth wave. It is true, as you said, that in the last three weeks the incidence has been increasing, moderately but increasing, and that this has had a reflection on indicators, such as hospitalization. But analyzing this situation in comparative terms with other autonomous communities and with the average of them doesn't make much sense, forgive me, and we have commented on this on more occasions. The behavior of the virus in the different territories is to follow the same patterns of growth and decrease with different weeks or as many days in its evolution. In Euskadi the incidence of the last waves has been later than the average, he knows it too, and so we have kept our indicators slightly above us during those months. But the truth is that the growing incidence in Euskadi, as in other communities, remains within low parameters. In addition, he knows that at present with such small numbers of cases, any change in them has a great impact on the percentages. Therefore, in view of this situation we remain alert by studying the incidence and evolution of daily outbreaks that may occur, and for the moment no new prevention measures have been considered. We are testing and screening where the possible emergence of outbreaks or confirmation of outbreaks so require according to our experts in public health and epidemiology, always following technical criteria. It is a statistical reality that in low incidence rates any outbreak has an important effect, but as the trend continues to grow, we will keep this close monitoring of its evaluation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs Garrido is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u96	On the one hand I would like to clarify that I did not mean at all that we could be in a sixth wave, that, obviously, as the counselor has pointed out, will be said by the epidemiological evolution and the data and hopefully not so, but we are in a scenario of outbreaks of increased contagion, and the facts, the evidence, tell us that far above the national average and other autonomous communities. This time the virus has not arrived later, it has arrived earlier, because other autonomous communities have better numbers. Now, Madam Counsellor, you will not be able to tell me that more tests are being carried out, because according to data from the Ministry of Health, in relation to the PCRs that are being carried out more tests Asturias, Balearic Islands, Canary Islands, Cantabria, Catalonia, Extremadura, Madrid, Melilla and La Rioja and Navarre, Euskadi an average of 1,056.72 compared to the national average of 1.201; I therefore believe that in this case the issue of the tests cannot be given as a justification. Look, I asked him this question above all because his vice-counsel also had the opportunity to talk about this subject in a radio interview and he talked about the need to follow a rigorous... rigorously the prevention measures, but he talked about a rigorous control in their compliance, and there he wanted to ask him the specific question: how will they verify that the prevention measures are being met in a scenario of apparent normality. I do not think that the data can be looked at at a specific moment, Madam Counsellor, but when we look at the Euskadi data throughout this pandemic and the evolution, what a coincidence, more restrictions, higher restrictions, more contagion. When we get out of the health emergency, because Euskadi is again leading the list of contagions and I do not know if you too have been able to reflect why in Euskadi we are always at the head of contagions, which I think is not good news, and obviously you will have to take the measures that correspond to evolution. But what I want to say is that... and what my group wants to make clear is that we'll have to do an analysis of what's going on, because no doubt this virus is beating more virulently Euskadi, that's clear, that's very clear. There are the data and I believe that this, as I say to you, deserves a reflection, an analysis, and on the part of your department and from the responsibility it bears, I hope that you will put yourselves to it if you have not already put yourselves on it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u97	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Ms. apple is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u98	I understand Mrs. Garrido that the last statement has been a way of speaking now, because as you will understand, and I think you already know, at no time have we left from the Department of Health or being concerned about the evolution of the... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... It has been a way of speaking now, because as you will understand, and I think you know, at no time have we left from the Department of Health or being concerned about the evolution of the pandemic or doing daily monitoring of the pandemic by all our entities. I would tell you that, that statement you make that you are far above, would invite you, would also invite you to compare the beginning moments of the pandemic and what are the values, so that you see – and you will probably find it – the rise at this time, this rise moment, the speed of the increase in Euskadi is not higher than in other communities. Since the vaccination process reached the levels that we currently have in Euskadi, almost 90% of the target population with the full pattern, which we also take as an indicator, in addition to the incidence of infection, the pressure that the pandemic exerts on the health system has been improved. You know that; you even asked for action on the scoreboard before lifting the health emergency. We have adapted the table of indicators, because it is not the same thing to find a 90% vaccinated population as not to find it. I would tell you to note that the data at 25 October show that the evolution of the rate of monthly hospitalizations per 100,000 inhabitants in Euskadi in what goes for the month is 2.7; the state average is 4.4. They only present better data Galicia, Ceuta and Catalonia, to which we aspire, of course, to be able to reach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u99	Thank you, chief physician. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question, The Greys of Amaia Martín, a member of the Mistho group of the Medical Department, after arriving at the Delta plus modification of COVID-19 in Spain on the threat of a sixth annual infection in Euscadin." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u100	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be very brief. In Russia, in the United Kingdom, in other European countries, restrictions are already being applied to the advance of the latest mutation of the VOCID-19 virus and the variant, in this case Delta plus. Others, we are seeing this as something that we already see very close, and we fear that the same will happen in our country. So far, the pattern has obviously been repeated as a calcus, a close threat that always ends up arriving in Spain and also in the Basque Country. And right here we are experiencing a worsening of the situation, with more deaths and more hospitalizations. So far it has been a bit of an oversight of the managers one of the main allies of the virus. This has facilitated its expansion, as with very dramatic consequences for all already known, although the exact figures of the deceased are still unknown. Court decisions are added to improvisation. The last, concerning the second state of alarm, moreover, unconstitutional; state of alarm supported in the Spanish Congress by its party, by the PNV. Unconstitutionality calling into question the anti-pandemic law, this Basque anti-pandemic law that has been adopted in this Parliament as a fundamental tool to deal with the health crisis. In particular, it raises serious doubts about the fundamental issues of this norm, such as: the ability to limit movements, the viability of co-governance, and to delegate restrictive measures to the autonomous communities, all of which are protected by the state of alarm, as I say, unconstitutional. It would therefore be interesting if we could explain today in this House how this situation affects the moment of certain uncertainty that we are now experiencing. In addition, we understand that they are discussing these issues with the Government of Spain, something that Vox is clear about and has already appealed to the court in question, I repeat. I am confident that it will respond to these and other issues that are of great concern to us and to many citizens. To what extent is the current evolution of the pandemic worrying? What does that mean by your deputy health counselor, Mr. Quintas, about semi-normal Christmas parties? How is the Health Council and LABI facing the new situation? To what extent is the Delta plus variant of the virus a threat? And one last question: Do you still believe that Basque anti-pandemic law is a useful tool for managing and fighting the pandemic that, previously, or that we are seeing it coming to us? And now, to finish, what I want to say is that I wish everything were in one more scare. I hope the situation remains under control. And I hope that we will continue to move towards the recovery of normality, both of freedoms and of trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u101	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u102	Thank you, Mrs. President of the legislature. Seeing the content of the interventions in the proposals that the Joint Group has been making to us since the start of the parliamentary term, I think that there is only one answer that you would like to hear, and that is that we are not going to do anything about it. I'm sorry, I'm not going to give you that satisfaction because we've done, we're doing and we're going to keep doing it. Because, apart from its current concern, during the pandemic, it has always been decided by those who questioned scientific evidence on the routes of infection of COVID-19, and on the places where they occurred. It has flagged all requests, regardless of the social economic sector from which they came, which required the elimination of preventive measures. And now you ask me what measures the Basque Government intends to take to avoid a sixth wave of COVID-19 contagion in Basque and its negative impact on the health and economy of this region? Please. That internal forum I think would be happy, yes, if I told you we're not going to do anything. What I am telling you is that, as we have done during these months, we will keep an eye on the evolution of the pandemic, alerts, in case it is necessary to take more preventive measures than we have at the moment, because you have forgotten to mention that we have them. And, by the way, the number of people killed in Euskadi is no unknown. The whole population knows it. I understand, therefore, that you too, because we notice it weekly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u104	Thank you, Mrs Sagardui, for explaining your answer. What worries me right now is that I also spoke for our group; what we have not said. Of course we have defended a return to normality, and you have defended that no, that is why that anti-pandemic law that your group has passed. What we're asking you is what measures you're going to take, whether we like them or not. We want to know; information is what we are looking for. I have also asked you what seminormality means to your government. It's something Mr. Quintas said: seminormality... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... information is what we're looking for. I have also asked you what seminormality means to your government. It's something Mr. Quintas said: seminormality. I believe that we are all entitled to know what that definition is for you and to know what we can have from here to Christmas. I do not think it is so difficult to respond concretely to everything we have asked you. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u105	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u106	(...) it is really difficult to attend to and evaluate all the contributions that come to us in the form of criticism or proposal from the opposition, because either they are diametrically opposed to each other, as they are often their own, or they are not consistent with what is proposed by the Government. You say well in the formulation of your question, to which I will stick because it is the object of this inquiry, that the incidence is greater in the most vulnerable population, which is that of less than 12 years because it is not vaccinated. That is an objective fact, scientifically proven, however much you do not want; once again, contrary to scientific criteria, associations, researchers. But no, you're always against it. And we have on the table, on the one hand, a pnl that urges the government to free from the use of masks in certain educational activities in these minors precisely, in one of the most vulnerable groups at the moment; on the other, autonomous communities like Madrid, in which I believe you are ruling, which also advocates the elimination of masks in these groups, or at least support it. In this context, we can only do one thing. It is: we continue with the circumstances in Euskadi, putting into value and applying the experience and tools we have to stop the virus from progressing, and to provide the best possible care to people who unfortunately need health care or hospital admission. By the way, I have told you on more than one occasion, the assessment of the performance in the fight against the pandemic is measured by the number of contagions in relation to the population, the number of hospitalizations and the number of people who have died. Data that, in Euskadi, are still better than average. And in the last survey on the evolution of the pandemic and the management of the fight against it carried out in Euskadi, it says, among other things, that only 15% of the population thinks that there could be a sixth wave, but that society supports the measures of the government. That the evaluation of the professionals of Osakidetza is 8.6; the evaluation of the Basque Government in 6.3. He's up. And the use of the mask advocates keeping it eight out of ten people consulted for the next few months. In conclusion, with respect to other surveys, the perception that we have done better in Euskadi than in other autonomous communities is improved. And so says the citizenry. I'm not telling you, Mrs. Martinez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, "The Forest of House Farmer and Legrand, the parliamentary laws of the EH Union, made to the Chief of Equality, Justice, and Society Society for the announcement of setting up a pilot Barnahus project." Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u108	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Then we ask this question about Barnahus or the children's house. As he will know, the chief physician of the Artolaries has passed through the legislature, and now we will set him to work as quickly as we can, we had the power of sexual immorality against children, and there we received the words of so many experts. Many of them joined in the pattern of Barnahus when it was time to put it on the table. But at the same time, we were told of the long work of setting it up, because it had the complexity to put it into motion between several sectors, and especially at the time when it was necessary to establish something of this kind. And we will confess that we were surprised that a couple of weeks ago, this remark in the press, which was soon informed that the pilot of the project would start somehow. And that's why we ask the chief physician if at this moment a system like this is already set up in Euskal Autonomy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u110	Thank you, ma'am. And good morning to all. Mrs Etxebarrieta, all I can assure you is that we have been working since last parliamentary term to launch this pilot experience in Euskadi. We know that this is a complex experience, because the collaboration of different systems is necessary. And in this we are already, as I said, working with the advice of the Save the Children entity. We announce to him in the Sectoral Commission on Children and Adolescents the launch of this pilot in the Historical Territory of Álava, which is also related to the Government's commitment 83 to the protection of minors. A great deal of work has been done with all the operators who participate, it is a work that is produced, and we have been able to recognize the characters, principles, and conditions required by the pattern Barnahus. We are acquainted with the difficulties and challenges of setting up the program, and we know that, as has happened in all countries, the model must adapt itself to different realities. "Poque el model Barnahus no es zen probably Iceland, para Estados o para cualquier otro país." Yeah, we're working, we're gonna keep doing it. We will present in the next technical days the report that Save the Children has made for the implementation with guarantees of the model in Euskadi. We are also working on the training of professionals, and since it could not be otherwise, the contributions that have already been taken into account in the parliamentary presentation that the last legislature has been working on this issue have been taken into account. Without further ado, I can assure you, or at least we will try, that in this piloting we will have all the experiences, with all the work of both Save the Children and the institutions and departments involved so that we can assume it with guarantees.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u112	Thank you. In the process of the legislature, as you have mentioned, we heard victims, listened to experts, and proceeded to mark our steps forward with the cooperation of other projects... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... As you have mentioned, we began to mark our steps with victims, experts, and co-workers of other projects. And there was one thing that came out of it, and as you have said yourself, it's based on the complexity of the project. And I agree with you in what you have said: it is not the same in Iceland, in the United States, or in the Esunomical Escany. And precisely because I think that this is why I think everyone has the peculiarity, that it must be done according to the institutional mechanism and social mechanism, I think that the potentiality of such projects is apparent. And this is why we think that all the steps to this potency must be carefully, in conjunction, and, as we said, established in confidence. And that's why, among other things, we put the question in, and the next day we received this conversation. Unfortunately, it's one day we've got the control meeting. And yet we will try to stay there, because we think it really important that we should work together with something like this, but we believe that we have space to continue talking about it and to build it. Because I repeat, we think the instrument is indispensable. And we think it's something that we have to step forward with a solid step in front of the pretty headlines or maybe at a moment. We absolutely do not deny the work you've done in advance. But we believe in these steps that we must create public confidence and security. If we have brought this question here, there are many members, and especially the members who have worked round the power of the sex, were astonished at us, and we also received the news, and we believe that we ought to socialize, and that we ought to be strong together in the course of these steps which we give us. So I'd like to finish it with a hand out on the question. And the contribution that we can make here somehow is to consider. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u114	Mrs. Etxebarrieta, for her hand stretched out. I always think we have more things that unite us than those that separate us. And, on this issue, I believe that the protection, prevention and promotion of children and adolescents is something we fully agree on. Yes, what I would like to remind you of is that, in that paper, which has been working since the last parliamentary term, a number of conclusions have been drawn and, in addition, a number of statements have been made that corroborate the need for this model to be put into effect. Moreover, we have done so not only with the internal knowledge that the department could have, but with all the agents who are involved in this issue. We have received these initiatives and reflections with great interest. We the Barnahus model understand that it is something necessary to implement in Euskadi. That was one of the main initiatives and conclusions that emerged from these presentations. In addition, I must remind you that they worked as well-recognized agents as the Ararteko, as heads of investigation of the municipal police, as the Office of Victim Care, as many institutions that decide and express their willingness to work together in order to be able to give this solution to a case that is complex to address. What we want is to bring together in a single space the needs both of the judicial, social, health, educational and security field, so that the testimony of minors is the most detailed and complete, that we do not revictimize the victims, and that on that day of November 12, to which they have been invited, we hope to continue to address and improve our...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The twentieth point in the theme list: "To ask the question of Jason Aguirre Garitagondia, of the parliamentary members of the EH Collectors, of Cultura, and of the chief physician of the Polic tongue, of the smaller measures which have been established in the cymbals." Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u116	Thank you, Madam President. And good noon to all and good noon, Mr. Zupuria. Does the department chief think he's doing all right around the movie theater? Let me give you one example. When you were asked the other day about eating and drinking in the movies, you gave the answer because it's very meaningful. You brought a headline under your arm to avoid the absurd size, and you threw it out as news that you're going to give $200,000 scholarships to the movie halls. When we heard that, we took a few minutes to pick up the sector and find out their opinions. Have you heard the counselor? €200,000 in aid. Eta eurek: "No, no, no... What's... 200,000 can't be. If we have 16 million losses. No, no, it's a mistake. It's two million." We waited for the transcript in case, and it was 200,000. The film hall sector didn't believe it. And when you came to the Cultural Committee, Monday, I asked you again twice, and you said it was 200,000. And I got back in touch with the sector and them: "No, no puede ser... Con eso barely serían 4,000 euros para los cises de menos de tres sales. No, no, no puede ser... "That's right. And my question is, apart from the inadequacy of the numbers or the vaccinity of the world, we've had a direct communication with the movie hall sector all this time. Anyway, wasn't there anyone to get in touch with the sector? Tell me, for example, about the manner in which he doesn't avoid eating and drinking, in order to clear up the amount of money? Or was it just to listen to the sector and appreciate its demands when somebody was down? So, that's why... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... To illustrate the amount of money, for example? Or is it someone who hears the sector and appreciates his demands? So that's why I'm asking you: You think he's doing all right around the movie?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u118	Mr. President, Mrs. Aguirre, Congressman, good noon to all. Yeah, I think it's fun. This is on both sides, and I'll ask you for help for one, Mrs. Aguirre. This is a health issue, and in the work you want to do as an intermediary, I'd like to ask you to be accompanied and intermediary in your health. To eat and drink in the movies is a matter of health, and the measures we have taken are the measures of health. Since the year after May, when we recovered the power of making decisions, we have made a special effort every moment and without interruption, on one hand to take the measures for health, and at the same time to start the economic activity. And in the beginning and foundation of these measures there have always been propositions of scholars and technicians, who have been counsellors and helpers in the pandemonies of the Covida, and even of the measures which surround the cine halls. Our technicians tell us that it is absolutely necessary to use the mask constantly in closed places, and their intention is to prevent the situations and activities which oblige us to remove the mask in the places where people gather; for example, to eat and drink. Aphors have gone up to 100 percent, they don't keep a half-foot gap between people, and these technicians think it's absolutely necessary for the constant use of the mask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u119	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u120	If you think that's what you're doing, the movie theater sector doesn't think you're doing well, and it's so clear that you've been suing for a while. 93% of the sector halls have been requested to cover the caucatric measures, because the ban to eat and drink is a comparative gravitation to the host. You can't see the sizes you've said on board. Because he's hopeless, because he has no legal security. And that's well governed? No, that's just a pointer to the failure of this government. The failure of a government, the failure of a government that does not hear, because the government that does not hear cannot rule well, because the government that does not hear is not just. And that's just a failure. If it had another way of governing, it would have a direct communication with the representatives of movie halls, he would listen, but you've failed. There's no use here to say that we don't know what pandemy was, because there's no pandemia that interferes with listening to others in the world. Pandemia is no excuse, counter, the pandemia has taught us the easier, lighter ways of communicating, and has also shown us how important it is to hear one another. That's why we ask you, because this is the house, not the courts, that is why we ask you to turn back and correct the decree. That's right, it's a deal with the sector. And there we will always be escorts and mediators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u122	The health measures are not negotiated. The time of judgment is determined, the judgments are made, and they are established. There are no negotiations, it's a medical matter. And we've had a constant relationship with the D.H.C. And in consequence of this relation we have received three different means of assistance, the last which was published the day before yesterday. Through this action and this connection we have informed the sector that between November 9th another call is open, the most direct subsidies from the state, which we have to deal with through the tax. And this call allows us to consider and economically for the loss of money which has been spent between the last year's March, September 30th, 2021. And because of the decision I made on October 6, and if after that there'd be more money, it'd be fun, just like she'd done from last year's March, she'd go back to the situation and check out the possible subsidies and helps. It's a bueltatuk osasun arlora. Joan den estezzkenean osasun arteko lurralde batzordeak bi erabaki hartu zituen, kirol garden buruzkoak, bath berdin-berdin balio dute toki itxietarako. "Three: wearing the mask. Monitoring of compliance with the mandatory wearing of masks during stay in these events will be strengthened. The transmission of this message to potential attendees should be strengthened." Lau: "Consumption of drinks and food. In general, neither the sale nor consumption of food and drink during these events will be allowed." This is what the health area says, here and there. Let's keep it up, Mrs. Aguirre.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u123	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Interra, Muriel Larre Laso Eusola, Popular-Cananos, Member of Parliament for the planetal Plant, Housing and Top of the Transport Department, about the arrival of the AHT Euscans." Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u124	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, counselors, counselors. It seems that the TAV issue is going to last us a few more years. And I don't know if the same thing will happen to you as to me. As a Basque, I feel ashamed to have been debating the arrival of the Basque Country's VAD for 30 years. By the time he gets here, really, he'll have invented vehicle mobility without... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... years debating the arrival of TAV in the Basque Country. By the time he gets here, really, he'll have invented vehicle mobility without friction propelled by... by... by air, fed by solar plates. I'm sorry, but I saw the movie Back to the Future and when I think about these things I think about the evolution of transport. And as we go, Mr Arriola, I do not want to imagine that this government will announce to us about the VAD in the coming months. What I do want is, and you will share with me, I want the TAV to arrive, to place Euskadi to the height it deserves. And, look, Mr. Arriola, really, it's not that I personally like to bother you, but you will agree with me that it can't be managed worse by the different governments that have had in hand the high speed in the Basque Country, well, some, but the last year because you have looked at each other. And there is nothing worse than creating uncertainty in the population about any project. And in the end, you, for you discredit yourselves those who manage. And look, I'm going to give you a little summary of all those statements because throughout 2020, 2021. The first, the TAV will not reach until 2026. The second, 2027. The third, which will arrive, but which may not subterranean, because it will arrive sooner. I don't know if he'll be here sooner, but... well. Then, that the temporary stations outside Bilbao and Vitoria do not know. The penultimate, which is buried. And the last, that the negotiation of the General Budgets of the State is subject to an agreement Socialist Party, PNV, in which we have to put dates and money for the arrival of the TAV, now yes, to Vitoria and Bilbao to its underground stations. And less wrong, really, that the last episode of this long telenovela that has been on the air for 30 years gives us the reason for those who believe that the TAV has to arrive and be buried. For one simple reason: because it is important that it arrives, of course, but it is also important that it arrives and that it generates opportunity in the Basque capitals to obtain spaces for citizenship on the surface of the stations, and thus eliminate those horrible railway gaps that over the last century divided most of our cities. And you will agree with us that with the rapid evolution of rail transport in the rest of the European countries, we, the Spaniards, are wearing a... then how many years of delay. That the railway contaminates much less, that the fuel vehicles that go through the road network of this our land contaminates much more. And high speed is an opportunity to decrease one of the largest sources of air pollution in developed countries. But not only that, but it is also important that the arrival of the TAV economically and as far as logistics is concerned because we are in a strategic geographical location to unite Europe with Africa. And look, we ask you to coordinate with the Government of Spain to address, in addition to the necessary steps for the Basque Country to be competitive with the rest of Europe, that the TAV arrive with its link Burgos-Vitoria already carried out. And look, in the modern world in which we live, it's not up to me to think that carriage by carriage or by horse is the future. And do not let yourself be dominated by those who are afraid of any social evolution, those for whom any past time was better than the present. They're wrong. The Basques want modernization, if possible, sustainable. And what more sustainable than removing cars and trucks from our roads. Because with the TAV we'll all be connected in one eye open and close. Do not further delay the arrival of high speed and negotiate with your party as soon as possible. Mr. Arriola, I was asking you, I was asking you, how your department proposes that the VAD arrive definitively in the Basque Country and with what calendar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Larrea. From the very moment that just over a year ago I took responsibility for transport again I put myself to work to boost the arrival of the high-speed train to Euskadi. On the one hand, directly, in the works carried out by our department in the Gipuzcoan branch; works that, as you know, we are carrying out by order of management of the Government of Spain, which is the owner of the infrastructure. And, on the other hand, also through interinstitutional cooperation formulas that favour the implementation of the high-speed line in the rest of the territory. At my first appearance in this legislature, I said, among other things, that I was going to meet with the Government of Spain to analyse the situation of the high-speed train and to be able to set realistic deadlines for the implementation of the infrastructure, taking into account the state of the outstanding actions and the budgets available at the current economic juncture. And that's what I did. In March of last year I moved the horizon that the Government manages for the completion of the work of the Basque Y, which is located, as already known, at the end of 2026 and the beginning of 2027. And I also said that there were no urban integrations in Bilbao and Vitoria Gasteiz on this completion horizon, because they are both in an informative study. And I'll refer to them later. Over this time I have appeared in this Parliament on no less than five occasions to report on the steps we are taking to achieve this objective. And I will continue to do so on as many occasions as necessary, because we are certainly talking about an essential infrastructure to connect the three Basque territories with the rest of Spain and Europe and to put Euskadi's strategic position in the Atlantic Corridor into value. An infrastructure that, in addition to improving both passenger and freight connectivity, will strengthen Euskadi's development and competitiveness. I understand that... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... both of passengers and goods, will strengthen the development of Euskadi and its competitiveness. I understand that the very complexity of the infrastructure and its scope can cause you some confusion, and here I am to clarify to the extent of my abilities the doubts that arise, but one thing is not to understand the complexity of the matter and another is to make qualifications, as you do in your letter of request to appear in this House (?) people like knitting. Of course, it is possible to combine the underground arrival to the Basque capitals with putting the service into operation or when possible. And that's called general interest, Mrs. Larrea. But Mrs Larrea, in this government there is no weaving, what there is is rigorous work in collaboration with the other institutions to move forward and do so as quickly as possible. Our commitment to the development of the high-speed train in Euskadi is total. The origin of the intervention of the Basque Government in the execution of the Basque Greek Y through various management commissions, dates from 2006 and has always been motivated by the purpose of speeding up the execution of this great infrastructure. In the Gipuzcoan branch, from Bergara to Astigarraga, which is running our department, all sections are finished, with the exception of Hernani Astigarraga and those corresponding to Ezkio station and Atotxa station, which are in different stages of execution. The current situation for the three tranches is as follows: Hernani and Astigarraga have a budget of 46 million and are already implemented at 42%. The work of the Atotxa station has a budget, an investment of 80 million euros and began in July of 20, and the Ezkio station, with a budget of almost 4 million euros, is also in execution. 74 % of the total Gipuzcoan route, which consists of 59 km of length, runs underground, while 14 % goes over the viaduct and the remaining 11 % transits to the open sky. As a whole, this branch will have 34 tunnels and 32 viaducts. For its part, the branches of the Basque Greek Y in Álava and Bizkaia as you know are being executed directly by ADIF. Currently 11 of the 20 sections are already completed, eight are in different stages of execution, and one is already awarded, the last, so the works will soon begin. The forecast is that the railway platform for most of these sections will be completed by 2024 and that it will subsequently be completed with the rest of the facilities: electrification of the route, security and communication system, etc. So far the actions that the relevant administrations are carrying out in Euskadi, because there are still several parts of the route that are under information study. And this is the case of access to the cities of Vitoria-Gasteiz and Bilbao, with their respective stations in the phase of environmental processing. A long phase and not without difficulty, that (¿) of the Government of Spain. Difficulties as witnessed by the 11,000 allegations related to the informational study of the Arkaute knot and the underground integration in Vitoria, which came from the institutions of Euskadi and the citizen platforms. The environment is a process that, of course, cannot be overshadowed and determines subsequent procedures. Still, we are doing everything in our power to move forward in parallel with that assessment. And the result of this work is the protocol that we approved this week in the Governing Council and that, among other issues, enables the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda to quote, through ADIF, the basic project, the basement of Vitoria Gasteiz, which will subsequently and once the information study has been approved, become concrete in the constructive projects. This agreed decision by all the administrations that make up the Society High Speed Vitoria Gasteizko Abiadura Handia, is something unusual, but it will allow us to accelerate the pace of processing and shorten the deadlines. Our aim is also to move forward in Bilbao, and for this it is necessary, and I have made it clear to all parties, that the protocol setting out the financial commitments of the institutions that will be involved in this project will be signed as soon as possible. And as a country infrastructure, it would be desirable for it to have as much support as possible from all institutions. This protocol is also a preliminary and inescapable step towards the constitution of the society that will be responsible for the burial in Bilbao. On the other hand, I would like to make it very clear that the railway underground of the high-speed train in Bilbao and Vitoria-Gasteiz has not been questioned at any time and that all the institutions involved, both the Government of Spain and the Basque Government, as well as the municipalities of Bilbao and Vitoria and the Diputations, at least that of Álava, we are working to make it a reality as soon as possible. Along with this, I have also shown my interest as a Transport Advisor for the fact that the service comes into operation at the moment it can do so, seeking formulas in a consensual manner with all the administrations that compatible the commissioning of the high speed train and its use by the Basque citizen with the execution of the underground works in the two cities, without this implying neither questioning the underground nor parking us or delaying them. The Basque Government's commitment to the high-speed train, Mrs Larrea, is total, and we are taking steps to get it to Euskadi in the way agreed by all the administrations, that is, through the underground integrations of Vitoria and Bilbao on the surface in the case of Donostia-San Sebastián, and working to make it a reality as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u127	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Your word is the Larrea. [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u128	(...) Arriola. Really, that tastes bad to me, it feels bad to have to answer this to you that I'm going to tell you: have you really made sure you're going to shorten deadlines? Did I hear that? Did you just say that there has been no question of the underground of the stations of Vitoria and Bilbao? But, let's see, when you talk about temporary seasons, that I know about the provisional forever, that I have learned it a lot, of course, is that it has not been questioned. Of course, they give you another solution, a plan B and... Really, they sound like excuses to me. And don't get me wrong with what I'm telling you, but it's not about you explaining to me when the TAV is coming or... Explain this to the Basque citizens. It's just that they're the ones who have the trouble, because I think your department hasn't expressed itself well or brought a certainty to the population so that they really have certainty. And this is about making sure. And I, really, everything you've said to me sounds like excuses. You are arguing what has happened throughout the history of the 30-year TAV. Well, you've argued last year, but it sounds like excuses. This anywhere wouldn't happen this way. To any company that tells you it takes 30 years to build an infrastructure... Hey, I'm aware of the difficulties that an infrastructure of this size can carry out, okay? I mean, I've got it pretty clear, and I'm the first one. But it is true that I believe that you would have to stand in front of the mirror and know how you explain things to the citizenry, because the citizenry is not understanding it. And look, I'm going to tell you one thing, the Basque Nationalist Party, the party that supports this government, its party also supports this government, is tied to the Sánchez government and its lies. It happens to them like the rest of the Spaniards. And Mrs. Arriola, you throw out balloons. He announces plans B, you announce that yes, no, that I do not question the underground, that I do, that he has Ezkio, that Vitoria, that... Let's see, reality is what it is and is unquestionable: delays, delays and delays and uncertainties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u130	Mrs Larrea, I believe that, in my first speech, the commitment of the whole Basque Government and my own as a territorial planning, housing and transport adviser, with the underground integration of the high-speed train in Vitoria-Gasteiz and Bilbao, has become very clear. And with the arrival of high speed to Euskadi. So much so that we have already made progress for a long time in our commitment to pay 25% of the cost, which ultimately results in integration in cities. In fact, the underground integration in the two capitals is a bet of all the institutions involved in the development of this infrastructure: the Basque Government, the municipalities, the Foral Diputación de Álava and the Government of Spain. In addition, in the Basque Government we are prepared to implement, where possible, through a management order and thus advancing its financing, the works of the accesses to Bilbao in the section of the Zaratamo tunnel to Cantalojas and part of the work of the Arkaute knot, in order to also help to speed up the execution of these works. Look, Mrs Larrea, whenever she can, brings to light the supposed lack of will of the Spanish Government and the action of this government in the development of the high-speed train in Euskadi. And this statement (...) refers to the Government of Spain is only a half-truth. You and I have had the opportunity to discuss this issue on other occasions, and I have shown you with figures that this lack of will always coincides or coincides with the times when your party, The People's Party, is at the head of the Government of Spain. The volume of investments made by different governments over time does not deceive, does not deceive, and reveals who has had the political will to push the project forward and who does not. This is the reality. This is the reality. Over the past four years, the Socialist Government, chaired by Rodríguez Zapatero, between 2008 and 2011, the Spanish Government invested more than 769 million euros in this infrastructure. On the contrary, the last four years, with the PP and Rajoy at the forefront, between 2015 and 2018, the investment in Basque Y barely exceeded 266 million euros. This is the reality, Mrs Larrea. And it is from the 19th when the investment again shows a clear upward trend. In fact, the items envisaged in the draft State General Budgets for 2022, for Basque Y, amount to more than 300 million euros. It is clear that what the data tell us is that in order to make the necessary investment to undertake the works and the (...) of the Basque Y, the best guarantee is that there will continue to be a government of Spain with a socialist presidency, Mrs Larrea. If you care so much, when the election comes, you have a chance. Mrs Larrea, I am aware that Basque Y is a large infrastructure, which leaves no one indifferent. It is also true that there are parts that do not advance at the pace we would like, but we are working and putting everything on our side so that there will be a significant boost in the qualified works in Euskadi in this legislature. In short, and to clear up all your doubts. One, the entrances to Vitoria-Gasteiz and Bilbao will be buried. Two, the Basque Government will be responsible for the execution of part of the access to Bilbao, and also part of the Arkaute knot. Three, the solutions that can be adopted, to start the service while the underground is being executed, will be carried out in a consensual manner and will not entail any delays or questions in the underground. And finally, Mrs. Larrea, do you want me to reread the parable of the straw in the eye of others? Because I read it to you, I have it here. And speaking of truths and attitudes, it's one thing to preach and it's another thing to give wheat... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] And with regard to truths and attitudes, one thing is to preach and another is to give wheat. To preach, as minister Ana Pastor preached at the time, saying that at the rate of investment they were carrying, the VAD was to be finished in the 19th. He said it in 15, 2015, the year of the lowest investment of TAV in Euskadi. Or the Serna minister, who in the 16th said he was going to give a decisive boost to the project, and in the 17th the investment not only went up but low. You, look at me, that's the reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u131	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. fourteen points in theme list: "Interrelation by Erasitz de Egililaz, members of the Ramos EHGGDs made for the planetal Plantion, Housing, and the head of the Transport Division, in plans for modifying the rental policies of the younger. " Ms. Saez de Egilaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u132	Yes, thank you, Chief. Good morning, Chief Arriola. Good morning congressmen. Today we come with an interpelation, and in the title of this interpelation the problem and the solution of the problem are shown. We are going to discuss the difficulties of giving young men, for my own part, and in the presence of which we shall refer the rent, because we wish to know whether there is any ambition in this government to increase a rental policy. We are speaking of transformation, because it is inevitable, because it has hitherto been wanting, and because this government has let many ambitious chances perish. It's about 46 years old, for instance, as much as the average of the one in this parliament, and it's in 30 years old enough for Araba, Biscay, and Gipuzian. In Madrid, it's about 48 years old. And, in the Spanish State, it's 29,5-year-old average. Other numbers don't tell us reality, but they come up somehow to a reality. And here we are informed that it is nearer the age of this parliament than the age of those who are young or teenagers at the present day. So they only give us a picture of reality, these average ones. But the impossibility of giving is a reality and a fact. This is the theme on the first line of a political diary, and can be worked out in a thousand different views. Why is Araba, Bizka, and Gipuzia in 30 years? A thousand causes, or as a result of a question of structure, which have been more than once discussed in this legislature, we may sum up the situation in a single sentence: We have to discuss economic instability, because that's what we live for. The generalization of miserable corporations-that is to say, the economic instability that the Prefect has contributed. In the presence of this impossibility, and knowing that these inability is due to certain causes of structure, they find too many obstacles to give way to the young Araba, Biscay, and Gipus. Hooli's right is luxury for a whole generation, but not just for young people. It's a problem with the whole society, this housing crisis, this emergency, or this disaster. That's why we want to know what your bureau's offer is in this area. And in our opinion, the eternal is no longer valid. Alokairuaz hitz egin behar dugu. Let's talk about rents, the basics and the fundamentals for young people in this country. Let's talk about the inability to emancipate because of the inability of this government to implement and reinvent public rental policies. What about Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa with the rents? Why don't we use what's being done? Why do we need strong, innovative and guaranteed public rental policies? We need to talk about the basics today. We know that the majority of the younger people are worried about everything that concerns the rent, and that this is a terrible matter. But why is there such a worry? One because it's a real desire and desire for young people. And data always conveys that to us. Young people who think they won't be able to give in a year's time, between 15 and 29, were in 2020. In 2020, the young men who lived chiefly by the money of their parents, or others of their own family, during the age of 16 and 29, were 5.6. And the valuation rate, 2019, between 18 and 34, was 3.8. Even because it's a rental, the way young people use most to invade. And the percentage of people who live in a rental apartment, 18 and 34 years old, for instance, because it was 45% at 2020, most of them lived in rent. Eta, azkenik, alokairuen abuseko prezioek gasteak itotzen dituztelako. Eta, hor, titirak argiak will say: "10,000 young Bilbaos with work want to become independent but cannot afford a flat". Edo El Diario Vasco -ren azken titrioretako bat: "The cost of rentals reaches its record in Euskadi". I think we are right enough, even beyond what I have said today, to say that we must make bold decisions. And to say that housing policies, rental policies, require a real transformation because the situation is unsistensible. The matter of rent is not to be left to-morrow, and, above all, a reply must be given about the suffocation of this society. Bilbo, for example, the average rent is $184 euros. It's more than $184 euros. In these conquests, even if 10,000 young people work, they want to invade, but they can't, and they can't afford rents because the price of rent is a scandal. Most of the young people live with their parents, for instance, because the process of rent is too complicated and hardly adequate. Many houses are in miserable conditions, living alone cannot be proposed. And why don't you tell them why it's expensive to rent a house for many people and it's easier to watch them wait and buy a house? Where can they even start renting? How do you start your search results? If we are living in the cities or in the metropolis, or perhaps in some great peoples, the chances may perhaps be, but in smaller countries there are hardly any houses in rent... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... The chances may perhaps occur in the centres, or in the life of the metropolis, or in some great peoples. But in smaller countries, there's hardly enough houses to rent. The rental's private park is very small in most areas. And you'll tell us there's a public rental park. And, yes, that's true, but for many young people, considering social, economic, and other matters, it's very difficult to complete all the conditions. And why don't you tell me what it's very hard to play in this Eusk0 or the town's offer in this area? In the suburbs, for instance, there may be more offer as far as private park is concerned, but you know the price at which the housing is situated. In Donostian, for instance, those which a terraceless and two-room housing might be in pretty bad condition are paying 950 dollars nowadays for a house like this or any person in the Donostara. And besides, they can't complain. And we'll have to talk speculation, because people speculate on this matter. And around you, around us, there's a lot of speculators. And we can't allow people to make a business with their own homes, and to maintain the interests of certain landowners over the rights of the tenants, and to limit them. It's a very painful process to rent a house. And that's why we say we're fed up, like at St.ostian, collecting extra rents for students over 1,000 dollars, and having to go back to their homes while the owner walks in the summer. It is also an insult that when we go about renting a house, we should show nomines and have no opportunity of renting those who are unemployed. And we are also sick of sending the young to the metropolis and banishing them from the centres of the city. Because in our neighborhoods life projects are developed and enjoyment is a luxury today. And we also know that the origin of persons is a condition for many immbilizers not to give them their rents. It is, therefore, extremely difficult to rent, even for the emigrants. That's why we want to know why tenants' rights are being bullied over and over again. And in this landscape, too, there has been a change from young people. You guys have seen a change just a few days ago. And the majority rentals have been raised in the area we can afford to pay the rent. We even said when we went back to school: He's a very limited youth. And it's not enough to overcome the extreme situation we're in today. And I said, too, that in the previous year's study, in the suburbs, for instance, the rents of 750 euros didn't exist. Now you've raised those maximum rents. And because you accepted another proposition, as well as Podemos, which you also accepted with regard to these revenues. And now the young will be able to hire more rental housing, but with a lot of differences or differences. It's almost impossible to rent into the suburbs now, because you've only looked at 45 euros, putting it in 775 euros. You raised Donostia from 650 euros of the metropolis of Bilbo to 750 euros, 100 euros. It's a lot. But you're sending the boys to the metropolis. And in over 1,000 countries, 100 euros have been raised. But I've told you before, we hardly ever find houses in those countries to rent. And we also know that young friends are in danger. The prices are so high that many young people see themselves obliged to pay for that money from their young friends, put a bill of money in their rent contract, but then give them more money in a sobre. And this is a reality. And it's happening too. And then we'll have to talk one day. So, my friend, in this miserable situation, we're not much of an alternative. It's just a little joke. And with this change, with the change you've made this time, and with increasing maximum income, we're accepting a few scandalous prices on rent. And we want to know what the answer is to this.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Saez de Egilaz, encouraging the emancipation of young people is one of the strategic lines of my department and also of this government. We are making every effort to do so, including the resources available to this administration. As you well know, since I have said this on more than one occasion in this House, Gaztelagun is a support program for youth emancipation that we launched in 2019. It's a program and a line of work still young. But that, as I have also stated in this forum, we have been progressively adapting and improving to increase its effectiveness and responsiveness. Therefore, already in the 19th it was decided to extend it to applicants with higher incomes, in order to respond to the difficulty of access to free rent in the municipalities where the housing had a greater shortage. And today Gaztelagun is going to go from being a temporary aid programme for three years to becoming a structural programme, with aid that will be permanent until the age of 36. As indicated in the report published by the Housing Observatory in December 20, there were 1,620 active aids at that time. However, in the first two years of the programme, 1,992 young people enjoyed this assistance at some point. And, to this day, according to data provided by the public society Alokabide, this figure has been exceeded, with 2,100 young people who have been helped by the Housing Department to pay the rent of their home since the birth of Gaztelagun. The course, Mrs. Saez de Egilaz, is set. The Gaztelagun programme is being effective; it is also progressing in the objectives we have set ourselves with its implementation. Moreover, our intention, our objectives for next year 22 is to reach the 3,500 young beneficiaries through the impetus of this Government initiative. [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... with a view to next year 22 is to reach the 3,500 young beneficiaries through the impetus to this government initiative. And yes, as you have pointed out, the Order of 17 September 2021 has changed the maximum income of the ASAP program, and also of the Gaztelagun program. Thus, with regard to the latter programme, and as provided for in Article 2.2 of the said order, the monthly income of the dwellings has been modified, the rental price limit established for this programme. Limit that was also mentioned, the increments, reaches up to 775 euros in Bilbao, in San Sebastián, and in Vitoria Gasteiz to 750 in the metropolitan areas of Bilbao, Donostia-San Sebastián and the municipalities of more than 10,000 inhabitants and to 675 euros in the rest of the municipalities. But says more the order, says they will continue to be beneficiaries of the Gaztelagun program people who in annuities after the initial year pay income that exceeds those amounts because they have been updated in the terms provided for in article 18 of the Law 29/1994 of 29 November, on Urban Rentals. What we have intended with this, for look, to adapt to the reality to the extent of our possibilities, because as you will well know, we are managers of what... if I am allowed colloquially is known as a public thing, that is, the public resources that in any case are always limited, and therefore we are obliged to prioritise the fate that we give to them, and in addition, we are concerned and try to prevent that public aids could contribute to an undesirable effect, such as the increase in prices in rental housing. In fact, the changes introduced in the programme have made it possible to increase significantly the number of young people receiving rent subsidies in the year 20 and as far as we are concerned in the year 21. An aid which today accounts for 51% of the income paid by recipients, who receive an average amount per beneficiary of EUR 219, although one in two recipients receives the maximum amount of EUR 250. I would also like to say to you that we are going to step up our commitment in this area by reconciling the young people's bonus announced a few days ago by the President of the Government of the Republic of Venezuela with the Gaztelagun programme, so as Mr Saez de Egilaz said, the way in which young people are being treated is set, and it is another thing that, as always, from the department we are open to considering the opportunity and desirability of making adjustments and adjustments to this Gaztelagun programme. We have done so and do not give up doing so in the future. No doubt, this is one of the priority issues in the department I run. We are not strangers, as it could not otherwise be, to the problem of access to rented housing among young people, and that is why precisely this program, the Gaztelagun program, a program, you know, pioneer in Spain was born. We know and know the magnitude of the problem, and in this regard, addressing this problem is a challenge for us. In the same vein, the promotion of affordable rent is one of the bets and priorities that we have in the department with a view to young people as well. Our aim is to facilitate and ensure access to decent housing for as many people as possible who require this basic resource to carry out and develop a life project as fully as possible, and among them, of course, young people. We are working to increase and improve the public protection housing stock and to ensure the right to decent and adequate housing, focusing our efforts and objectives on achieving the widest possible rental housing stock. This has been our bet, my personal bet and that of the Basque Socialists, and it was thus noted in the Housing Act that this same House approved in 2015. The lines and strategies pursued by this Government, the course to which you referred in your inquiry, are marked and well-oriented. And not only because the Housing Act says so, but also because this government has launched quiet initiatives, as it has been and is the commented Gaztelagun program. But returning to the core of your concern, helping young people and their emancipation process will remain one of our priorities. I have already pointed out to you that as public managers we have to be very strict with the (?) that at last and at last belong to all citizens, that we must prioritize in that sense (?) the reality we are in, and that the problem of housing affecting young people, as I have said, is one of our priorities. But I believe that this must be a priority not only for this administration, but also for the rest of the administrations operating in our Autonomous Community with competence in the field of housing, as well as municipal housing societies and other agents. This challenge affects us all, and the responsibility to deal with it is common to all public actors and also to private actors. And here you not only have to see the situation, as you do. We know firsthand the situation of youth in Euskadi. We must also propose, and I say this to you because both my department and I have the hand stretched out and the ear placed to listen, study, agree and program constructively solutions in this matter. As you will understand, we do not want to leave anyone behind, and as far as youth is concerned, even less. We are already taking steps, and to the facts I refer, your inquiry itself is a further demonstration of what we are doing. Could more be done? Do we want to do more? And that's what we're on, Mrs. Saez de Egilaz. In this regard, we are accompanying the Gaztelagun programme with the promotion of accommodation facilities specifically designed for young people. In addition, we have set up a quota of up to 40% in rental housing awards specifically for young people... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... destined for the young collective. We have also set up a quota of up to 40% for rental housing specifically for young people. And our short-term intention is to extend this young quota also the Bizigune program. As regards the amount of the aid itself for the next financial year 2022, we have provided the draft budget law with EUR 8 million for the payment of rent benefits for young people. But, as you see, our ambition, our purposes, as I said, go beyond the well-known Gaztelagun programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u135	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Ms. Saez de Egilaz, yours...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u136	Thank you, Chief. Well, I'm glad to hear that this chief physician is willing to find other solutions beyond his youth, and this department in general. But, well, for ten minutes, you've talked about the Castile friends mostly, and, well, I'd like to mention a few things about them too. Lehenik eta behin, uste dut, well, first of all I think we need to start talking a little bit about how we propose emancipation policies or policies for young people in general. We are not talking about helping young people, we are not talking about helping them in a specific situation. We are talking about how we are going to make all the rights of all people recognized and guaranteed and armored. And that's what we're discussing, discussing and, above all, that's what we want to achieve. And in this case, for example, I believe that the young are far beyond our assistance, both in this interpelation, and in general with the new solutions or policies which we make up, because I believe that we are in the presence of a problem which affects the whole community, because it lives in the trading problems of a whole generation. And are we even to talk about those houses which, when these young people find a rent, or are overcome by all these difficulties of rent or rent, rent a house in what rights or rights? How the rights of these systems are established, and what public policy we place in order to defend them, and always to make a wager for them. I don't think he's effective. It's not enough because it's not effective. For 3,500 people, you've declared that help will be given to young people. 10,000 people, 10,000 young people in Bazay, like Bilbai, for instance, trying to invade the housing, and they don't have a chance because the housing rents are very high. Orduan, when we talk about adapting to reality, we also talk about adapting not to reality with a specific program, but of adapting to reality with all the public policies we have. And if others are to be created, then others are created. Right now we're trying to say, trying to scream, too, I think, and from the street you're saying that it's not enough what you're doing, because there's a private rental market where everyone's saying that those rentals are coming to a top, a record where we can't take on. And if we can't assume, we have to come up with other alternatives and we have to say that it's okay, that things here don't work that way. And in the young men's case, it may be an opportunity to spend some young men, it may also be a joke. You said that, too, Bono Joven that could come from Spain, this young man's program will also be associated with that Bono Joven. There may be a chance for many young men, but a 3500 young man is not the majority of the young people who live here in the Basque Country, but he is not the minority. Then we'll only talk to a program about that opportunity to play, but we'll talk about a specific opportunity that young men can have. And we must go far beyond and be much more ambitious, must be, or at least must be. Because we believe that it is really very difficult to live for rent and we have to come up with decent solutions for these people who live for rent and we have to shield all those rights so that people can live for rent and it is a real solution, a real alternative. And we have to do it, and that's what we have to say, we have to plan this scandal that's giving private rent market, we have to end with this speculation that's being given, because it's being insolent, and above all because we're leaving many young men and a whole generation without a chance to be able to spend a whole generation. We need resources, measures and alternatives. And these alternatives must be arranged and shared among all of us. And for us, you can't be a friend with a program star or a program that can't be the only program that looks at the young people's distraction in the area of the apartment. And we have to develop this opportunity to live in neighbors and villages. We must also assume that right to develop our life in neighbors and villages. And for that, we need a thousand other tools and a thousand alternatives. And it must be said that we want the lives of the young in the centre, we must have a real opportunity to bring them to life. And when the rent is up and up, we're going to plan it, and this government will definitely plan it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u138	Thank you, President. Mrs. Saez de Egilaz. Look, the problems of youth are and will be many, I have no doubt. But it is up to me, unfortunately, to make policy in the area of housing in this case. This is where I have to address and put forward the measures that I consider most appropriate within the management capabilities of my department. And within the management and planning tools that we manage with a view to the future is the Housing Master Plan 2021-2023, which I will shortly present and on which we will have the opportunity to discuss at this very headquarters. The main mission of the plan, to advance it, will be to give an answer to people in need of a... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ...we will have the opportunity to debate at this very venue. The main mission of the plan, he said, would be to provide a response to people in need of decent and adequate housing, increasing the supply of resources for both affordable rental and improved living conditions and sustainability of the residential park. Strengthening the commitment to the promotion of private and public protected rental, incorporating new alternative forms of access to affordable rental housing is another line of action of the Housing Master Plan. All this, including the perspective of the housing needs of young people. In this general framework of action planned for the next three years, young people, as I say, but also other groups in need of housing, will play a leading role. To this end, the plan provides for a whole range of support for the promotion, including the rehabilitation and acquisition of residential complexes through cooperatives and other non-profit associations for the assignment in use of housing. The transfer of dwellings must have as beneficiaries young persons, older persons, intergenerational mix, as well as those groups in which the need for housing is genuinely justified. Promotions may be directed to one or more collectives in the same promotion. This is an advance of what is envisaged in the medium term as one of the measures, one more, on which we are working to respond to the housing needs of our community. Because we believe that the response, although it requires particular approaches, as is the case with young people, must be an integral response. Because we must not stop caring for other people in society who also suffer from a lack of this good of first necessity. And in order to do that, we have to work together, collaborate and cooperate, all the actors involved, both public and private. This is an issue that affects us all, as well as civil society as a whole. Political parties, trade unions, associations, judiciary, administrations. All this cooperation framework we want to implement through a housing pact that we are already working on, and we want to do so as participatory as possible. And we also want to make that storm of ideas, make concrete proposals beyond the general demand. Specific proposals to measure, rate, assess whether they are possible. Because sometimes it may look good in this forum, in this rostrum, to make great generalist and demanding proposals, but the important thing is to solve people's problems. And people's problems are solved by proposals that are executable, that are tangible, that are concrete and that allow people to move from expectation to enjoying a reality that is to be able to develop their lives in a decent housing. Pact for housing, we did it before, we did it before. It was also up to me to carry out this pact for housing in Euskadi. And now we want to do it and we'll do it again. As you see, Mrs Saez de Egilaz, the lack of directional orientation is not something that concerns us; we have direction and orientation. We know where we want to go, but we also know that this journey cannot be done alone if what is intended is to arrive at a good port, to which we can satisfy the need of many of our fellow citizens who need decent housing. And for that we will have to cooperate. To unite efforts, each from their responsibility, from their site, but without forgetting that the more we agree, the easier the single and the safer the port will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u139	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 15th point in the theme list: "Interregation, you're in Martíni with Podemos, a member of the Antizian Division of the Parliament for the planetal Plant, Housing, and the chairman of the Transportal Department, about regulating the rental." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u140	Pick it up on. Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu Andrea. Iñaki Arriola, councillor, eguerdi on, I think the third has been the one that has been won and we convince him that we can also make progress in housing policies. My intention at this moment is not to make a revision of all the housing policy, or give concrete facts, because we have often done this in this plune and many other places. We know how big the housing's problem is in Basques, not just in Basques, but especially here, because we have the kind of market, the size of the rent market. We also know the prices of the rent market and the prices they're on. And we also know what public policies have been developed in the past decades when we're talking about the Eukadin housing politics. And you know, and as we have said in this Chamber, as we have proposed and tested, we agree in several pretty ones, and in other policies we demand more development and more budget. Gaurko egun Honetan, gure gaia berriro ere rèminta berri batri buruz aritu race momentu Honetan. A new tool that will be put in place thanks to the new housing law that will be passed throughout the State, and therefore will also be put in place here. Thanks to the boost of housing defense platforms and tenant defense platforms, and also thanks to the pressure of the United Nations We can have that housing law at the state level. You are going to tell me that we have a housing law here, yes, we support it, most of us defend it, and we also advocate that it be deepened and that it has more budget. What that law is going to bring, in what we do not have here, are more skills and more capacity to intervene in the market. Behin bath gehiagotan eskatu disugu, eskatu diugu Gobernu honori alokairuaren prezioareen inguruan interbenitzea. Gogoeta hours Egypt age interbenitzea. Zuen weretzuna beti izan da konpetentziak ez zenituztela, which could not, that there was no competence to regulate the private rental market in Euskadi. Well, now, that preliminary draft, when it is approved in the Congress of Deputies, will allow, yes, the private rental market will be able to regulate. And you just said in another inquiry that you were asking and claiming... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... the private rental market will be able to be regulated. And you just said in another question that you were asking for and demanding concrete measures and proposals. Well, today, and through that new law that we call for to be developed and implemented here, we bring a concrete proposal. From Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we have fought for Euskadi and the whole state to have this new competition, as is a regulation of the prices of the private rental market. And quoting also the lehendakari this morning, the important thing in a coalition government, the relationship, is the relationship, but above all the practical meaning it has. We have demonstrated this in the state, and that is what we also ask the PNV-PSOE government here. You have also said that you are open to collecting concrete input and proposals. Therefore, today, through this inquiry, and certainly from the motion that we will present, we will ask you to regulate the rental prices in the terms that are set out in that preliminary draft law. On the basis of what was adopted in that preliminary draft law, tense areas of the housing market could be declared, and extraordinary measures could be taken to freeze, to contain the prices in the rents that were in the hands of the small owners. In addition, a system of tax incentives is proposed to encourage these small owners to lower private market prices for the rental of their homes, which will be complemented by measures already in place here in Euskadi, and which most, as I say again, support. And it will be possible to lower the prices in the houses of the vulture funds and of the large forks, that is, in which they have more than ten houses. Surely, my parliamentary group would have liked the Housing Act to go even further, but we have a reality. We have a new competition that Euskadi can use: that areas of the tense residential market can be declared, in article 18 of that preliminary draft law, when the costs of rent and basic supplies exceed more than 30% of the income of a family unit, and the rise in prices in that area acquires limits set by that law. And when, moreover, the public authorities – as it happens now because we do not have enough public housing for social rent – cannot meet that demand, they will be able to take these extraordinary measures. In addition, protection against evictions is also improved, and I hope that these improvements will also be implemented here in Euskadi through the role of the Basque Government and that agreement, also with the judiciary and municipal social services. So you were calling for concrete policies, concrete proposals; you were talking about the housing pact. I therefore ask you today what the Basque Government intends to do in order to regulate the private rental market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u141	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Martínez, in fact, last Tuesday the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda, together with the Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030, presented the preliminary draft law on the right to housing to the Council of Ministers for consideration at first reading. This is a first step, which initiates a process prior to the drafting of a final text, which will be taken back to the Council of Ministers for approval, and subsequent referral to the General Courts. It is a preliminary draft law that has a unique value for us, first of all, because the fact that an agreement has been reached in a matter as sensitive as housing, an agreement that can result from its parliamentary processing of Spain's first housing law in democracy, is, in itself, good news. Secondly, because it is quite clear that the rule will integrate different measures inspired by the housing policies that we are already developing in Euskadi. As you will recall, this step was already taken in Euskadi in June 2015, when we passed the Basque housing law. A pioneering and progressive law, promoted by the socialists, which has served as a reference in many respects to the preliminary draft of Spain and which, in others of great relevance, such as the recognition of subjective law, goes even further than the text being processed in Madrid. You ask me about the government's intentions, with a view to regulating the rental market in Euskadi. In Euskadi we have been intervening for years in the rental housing market, starting from the combination of different measures that act simultaneously on supply and demand. By the way, also the preliminary draft housing law of Spain, also guides the same spirit, and points out a battery of measures that seek to act from different fronts in an integral way. Since the transfer of powers in 1981, more than 104,000 officially protected dwellings have been built in Euskadi. And, since 2003, all the protected housing that is built retains the status of protected housing on a permanent basis. This decisive step has led to two out of every three of the approximately 76,000 privately owned or publicly owned public housing units currently in existence in the Basque Country to be permanently rated and thus to maintain their social role throughout their useful lives. The preliminary draft law does not go that far. Basic conditions are laid down at State level, defining a system of permanent public protection of protected housing, which is (...) on the floor qualified as a reserve, and in the rest of the cases a minimum period of disqualification of 30 years is fixed. In addition, in Euskadi, municipalities are required by law to reserve 40% of urban land, 75% of urban land, for the construction of protected housing. This means that, from the soil available to build in the future, that the... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... 75 per cent of the urbanizable land for the construction of protected housing. This means that, from the land available to build in the future, which is around 180,000 homes, more than 80,000 become public protection. The preliminary draft Spanish law provides for the possibility for urban legislation to establish a 30% reserve on urbanised land. But the real milestone of the housing policy in Euskadi has been, as I mentioned earlier, the adoption of the 2015 law that determines the social role of housing. We are the first, and one of the few communities, together with Navarra and Baleares, that recognizes the subjective right of citizens to decent housing if they lack the necessary economic resources to achieve one. This qualitative leap has turned access to decent housing into a right recognized by the law of rank similar to health, education or attention to dependence. And we have established the mechanisms to respond to this right by the Administration, preferably opting for social rental. To satisfy this subjective right, all the measures that we take by the Department are directed, in particular the increase in the public rental park through the new construction and the capture of uninhabited dwellings. In Euskadi, as you know, we have a public rental park that has already exceeded the number of 25,000 homes, of which 15,000 are managed by the Basque Government. It should also be remembered that 29% of the temporary protected housing ratings for rent throughout Spain correspond to Euskadi. And that we currently have in construction more than 2,200 homes and accommodation facilities for rent. In addition, we have stepped up our commitment to mobilize the stock of empty housing, through various programmes, especially the Bizigune programme, which already has more than 6,800 housing units. It is estimated that, in Euskadi, around 120,000 Basque households reside in a rental house, and that more than half of them have a public rent, either because they live in a house with a protected price or because they have help paying for the rent. There are other important issues in the preliminary draft, such as improving the regulation of the eviction procedure in vulnerable situations, to ensure effective and rapid communication between the judiciary and social services. In Euskadi, you know, we have an agreement in place with the General Council of the Judiciary and the Basic Social Services of the municipalities that carry out this work. Just a little bit. In the last eight years, the number of launches in Euskadi has increased from 5.2 per 10,000 inhabitants to three, 2.1 in what we have been doing since 2021. And we are the community with the smallest volume of launches per inhabitant of Spain. There are also measures on affordable rent in line with what we are working with here, as well as a strengthening of rehabilitation actions, which we are also doing here. As far as price regulation is concerned, the preliminary draft establishes a mechanism of exceptional character and limited in time, empowering local and regional administrations to intervene in the market through several lines of action. On the one hand, there is talk of tax incentives for individuals, of setting ceilings for private individuals and large forks. It will be necessary to see how all these issues are reflected in the final text of the law and how the autonomous communities and local entities are empowered to do so if they decide to do so. You know that the fundamental problem of Euskadi in this matter is the lack of housing supply. But I assure you that we will follow closely the development of the process of law to see in what and how it empowers us. Indeed, in this regard, to say that the Basque Government, through the Housing Department, has a proposal to fiscally encourage owners to keep their rents at reasonable prices, in line with the Euskadi benchmarks, and to penalize those who shoot upwards. This proposal was presented to the Tax Coordination Body in its day, and we hope that the outside parliaments will pick up the glove, because this is a nuclear issue that can help, and much, the regulation of rental prices. In any case, we understand that the law will serve to help clarify the scenario, by establishing a previously non-existent regulatory framework, which serves as a legal umbrella for the autonomous communities in the exercise of our competences in the field of housing, and which opens up new possibilities for action if we deem it necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u143	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u144	Yes, thank you. Luckily, I took off the first part of the word because, well, you've summed up the housing policy. And I appreciate it, but you've used the last minute to discuss my question or my interaction. And in that sense, what we ask for is that law, there is already an agreement between you and my alibi, and it has passed through the Minister Council, and will prove in Congress. We shall also see how all the other parties in this Chamber have an attitude with this project of laws. If our proposals, or if they are to be improved, well, we shall see them with respect, but what we ask of you is that we do what we ought to do. There is a tool, I have quoted, in Article 18. The rest of the policies that you have mentioned, I have already said at the beginning in a very short way, I say to make it clear again, that we support most of the policies that are being carried out on housing in Euskadi, and that, moreover, as you know well, although we then do not reach agreements on budgetary matters, that every year we introduce amendments to add to housing policy, amendments also to give more staff to the Department of Housing and that, generally, the one that poses problems to increase the number of housing items is not our group... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... to provide more staff to the Department of Housing and that, in general, it is not our parliamentary group that is the majority partner of this Government that poses problems in increasing the number of housing units. Therefore, what we, from our coalition today, want to see with this inquiry is that this preliminary draft law now has an article 18, which regulates how the declarations of the stressed rental housing market areas are to be developed, which is the fundamental tool for then being able to intervene in these extraordinary measures of price freezing and price lowering in the case of the big forks. Therefore, the interpellation remains the same. We hope that, through the motion that we are going to present, we can reach an agreement, because we think that the Basque Government has sufficient tools to put the work in place, to make the necessary technical studies, to use all the statistics that must be used to regulate, to declare those areas of the tense market, so that, at the moment that law comes into force and Euskadi has a new competition, Euskadi is more sovereign in order to be able to intervene in the private rental market and to be able to guarantee in a much more effective way the subjective right to housing that we have recognized in Euskadi... And, therefore, let us not waste time and arrive in time, so that when that law is in force we can apply it from the minute one in the large capitals of Euskadi, in the large municipalities of Euskadi, in the tourist municipalities of Euskadi which, obviously, with all the statistics that we have in hand, those of the Government and other statistics, meet the fundamental requirements for them to be declared as tense areas of the private rental market, and we can intervene, thus ensuring that prices can be frozen in the case of the housing of the small owners, and that even the price in the housing of the vulture funds, and also of the large holders, can be lowered. Nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u145	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u146	Mr Martinez, first of all, tell him that you know: the law is going to be optional, not tax. And it's in the exit box. In time, I do not want to run any more than the parliamentary procedure of the law itself. Don't get carried away by anxiety. Although I already know you won't listen to this advice. And he announced the introduction of a motion, before I even went out to make my speech in this rostrum. But, well... Secondly, I do not want to see it, at this point in my life, beginning to make a policy of a large scale, not in terms of housing or in any other matter. Euskadi's solvency in housing policy is precisely that, we have managed to distance ourselves from the noise and the blows of effect; and we have managed to combine a coherent policy. The promotion of new construction and the acquisition of empty housing, a comprehensive system of economic benefits, and the elaboration of rules that encourage idle rental and otherwise penalize, even reaching the expropriation of dwellings that do not fulfil their social function repeatedly. Euskadi has a social housing coverage that is not comparable in the rest of Spain. And that has not become a reference for the rest of the autonomous communities, and also for the Government of Spain, in view of the contents of the draft we know, the preliminary draft. I have said, on more than one occasion, that the realities of each territory differ and require the development of specific and contextualized housing policies. And you know that the real battle horse in Euskadi is the shortage of supply. Also, in our territory, the percentage of people who live on rent barely exceeds 12%. And that the landlords are, for the most part, private, people who have done themselves with the house, in most cases, thanks to their work or by inheritance from their parents. It's our reality. But make no mistake, do not understand that we do not value the preliminary draft law of the Government of Spain. On the contrary. We are convinced that a state housing law is absolutely necessary to give protection at all extremes to the autonomous communities and local entities, especially in the area of price regulation, a matter in which, as you know, we could not take, we can still take no action by touching upon the basic rules of the State. That is why I assure you that we will follow with great care the processing of the project; and we will carefully study its implementation, because there are measures in it that can be of interest to us if the market situation in Euskadi requires it. In this regard, I can announce that the next Housing Master Plan 2021-2023, the document that sets out the strategic lines of housing policy in Euskadi for the next few years, will include, in its content, the study, and, if necessary, implementation, taking into account the situation of the supply of rental housing in Euskadi, of the measures proposed in the State housing law applied to large tenants, to the extent that this bill can be passed in Congress. In the background, I believe, sincerely, that you and I agree on many things. Surely, in more than you think. That we share objectives and much of the philosophy that drives our housing policy. A philosophy that seeks nothing but to improve the conditions of access to housing for all citizens, so that they can enjoy this right with full guarantee. I also think the margin for improvement. That is why, Mr Martínez, I invite you to explore this margin of improvement in the negotiation of budgets, which will begin shortly, to speak with this government and to agree on measures that will allow us to further deepen the right to housing of all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-29.u147	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Since we have run out of theme list... The meeting ended at one and fifty-six.
