ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the subject list, I remember that 32 lords and ladies have inherited their vote. Preceding theme: "To claim the delegation of the Basque Congress to be sent to Congress by the US Congress to present a Bill of Compensation for the victims of America." We shall nominate the delegation of the Basque Congress to present the legal proposal to Congress. By Article 231.1 of the Rule, this representation may have at most three legislatures. If there is no inconvenience in it, I propose to commend it by consent, that the representation should be made up of three legislative members. As for the completion of the three, three candidates have been presented. And therefore I shall set before you, according to other precedents, to approve of their appointment with assent. Otherwise, we should vote. So if there's no problem, then... I see you don't... It is admitted that the three will be the following: Miss Gloria Sánchez, Mrs. Eve Blanco and Mr. Jon Arenz. First point in theme list: "Provide the proposal as well as possible by the parliamentary teams, in order to be protected as many citizens as possible, and to get the team unit as fast as possible around changing the insertion strategy. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. The Representative of the EH Group has the word. Mrs. Ubera, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u1	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Mr. President, Mrs. Mountain, Mrs. Cendui, good morning to all. I have read a great deal of them lately, and heard them say that to-morrow it would have to be inserted as if there were no days. The people were de vanunar como si no hubiera un mañana. They repeat it over and over. We agree with this expression, but we are far from it. We're going very slow and very badly. We're also leaving the weakest citizens behind when we should put the weakest ones in the first row. At this moment, the crypt's against the virus is a vaccine, and saving vaccine means risking life. And our first duty is to save lives, to protect the population, I suppose we all agree with it, don't we? We have in our hands a serious question of public health, a pandemy, and it must be answered in a collective manner, and, to answer them in a collective manner, as soon as possible and as short as possible, we ought to include most of the people as possible. And that should be our goal, and it should be that, Mrs. Cedui, you should have had the purpose of getting a potential team protection. At this moment, it is far more important than to get the 100-year-old imm units of the individual, even if it's in a lower degree, to get the power of team protection so that it can be protected by the weaker. And this doesn't mean that the individual's immunity shouldn't be made at 100 percent, but at this moment it's urgent, fast, quick, insert, and start the first dose as fast as possible. Eta honekin ez dugu esan nahi bigarren dosage jarri behar ez denik. But the first dose must be prioritized, inoculated as the doses arrive. It doesn't make much sense to keep vaccines right now. No, at least in the amount in which they are stored. So far there has been no stock breach, and when there has been some problem, it has been solved quite quickly. So, if the Government wants to keep some, it can keep some little bits, but not in the amount that keeps them. It is time to protect people, and above all to protect the most vulnerable. It is therefore time to accelerate, accelerate and prioritize vaccination with Pfizer and Moderna, since they are used to vaccinate the most vulnerable people. It's time to be brave. It's the courage we're asking, to make quick decisions, and, besides making quick decisions, to run fast. He sees scientific evidence, and it is becoming more and more general; though it is true that there is no influence on the transmission of the vius. But it is reality, in the countries in which they are advanced in grafts, that the reflection of which is Israel, is that they are visible, but the results are visible even in the old men's houses; shouldn't it not go far? Otherwise, it's our danger, and what's more and more obvious is that the virus anticipates us and new variations prevail. See what happened to British variant. And now we're in a very delicate moment. Of course, it's not enough to face new variations that we are grafted on. it would have to be co-ordinated and co-ordinately connected in the world's level of life to deal with the reverses. And, of course, it's not enough only with vaccine, but it won't be enough until the situation's normalized, and we need other measures. We need him, among other things: the fact that the movement is as small as possible, that the accumulations, the strong groups of trackers and research, the siftings between the primary and the population, the chronogram and the goals, we need Osa-and so on-but that's what we talked about yesterday at the committee, and I won't go deep. It's obvious that we're going after her in the insertion campaign as well as in the pandemos' management. We follow Madrid in the course of the decisions that Madrid has made, copy the base frame or the decisions that we have chosen and not according to the reality of our society. And that's got us trouble. And you will say, but what are these questions? You see, under each collective list, a number of sub-groups were not predicted, and in some cases many collectives have been forgotten. In the beginning, they had a disabilities, and the people who had the institutionalized were neglected; we had to move, and in the end they had been grafted. It was the same with those who have great dependence and live on weights, or who work in villages for domestic aid service, or are getting on with minors and guardians who have great dependence, or even within the fire departments with firemen. I continue, I continue with what we're seeing in the insertion campaign. Look, it's not understandable, EAE is not meant to be the last train in state class; it's not understandable when there's media in state 83,4, at least yesterday, we raised the score, and we sat down from 73 to 77. It's not easy to understand. And we do not like to compare with Spain, but you have a great tendency to compare it with Spain, so that the comparisons should be made in good and evil. And you see in the state class that vaccinations are put in proportion as they arrive, and not here. In the state, too, when the clerks had been grafted in, not yet here, and had to be mobilized to put on the vaccine. It's true that we'd been pretty neat or rather decent to put old men and workers in the hotels. What happened to 100 years old doesn't even have a name. The health department didn't want to cooperate with other institutions' resources at first. At last, when he saw himself obliged, he began to work with the resources of the aldunciations, though late. And at last he saw himself forced to intervent. What shall I tell you about the formation to put a vaccination? So, from one day to another, and such a manner of formation. The boss over 65 is behind us. They're standing on the road, just to be on the front line. In over 80 years, according to the data in the Ministry, and even at the age of 80, we're the last ones who've received a dose. Police, civil guards, borderers... they are by default compared to the pitiful collectives. Besides, police and civil guards are not our rights, and prison officials aren't ours. Got the data from yesterday, from the Ministry and the EAE bulletins, we've got 64.375 vaccines that we don't have. Following the current rate, we'd get 70% of the population in 2024. So the problem isn't just what we'd like less than the amount of vaccine we'd like. The problem is, the amount of vaccine that comes only to us is limited. The problem is that the government has no ability to get speedy vaccines. The problem is that the government has no aptitude. Of course, if we could get more, better! Of course. But instead of throwing out responsibility or guilt, or always looking out, it's what the government should do, check it, check it... and he would discover that it is a long time to improve, and improve the planning. No schedules. It's all been an improv. And, of course, there's an improvisation in such situations, and it's normal and it's just an improvisation, but it's within a basic planning. There was a chance from September to arrange our insides while the vaccines arrived: how to make protocols, how to make distributions, to make decisions... And it didn't. Everything that hadn't been prepared, and that's what brought the power of darkness. And this, besides deconfusion, had at first been irregularity, and the chaos and decontrol prevailed in the EAE insertion campaign. So, apart from the proposals we make on the Wednesday committee, we had a convenient view of the proposal we have today to discuss, in order to speed up the insertion, to place the weakest in the first row, in order not to endanger life, because that's what we're talking about. Because vaccine that doesn't exist is a life that risks. And what do we plan? What we're planning is rethinking scientific community strategy. It's nothing else, isn't it? A reposition. And for what purpose, this reorganculation? First dose to confirm. And in as short a time as possible, in order to be protected as many citizens as possible and to obtain a potential team protection. We're also asking for a schedule and a chronogram with possible scenarios. It has been shown that AstraZenec is necessary in the affair. The government told us there was a plot of complicity. We asked for it, and it's seen there's no contact plan. It's been seen. We're also asking for more than 60 years, weak citizens, pathological, chronic... as fast as you can and as urgently insert it. And that's why you know it's necessary to speed up the Pfizer and Modern insertion. We ask for more hands in formation, more forming, putting them in an incubation campaign, interacting with one another, and also giving the nurses the opportunity. That's our proposition, in short, what we get. And it's a shame: I'm sorry I didn't get an agreement today. There are other reasons, which may be legitimate, though there are differences in the contents, and I shall not enter into them. But I hope, for everyone's own good, that the discussion today is a push. And beyond the discussion of the stratums that might be, based on evidence, based on the scientific community, the need for a speedy insertion, urgently! With all the means, with all the means, because there are lives in the game, to begin to see the exit by degrees from this long tunnel of the pandemia, although we shall still have to take it calmly, even though there will be more and more advanced vacations in the April, because we need time to normalize the situation. But at least we lose as little life as possible on the way. That's why it's important to speed up the insertion. Because we're not numbers, we're not numbers. And there's time for us to start breaking up numbers that have been normalized and see the faces, eyes, and smile of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Hernandez, who represents the Podemos-Nozzer, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u3	Yes, thank you, good morning, everyone. Good morning, congressmen. Of course, the objective, the final objective, which Mrs Ubera explained, I think is shared – I imagine – by all the groups. And, of course, it's shared by our group. The arrival of vaccination has become a challenge, a global challenge, far beyond, of course, Euskadi. The goal is to accelerate the vaccination curve to immunize millions of people in record time. A scientific, logistical and medical challenge never before met on a global scale. It is true – we agree on this – that the speed of vaccination is an important, very important element, to ensure as soon as possible that group immunity and to ensure that as many people as possible are protected. We agree with this, and we have also been explaining this in the various health committees that we are doing this every week in this Parliament. But we also think that... we have to say that with the passing of the weeks, the months already, it has been shown that the biggest bottleneck of vaccination in Spain are the doses received. And we here have to point out multinational pharmaceutical companies. It seems to us that we cannot talk about this without at least pointing out this issue: the multinational pharmaceutical companies with which the European Union had signed the contracts for the purchase of vaccines. We cannot talk about this, not to mention them. The European Union has shown its great weakness in defending public health against the power of large pharmaceutical corporations. Once again, it's the market, folks! Yesterday we knew the last chapter, with the 30 million doses that AstraZeneca had in Italy, destined, possibly – I would say almost certainly – to the United Kingdom, when it failed to comply with its vaccine delivery agreements with the European Union. We know that what's taking precedence, again, is that the payer is in charge. A great deal of public money has been invested in the research and development of the vaccines we are receiving. However, when it comes to accessing them in order to be able to vaccinate the population, we are only a customer in a market where demand exceeds supply. And this has to be said, and it has to be denounced. And we denounced it prior to the debate on the vaccination campaign in Euskadi, because it is directly related to the vaccination rhythms. We, as I said before, recognize that the rate of vaccination is a very important issue. And we have been demanding – the parliamentarians who come to the Health Committee will have heard it – as quickly as possible. Because here we do have a difference with the first point of the proposal group's initiative, the EH Bildu group. While we know that this debate is taking place in the scientific community, about the desirability of inoculating the first dose also in these types of vaccines – RNA vaccines, which need that second dose –... We know that this debate is taking place, but we think that, at this time and until the scientific community finally adopts a change of position, until the health oversight agencies change the criteria, until the vaccine instructions are changed, the wise thing is to follow the recommendations that with these vaccines... or that these vaccines are paired with regard to the programming and planning of the second vaccine. But we also think that there has been bad planning in Euskadi. This is something that we have heard too. And that, on more than one occasion, the Basque Government has also shielded itself in the supply of vaccines to justify what has been a poor planning of the vaccination campaign and has also impacted on a rate of vaccination that is being slower than in other communities in the state. And we wouldn't want to turn this into a race between communities for the speed of vaccination, but it does show us that, with the same supplies of vaccines, we could have carried out another type of more accelerated vaccination campaign. However, for us, the most important thing is the planning of the vaccination campaign; because, as I say, the reserve of RNA vaccines, if it is planned and what it seeks is to guarantee that second dose, if the numbers square, that have not always squared... if the numbers square and the strategic reserve is to plan and guarantee that second dose, we, while the health indications are those, will not challenge it. However, we have been denouncing that campaign planning has been bad. It has been a campaign to vaccinate trompicones, with news and flares almost every week. And that has caused many problems and many dysfunctions. There are specific groups that have been vaccinated later than should have been vaccinated according to vulnerability criteria. Because, if we remember, when the vaccination campaign began, the big phrase was: first the most vulnerable. And this has been the general criterion. But there have been many concrete failures in specific groups. And that has been for bad planning, for insufficient planning, for groups, for subgroups... And not everything can be justified by the vaccines received, which we know they influence, and so we have recognized. But there have been too many failures. Also with regard to vaccines inoculated to professionals working in close contact with covid patients. That is what we have denounced on more than one occasion. Finally, the vaccination of ambulance professionals has already been carried out. I also denounced it in this plenary: it made no sense for us to have administrative professionals, for example, from Osakidetza, without any contact with covid patients, vaccinated, and ambulance workers with direct contact with covid patients and, as we said, also in areas that are called hostile, without vaccination. Therefore, yes, there has been bad planning; yes, there has been improvisation. And in that, we, of course, are going to stay, and, above all, we thought – and we also expressed it yesterday in the Health Committee – that we are at a good time to replan. Our initiative, our amendment to the whole, which has points in common with the part of the initiative of the proposer group, relating to the following points from the first, goes in this direction, to urge the government to better planning, to more detailed planning, which, as we have said on more than one occasion and I will not tire of defending, we know that they have to be dynamic – we do not demand anything else – we know that it depends on many external factors – one of them is obviously the supply of vaccines – but we think that there has to be more detailed planning and that it is possible. Because, in that planning, many things have failed. We, therefore, talk about planned timing – if you can schedule it; schedule it in a planned way – that we know then it has to be dynamic, and that is why we add "based on the availability of vaccines", because these things, protocols, distribution circuits of vaccines, involved agents, working methodology... They've been changing, and they've failed. Occupational health methodology, the specific distribution of vaccines by OSI and collectives to be vaccinated; because, moreover, the poor planning of this issue is also what has allowed, at the time, those cases of irregular vaccinations, which we have discussed and which, in our opinion, have not been sufficiently clarified. For these reasons, we cannot support the initiative of the proposing group. It is true that, beyond point one, we do agree with the rest of the initiative; we would also have no problem voting for it on points if the proposing group agreed. But, in principle, we are going to maintain our initiative, which is more in the line of challenging or asking the Basque Government to plan the vaccination campaign better or in more detail; to ensure the highest possible rate of vaccination, because it is true that it is a scientific element, the rate of vaccination is important, but without questioning the guarantee of that second dose in certain vaccines, RNA vaccines, at least as long as the criteria of the scientific community do not change. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u4	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Popular Group-Ciudad, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, good morning. We are again discussing this matter with the proposal proposed. And we know also that the process of grafting must be accelerated, and that at this moment there must be a preference. And so we have expressed ourselves several times in this tribal, as well as in the committee. Yesterday we told the chief physician that's how it should be. And it seems as if, from the results we have, it is not so, and from this point of view, it is necessary to reflect, and to direct precise measures. And so, in our proposal, we have presented a number of exact measures. It is clear that everything that surrounds the vaccination process is in uncertainty, not only because of the vaccination process itself and the slowness of it – which leads us to be one of the last communities to vaccinate, in relation to the rest of the autonomous communities, as the proposer of the initiative, Mrs. Ubera, has pointed out – but that we currently have only 3.3% of the total population of the Basque immunized population, which leads us to fail to meet the goal that former Minister Illa – and shared by the health adviser herself, Mrs. Sagardui – has already pointed out – of immunizing the whole population – 70% of the population, let alone – for the summer. I think this deserves reflection, this situation, this fact, and it shows that again in Basquedi, as I said, things are not being done well and that it suffers from the plan necessary to have faced this vaccination process with the right guarantees, and also with the necessary transparency in relation to all the information in the vaccination process, collectives to be vaccinated, not only groups following the recommendations of the Public Health Commission at national level, but also by virtue of the powers we have in planning any vaccination process. There are many inexplicable issues – yesterday I also had the opportunity and this group had the opportunity to speak to the counselor herself –: we do not understand, for example – as was also published yesterday in several media – what happened with the doses of some vaccines, which are received in one week 14,800 new units, for example, from the Modern Vaccine, of which half had to be administered if we met the criterion that half is reserved – which we could also discuss in relation to this issue, but we will understand that it could be logical to reserve half, i.e. 7,400 – but then we see the data and see that only 3,567 of those 14,800 new units were placed. This concrete fact – we could add and highlight others – clearly shows that things are not being done well in relation to the vaccination process. We also agree that the best recipe at the moment, both for our health and for our economy, is undoubtedly to accelerate or speed up the vaccination process and to vaccinate the largest Basque population as quickly as possible. And this isn't happening, and there we have the vaccination figures. Everything that has surrounded the vaccination process from the beginning is clear that it has given the feeling that there are many doubts about it; there have been no clear criteria, there has been no plan and planning of the vaccination process itself. We claim it through an initiative, and we also claim that vaccination plan in relation to the Basque population awaiting vaccination, which we will be clear about, because it seems that the criteria remain unclear. And I also say this because of the disconcerting nature of the Basque population and, in particular, the group of people aged 80 and over, who do not understand that people between 86 and 89 years old are being called to be vaccinated and are being vaccinated, and that people between 80 and 85 years old have not yet been called. We do not know the criteria that are being followed in relation to the group of people over 80 years of age, but what we are certainly seeing is that discrimination is taking place in relation to the prioritization that the Basque Government itself and the Department of Health had established and set, first, to vaccinate those over 85 years of age, and then to go down, for five years, to 80 years of age and thereafter. Nor do we know the criteria to be followed with chronic patients or especially vulnerable people for suffering from very serious diseases. We... Finally, it seems that a particularly vulnerable group is also being vaccinated, such as those dependent on non-institutionalized grades three, those dependents who are not in residences, older people who are dependent on them who are in their homes with a caregiver or people with a degree of disability who need a caregiver. For us this was an absolutely priority issue, and we have to say that there has clearly been a lot of leave in relation to this group, and I have repeatedly expressed this to the adviser herself in the weekly appearances. As has also been said here, there are many collectives that in the rest of the autonomous communities have been vaccinated before that in Euskadi; that is a fact: we could quote emergency workers, we could quote pharmacists themselves, we could also quote health care workers... In other autonomous communities, health care workers have been vaccinated before they have been vaccinated in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. I therefore believe that it is clear that the feeling that has been given by the Basque Government in managing the vaccination process has been a feeling of some chaos, of disorder, of lack of planning... and has plunged the population into uncertainty and logical concern, and that we share. Therefore, in view of this initiative, which coincides with many of the points that have been included in it, we believe that it is necessary to eliminate the opacity of the vaccination process; we again call for this comprehensive and rigorous plan in relation to the population or population groups that are still awaiting vaccination, as I said earlier, by establishing a priority order of the same and specifying the specific groups that are included in each of the groups. On the other hand, it seems absolutely necessary to us also – and here there has also been a certain sense of improvisation – in relation to what we know, or a certain forecast, even if there may be flexibility, of the human and material resources we can count on. I do not think it is acceptable to be told that 25 vaccination points are granted and at two weeks we are informed 117, that is, it is a rather quantitative leap, which is obviously due to the lack of a plan and a clear forecast or criteria in relation to these issues. It seems that there is also an intention to enable large spaces, but neither do we have great news on this issue and how the resources, also personal, that are going to be necessary to proceed to the vaccination also of large population groups, which is what is going to correspond now and more when the vaccination with AstraZeneca has resumed and can also reach the age of 65. We also call on the Basque Government to speed up the rate of vaccination, but, apart from that, also to vacate and not to stop the vaccination on weekends or holidays that come now with Holy Week; we believe that this is absolutely priority if we want to catch a train that has long escaped us. And on the other hand – and I am finishing – we believe that it is also necessary to strengthen the epidemiological surveillance service at a key moment. We believe that we are not adequately counting on technicians and epidemiologists and people who really know about this issue, something we do not understand, so we have been brought here. We also know that there is a confusion between health professionals themselves, who tell us that the decisions and criteria that are set do not flow properly and that there is a gap between the criteria and the orders that are marked (or the guidelines) from the Department of Health and Osakidetza itself and how they reach the practitioners themselves and the health personnel who have to implement these criteria. Finally, we believe that it is also appropriate to strengthen all the training of the staff involved in the vaccination process. With regard to the amendments tabled, of course, along the lines maintained by the groups supporting the Government, we believe that the amendment tabled is insufficient; there is no self-criticism, no reflection or any new proposal regarding any change in the strategy that has been followed by the Basque Government. And in relation to the other two proposals, we agree with some of the questions that arise, with others not: to tell Mr Hernández...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u6	Please finish. ... – and I am finishing – that I believe that the differences that have been manifested were salvable, and I regret that no effort has been made in that regard, by the group of Podemos, and I will refer to other issues in the reply. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u7	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u8	Thank you, Madam President. The Socialists share the need to accelerate the rate of vaccination as much as possible. And it is so important to have one thing as clear as the other, because it is true that we all have to adjust the vaccination processes to speed up the process of getting to immunization as soon as possible, but it is also true that these adjustments must be made to the safety parameters that we must stick to within a process that has evolved and that will continue to evolve, according to, for example, the number of vaccines that we have on the market, according to the number of doses that will come to us from the European Union, and also according to the new scientific evidence that we can have on those vaccines. Evidence blacked out, among other things, in the recommendations of the WHO and the European Medicines Agency. We are not alien to the concern that the vaccination process is causing in certain groups, and therefore, to the extent of our possibilities, we want to contribute to creating no more doubts, but as many certainties as possible, because the fact is that in the vaccination process there are very varied, come about and even unpredictable circumstances. We saw him last week. Accepting this must not be an excuse for there to be – which exists – a clear strategy and protocols, which try to cover the greatest number of situations and avoid any misadjustment. But accepting this, which is a reality, can only lead us to a logical conclusion: this strategy, here and elsewhere, must be a strategy that will continue to be adapted and concrete, as we are counting on more certainty and also as we are counting on more vaccines. On 3 March, in the Health Committee, the department announced its intention to inoculate all doses coming from AstraZeneca by allowing that vaccine to extend the second dose to a period of 12 weeks. This decision was to dispense with 43% of the already known and famous strategic reserve intended to guarantee the second dose, and involved a quantitative leap that allowed us to considerably accelerate the rate of vaccination. But, as you all know, the pace was again affected by a new contingency, the decision of a large part of the European Union countries to paralyse the inoculation with AstraZeneca until the EMA, the European Medicines Agency, ruled on the safety of this vaccine, in relation to the various cases of thrombus that had appeared. And I am sure that, around this issue, we could have a political debate here as to whether this answer was exaggerated or not, even we could agree quite well. But the truth is that the different public health commissions in the countries chose prudence. Solving these issues, we agree on the need to now make an effort to recover the rate of vaccination that we were able to achieve just before the stoppage. And I think it is also appropriate to use this forum to launch a message of confidence and safety in vaccines and, especially in this case, in AstraZeneca, which, as the adviser pointed out yesterday, has been defined as safe and effective by the European Medicines Agency. And after extending the age limit for this vaccine in the interterritorial council and allowing it to be extended to other groups, I think we have a good opportunity to make progress on the common goal of getting immunization as soon as possible. How? Well, if we have a reality that is changing, the only way is through a vaccination strategy that is adapting precisely to that changing reality. A strategy that, as it could not otherwise be, must comply with a main objective (adjust the processes to accelerate vaccination and reach immunization as soon as possible), but always within the parameters of scientific safety and certainty of which I spoke at the beginning of my intervention, following the priorities established by the Public Health Commission of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System. But also that it adapts to the number of vaccines we are receiving and that it respects the leaflets of the vaccines themselves, as recommended by the EMA. And that is simply what the amendment we have tabled says, because there have been very diverse issues here today, but they can and must be addressed in accordance with these parameters, basically because, as much as we want any of us, I, the first, can have a political opinion, but I think we will all agree that, on the issue of vaccines, it is best to have scientific opinion. There are issues that we share and that have already been working on, such as ensuring universality and equity, without creating any discrimination between patients living in urban or rural areas or having difficulty leaving the home; expanding coordination with areas of work prevention; continuing to take account of the process of vaccination with transparency; continuing to implement the training processes, or the staffing reinforcement that has been done since the beginning of the pandemic. But there are other things that, from our point of view, deserve some clarification; for example, to suggest that the Basque Government discuss with the scientific community the possibility of prioritizing the first doses, even at the cost of delaying the second. I can tell you that this debate already exists, already exists in the EMA; but, today, the recommendation remains to ensure the second dose, and in addition, in the time frame that the pharmaceuticals themselves mark in the package leaflet of the vaccines themselves. And this is reflected in the vaccination strategy agreed by all the autonomous communities in the Interterritorial Council. Therefore, the scientific debate is already taking place where it should be. And if the EMA endorses it and recommends it, I have no doubt that it will be transferred to the Spanish vaccination strategy and, with that, to the Basque vaccination strategy. But until then we have the obligation, the obligation!, to ensure the second doses to our citizens, to ensure total immunization. Another issue raised by various groups is the establishment of a specific timetable for the vaccination of each group of citizens. And to me, sincerely, it draws attention to the fact that it is even pointed out in what week it is for them. It draws my attention because it's simply impossible today. Firstly, because the supply of vaccines is changing week by week, throughout the European Union, also here in Euskadi. Secondly, because new collectives are being added to the various updates of the vaccination strategy against COVID-19 in Spain in the various stages of vaccination, as in the other countries of the European Union. And that is precisely why there are no temporary references, because they will obviously depend on all these factors. I think it is important to start from a principle of reality, especially in order not to generate frustrations. Euskadi has its protocol, as is the case with the rest of the autonomous communities. But these protocols are aligned with the strategy of vaccination against COVID-19 in Spain, and they are all subject to change. All of them, from all the autonomous communities. And none of them sets closed and unchanging timetables or priority orders for groups and groups, nor those of the autonomous communities where some groups that today ask for it rule. Because it also affects them whether new vaccines are incorporated or not, or the doses that end up coming. What we can do is get to work with what we have, and thus recover the rate of vaccination. And, for example, set the target of pinching more than 50,000 doses from yesterday to next Wednesday, as well as starting next week with the opening of the general population campaign of up to 65 years with AstraZeneca, but knowing, yes, that for the time being the quantities that reach us from the laboratories are still insufficient to achieve a high rate of vaccination. Something that can change from the month of April, if, for example, Pfizer fulfills the promise of sending 1.2 million prophylaxis a week to Spain during that month. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u9	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u10	Madam de Table, chief of departments, fellow members of the legislature, good days to all. This debate was already held on 18 February. And although I know that the Bureau cannot be in everything – they are very busy – I think it is appropriate to remember it, more than anything if someone blames me for lack of originality and repetition in my arguments. But it's not my fault: the same debate, the same argument. I have no body to investigate in my reflective depths, to try to be original. It is also true that this debate took place in a more clumsy atmosphere than we have enjoyed these days, although I do not trust it at all, given certain tactics that this will continue for a long time. The justification for this GNP is that scientific evidence is becoming increasingly clear, especially in the last two weeks, that the first dose of vaccines offers a high level of protection. Previously, in the same paragraph, it is stated that the scientific community around the world and those responsible for public health are currently engaged in a debate on the most effective vaccination strategy against COVID-19. Let's see, either they're debating or they're demonstrating. And, as they strive to bring technical-scientific debates to a forum preferably of political debate, we are going to enter into science, but that will make us bored as oysters to the competition. I will summarise the scientific reflections, for example, of Dr. Altmann, who, after publishing an article in Science Immunology – he is an immunologist at Imperial College in London – says, exactly: "When the immune system is for the first time in a vaccine, it activates two types of white blood cells: first, plasma B cells, which focus mainly on producing antibodies. These cells are short-lived and, even if they fill the body with antibodies for a week, without the second injection, usually go into decline. They are then the IT cells, each of which is designed to identify a specific pathogen and kill it. Some of these IT cells, such as memory IT, can remain in the body for decades until they are met with their target, which means that sometimes immunity to infections can last for life. The important thing is that there will usually not be many IT cells until the second dose of the vaccine is applied." And it goes on: "Therefore, the booster dose is a way to re-exposure the body to the antigens to start the second part of the response. In fact – he continues, eh? – and with vaccines that have already been very experienced and that have been managed to study for decades, such as the MMR (salapion, rubella, mumps), which is given to babies from all over the world, it is known scientifically that about 40% of those who receive a single dose are not protected from the three viruses, which happens only with 4% of those who receive the two doses." Finish your appointment. The truth is that, in any case, there are tastes for all colors, because the same thing I told you about the previous article, I found another one in the New England Journal of Medicine, by Dr. Skowronski, who points out that a single dose of Pfizer grants 92% of this immunity. This article was a replica of another previous article by Dr. Polack, who demonstrated that with one dose the efficacy was 54%. This, yeah, is my studio, too. Analyzing the two studies, and the debate between the two authors, I have concluded that, in any case, very little time was taken to begin vaccination, on 31 December and 20 January, and they were made with very small samples, not more than 20 or 30 people. Having said that, I myself can conclude that, at the moment, there is no scientific evidence. That these are given when there is enough data and experienced time, which, for the time being, is not given in the VOCID-19 vaccines, which started to be used, more or less, four or five months ago. If parliamentary work is to ask the Department of Health for certain strategies based on scientific criteria, we turn this room into an epidemiology classroom. But let us do so seriously, with scientific criteria and theories endorsed by solvent scientific personnel, and not by statements in different media of expert, or supposedly expert personnel, of whom we only know the title and the position it has, but of whom we do not know the curriculum or its publications. This is what they have situations like this: science is agitated and precipitated, because it finds a way to increase the catalogue of publications of each one, but not all publications have equal values. And I personally don't think I can differentiate these scientific values. I only know that what is approved by the drug agencies is the double dose, because on the double dose the trials have been done and, for the time being, they have not changed the criteria. That I don't say they won't, and if they do, I'll trust your decision. Therefore, in the face of scientific doubt and, therefore, of the lack of scientific evidence, the logical thing is to continue to vaccinate according to the recommendations of those who, in our understanding, are those who know, who are not other than the drug agencies and the Public Health Commission of the Interterritorial Council; which is what our amendment says. We can discuss science here and each refer to its sources and curricula, but everything will be empty, it will bring nothing, it will be a waste of time... Because the forum of those who know about this particular epidemic and these specific vaccines is where I point them out. Let's trust them; let's not play druids, and let's stop talking about what the guy says in this paper, Mengana on this TV... There are official scientific bodies that are made for this. Well, let's work on what they tell us. You are, Mrs Ubera, committed to changing the government's approach to reserve the second dose, in order to speed up vaccination, possibly. But do you know for sure that a single dose protects with sufficiency? Do you know with scientific certainty? If so, bring the data here, if not, if it is only a speculation of a potential protection, it seems better to be discreet and not to speculate in this forum, and less to say that putting fewer vaccines kills; that that is speculative, populist and causes confusion. And here we are to help, at least me. And on the other hand, can you guarantee that every week the doses of vaccine that we have been told will arrive? I think that you cannot assure us, that you cannot guarantee it, and that is why it is better to keep the guarantee of the second dose, even if that leads to a certain delay in full vaccination. Although, really, it's not that much. On a assumption that 1,000 vaccines arrive per week and that the second dose is put at two weeks. At the end of three, a community that puts all would have 1,000 complete vaccines, and another 1,000 with one dose. While Euskadi, who saves half, at least the Pfizer and Modern, would have 500 complete and 1,000 with one dose... Man, it's also not to rub your hair, also guaranteeing the second dose, since it has not been one or two or three communities that have had to delay that second dose due to lack of vaccines or have delayed those who had called for the first dose, due to that lack of vaccines. From that point on, you ask the Government to develop a planning and vaccination schedule as concrete as possible, noting, in addition, a catalogue of measures to be considered in designing the strategy. You know – because you have been answered, moreover, from the department – that there is a vaccination strategy with priorities for the different occupations, professions and ages, which is being rigorously met. And they sent it to him. But all that depends on the vaccines coming in and the characteristics of each one of them. And without entering into the multitude of measures that it requires, I will focus on the request that a timetable be made on which week will each vascus and vascus receive the vaccine in the worst possible scenario. But, knowing that a few weeks comes, the next, that sometimes comes for supply, that every week the protocols or target populations are changed, that it is not known when the new vaccines contracted by the EU will arrive, that sometimes the vaccination for serious side effects of some of them is paralyzed, and another multitude of situations, do you think it is possible that each of us may know when we are going to be vaccinated? In any case, I can already tell you: in the worst possible scenarios, in two years or never, because seeing what's going on I'm also not going to rule out that factories will explode one day. There is a plan, there is an order being fulfilled, depending on the arrival of vaccines and other adversities that are happening. Trust, as most citizens trust, that vaccination will be carried out in accordance with the established order and already known to all. It can be discussed whether the pace is better or worse than expected, whether a collective should be sooner or later. But to discuss not giving the second dose is to play scientists, for whom we don't even have the famous course cited by that famous judge. And to pretend to have a strict schedule of vaccinations, due to the instability of supplies and the heterogeneity of the characteristics of the vaccine, is to ask to make an unusable document within 24 hours, which, by the way, will generate false hopes and also frustration. And we are no longer to add more frustrations to those we have been having. That is why it seems more useful and more real to ask the Government to carry out vaccination in accordance with the priorities set out in the Public Health Commission, which are, I insist, those who know. And depending on the availability of vaccines, which are the ones that can be put. Look, Rousseau already said: "It is a very necessary forecast to understand that it is not necessary to predict everything." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u11	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. The next round of the band that hasn't issued any corrections, Miss Mist, Mrs Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u12	Thank you, Madam President. As Mr Telleria rightly recalled, on 18 February, Vox brought to this House a motion calling on the Basque Government for a clear and precise vaccination protocol, which, five weeks later, remains shone by its absence. And that's because the parties that support this executive are committed to not recognizing even the most obvious mistakes. For example, they are also committed to delivering on a pandemic, which they focus on as an opportunity, and not as a nightmare that has to be faced with all that is at hand. They also obviate the opposition's proposals, in this case including those of Vox. This debate could have been resolved more than a month ago, but then the opposition parties, the Podemos-Bildu coalition, did not even discuss that motion; because the important thing is to profile, and not to solve the real problems of citizenship. Your argument, gentlemen, is pathetic: Vox is only looking for chrispation. Is that what you expect in this House today? Crispar, or that once and for all this government assumes its responsibility and responds to a claim that begins to be a clamor? In Vox we have said this as active and passive: we defend a national health system. We also defend him more vigorously, after the disastrous results of his state of autonomy have been confirmed. This dance of protocols, restrictive measures, descalations, even vaccination campaigns. Although, in this case, it is rather a campaign model of the majority and another, the Basque. For example, a citizen of Castile-La Mancha breathes much more relieved because there he has been betting on inoculating the first dose to the best people, following the advice of experts who endorse high levels of immunization only with that first dose. If that citizen lived in Euskadi, he would continue to wait, because this Government has made the reservation of its doses its particular sign of identity. To vacate the best, to do so in a clear order, of which, in addition, citizens have all the data, a protocol that includes all groups of persons considered necessary to establish. A social information campaign to combat growing mistrust. Same criteria, here and in the rest of our country. Anyone in this House should agree with all this. But nothing further from reality. For example, yesterday, the counselor – since you are here, I take advantage of it – asked you what group the lung transplants are in, perhaps one of the most vulnerable groups against this virus. You don't know, do you? Neither do we. Here there is a lot of responsibility and even more self-criticism. Vaccines are the hope for millions of people, and this Government is playing with them. I repeat, I recall that this chapter could have been settled more than a month ago. But above all, it is a political profile, even if it is contrary to the interests of its voters and also of ours. We are very clear about our role in this House: to defend the interests of Basque citizens. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the proposals brought to debate by any of the political groups represented here. That is why I say to you that we are left with the dignity that you lack. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u13	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing on the turn of the answers, the Representative of the EH Collectors, Mrs. Ubera, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u14	Well... We are required to bring forward proposals, and Mrs. Cedui says she is ready to examine the proposals. And we make them. We get wet, we're getting wet from the beginning of the pandemy, we're studying it with the scientific community, we're bringing it back, based on scientific evidence. We're not limited to criticism, because we think... and because it would be more convenient for us, but because we think that the moment demands wet, wetting ourselves together. The other thing is, the government doesn't want to get us all wet. But it's allowed. And we'll continue, as long as the situation demands, bringing all kinds of suggestions. You see, it's no use now to bring up discussions about the pretty ones that didn't go before pandemy. It's necessary, isn't it? If we had a public pharmaceutical industry, if we'd had patents francized, if we'd put them in the market. Yes, of course. All these things must be done, and from now on we must learn something and solve this by the time we leave the pandemia. But now we must answer with the means we hold in our hands. And we have to make decisions. It's time to make decisions, fast, bold, and quick to run. Look... The scientific community and scientific evidence are vaccinating as fast as possible. That is the strategy of scientific community and scientific evidence. But the problem is not about strategy. Even apart from the strategy, it's a problem, even if you keep vaccines, that the management he's doing isn't right, that he's a bad management, that vaccine doesn't get fast. Look, you're using me as an argument, aboutstocking, right? And here's what's having trouble withstock, or what's going on is just about the vaccine that you've just changed strategy. There's no problem with the others, no problem! You just changed strategy. So, at other times, how much we can do to improve our margins. And so there's no excuse to see. Look, as soon as we make our decisions, the Administration or the Government is responsible for the influence of his decisions. I mean, if I'm late for the second dose, or if I don't, what am I supposed to do? But the administration should go beyond it, and the government should go beyond it. And many of them would have to think what would happen if they didn't make decisions. What does it make if you don't put vaccine on it? What's the effect of suspending AstraZeneca's? What's the effect? Of course. Can you prove that? Behind the vaccine that doesn't exist there are deaths. Behind the vaccine that doesn't go on, the disease is being disturbed. That's it. And that's what you're getting on with your strategy. More death, more anxiety, more transmission. That's it! Every vaccine that doesn't exist is important, it's very important. And that's not relevant. I said: he supposes a capital case of death or case behind every vaccine he does not put on. That's why vaccinations are important as soon as possible. And even if you want to keep the second dose, we're not doing well. We're not doing well! The system's not going well, we're slow. And that's the fault of the person who's running insertion. And, look, I know this is not scientific and technical. And I've often told you, even on the committee, that we're not on the side of the second dose. That's what we said to you: We are based on scientific evidence and scientific community... Look, I've got a "Paper" here... I don't give it a lot of time, but I've got several tests from the United States of The Lancet and their recommendations. From what you say and what you receive here, in scientific evidence, in scientific evidence... Not an article of the official institutions of the United States, the Pfizer or Moderna vaccine, which may be delayed suddenly. Considering the criteria of Great Britain... Clever evidence. And Mr. Rico knows what's going on. He knows! So we have to be serious because it's very serious. And this is not going to be a technical discussion, but the political discussion demands seriousness, seriousness, and not "I don't know what discussions." Because life is at stake. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Together Podemos-Nozzerz, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u16	Good. As soon as possible. We there, as I said before, are as fast as we can. But it is true that, as long as this debate is on the table, until this debate by the scientific community is resolved in some way and tells us that the best thing, from the point of view of public health, is to inoculate the first dose of these RNA vaccines, in our case Pfizer and Moderna, without taking into account the reserve of the second, we, of course, until with scientific criteria that is not the indication, we do think it is important to maintain the strategic reserve of that second dose in that type of vaccines, but also planned and adjusted, which is what has not happened. And with other types of vaccines, like AstraZeneca's, there's a greater margin. When the Government changed its view, it said that there was no change in strategy. I'm not going to argue now whether there was a change of strategy or not. There was a change of heart – I think Mr. Rico has, in some way, recognized it today – because that allowed for a higher rate of vaccination. And in what I do hope we are, at least, all right, it's that a higher rate and speed of vaccination is good. But we, especially today on our initiative... and so we have not been able to reach an agreement, were in the first part, but also with the government in the second part. Our criticism of how the vaccination campaign is being carried out, especially not so much to criticise what has already happened so far, which I think we have been doing every Wednesday in the Health Committee, you already know – I am tired, because I am already tired of repeating the same thing, especially about the past – but yes, in the face of the future, because we think that we have to do better in the face of the future. And for now we don't see those changes. Because it was said, "The strategy has to be adapted." Yeah. No one... Of course, our group is not asking the Government to be rigid in its strategy. Quite the contrary: we have said, at all times, that it has to be dynamic. I have said, on more than one occasion, that we think it has to include plan A, plan B and plan C, because we know all the external components that will influence how it can be developed. But it would generate much more certainty to have that planning much more concrete, and now it is not. That strategy, in some ways – it is true, and has been said by different speakers – is an adaptation of the Spanish strategy, which, after all, is an adaptation of the European Union's strategy in terms of groups, etc. But that must be landed in Euskadi. And that is the part that we believe has not been done; because each territory or each autonomous community – each state too – has different characteristics. And each group that has to be vaccinated in order of preference has different characteristics in each territory. And that's what we think has not been done properly. And, in our initiative, we put one of the elements where we believe it has failed and, therefore, where we believe it must be changed, it must be further refined and corrected, so that the problems that we have been seeing these months will not be given again. Concrete timetable, it was said; we are asked concrete timetable. Our group does not ask for a specific timetable. I have said this before and it is on our initiative: it is said planned timetable, and also in view of the availability of vaccines. That's what we ask and that we believe can be done. Scheduled. Because, moreover, we do not understand one thing, which is said by the Basque Government, but also by the Spanish Government, of which we are a party, that 70 % of the population is expected to be vaccinated by a specific date, for the summer, but nothing can be scheduled. How can it be expected that we will vaccinate equi percent of the population by a date and, at the same time, say that we cannot schedule how vaccination is going to be? On what criteria, then, do we know that an equi percent of the population will be vaccinated on a given date? A timetable can be set, which we believe will then have to be dynamic on the basis of external factors, but would help a lot in planning. And it would also help a lot to clear up that kind of collective race, why they don't vaccinate me and why they've vaccinate so that people are also sure to know exactly what's going on. Therefore, we do criticise the vaccination strategy that is being carried out. We think you can do better, you can plan better, and we think you should plan better. But it is important that, as long as the health criteria do not change, the RNA vaccine reserve is adjusted to plan those second doses. But always with the goal – I hope I share – of speeding up vaccination to the maximum, because the pace is important for the issue of group immunity.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u17	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The Basque Popular Group-Ciudadans is the representative of the group. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u18	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Nor have we at any time said – to make it clear – that we have to set the specific week in which each of the citizens would have to be vaccinated in Euskadi, much less. But we have asked from the beginning for a plan, and we do not know that plan. We do not know that plan and, when we are always demanding competences, the planning of a vaccination process, as well as that of the flu (resource empowerment, planning how this process develops...) belongs to the autonomous communities. It is true that criteria are laid down at the level of the National Public Health Commission – they are criteria – but planning for a vaccination process is the responsibility of the autonomous community, of the autonomous communities. And it is clear here that the Basque Government has made a certain demise of its functions. And we claimed that plan a few weeks ago. And, to this day, what we are asking is that the groups that are awaiting vaccination be prioritized with the groups that are inserted into each group, but not by whim, but because it is a necessity. If I had said this plan, we would not be in the mess we are in right now, and an order would be followed and people 82 years old, 83 years old, 84 years old would not be vaccinated – as I said in my first intervention – before 87, 88 and 89 years old. That's because... What is happening is because there is no plan, there is no planning, there are no clear criteria; there are changing criteria; the databases are not up-to-date, and decisions do not flow. It is clear that this is the clear proof that there is no planning and a plan. I'm not going into a scientific debate. We could make arguments here about how countries... The UPV's own PhD in Microbiology already said that reservations were not being applied in any country. The deputy councilman himself announced a change in the vaccination strategy, saying that some doses were going to be reserved, which is when it was announced that Illunbe was enabled to vaccinate, which was rather an act of propaganda, because then there was no mass vaccination. It was the Basque Government itself that realized that things could not be done as they were being done, that the results were being given to us and that we were the last ones to vaccinate. What's going on? That in other autonomous communities things are being done very badly and that the population is not guaranteed that second dose? Man, we're not gonna be so frivolous and demagogue. It was Mr. Illa who said to put all the doses that arrived, to accelerate the rate of vaccination, to reach the cruising speed. If it was Mr. Illa, Mr. Rico, the former minister who then ran for office in Catalonia. "Everyone has to administer all doses of vaccines as quickly as possible; we have to vaccinate, vaccinate, vaccinate..." That's what Mr. Illa said. Man, what we say... We are not pointing out that it is expressly stated when it is for a person to get vaccinated, for any citizen; but at the very least that we know the order, that we know the order! What can't be is that you're getting vaccinated here the way you're getting vaccinated. We have met, because we are constantly getting news that there are many people who are not quoting her and that she is going to her health center, or that, by some mediation, she has managed to get vaccinated by calling her, but not because she has called her Osakidetza. It is clear that here many more doses have been reserved than those corresponding to that reserve of half of the strategic doses. I have highlighted the example of what happened last week with the Moderna vaccine, and yesterday I did not get an answer from the counselor and I have not been challenged by this argument: how is it possible, if only half of the doses are reserved, that 14,800 arrive last week and that only 3,567 are put? I mean, they booked a lot more than half. Therefore, I believe that this data also shows that there is no planning, no adequate pace, no criteria... People are plunged into disconcertingness. How will older people not be suspicious of how things are being done when they see that their 87-year-old neighbor is not being vaccinated... That he, who is 87 years old, is not vaccinated and one of 82 years old is being vaccinated? That is what is happening: they are not isolated cases; these are not isolated errors, as the counselor told us yesterday, and this is because, obviously, things have not been done well and are not being done well. I'm going to take Mr. Telleria's word for it. Okay, let's take into account the criteria of epidemiologists, technicians... Strengthen and count once and for all on the technicians, epidemiologists and experts we have both in Public Health and in Osakidetza in this autonomous community, that I believe things would have gone and would be much better for them; they may still be in time. Take the train at once, and pay attention. And do not make decisions in an absolutely closed circuit, apart from people who really know about these issues. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u19	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u20	Thank you, Madam President. I sometimes have the feeling that we repeat arguments over and over again when a person is brought up in this rostrum, even if those arguments have been rebutted and the questions that have been asked about all those debates have been answered, but here it comes as if those previous sessions had not existed, as if we had not discussed this matter, as if no information had been given. And I am sorry for that; it reminds me of the feeling that Estanislao Figueras, the first president of the First Republic, could have had by making a very famous phrase, which I am not going to reproduce here, because he would have to withdraw from the sitting paper. But I do believe that, honestly, weak favor is being done to the citizenry, or is being done to the citizenry, by those who have that strategy. I'm not gonna fight... when talking about changing the criteria or not changing the criteria. If you remember here, when we were talking about the post-Christmas vaccination strategy, and so on, I told the counselor that one two, three, four, five, six, seven or the strategies that are needed. But I'm not going to get lost in the name. No, it's just that you don't want to understand that the strategy exists; it exists from the beginning, it exists from before we have a single dose of vaccine, but that strategy is adaptive and will continue to adapt. Call her whatever you want. I'm not going to get lost in the name. They won't find me in that debate, because I don't care, and I think citizenship doesn't care. But, of course, not wanting to understand that the vaccination strategy has to be consistent with an absolutely changing reality... Look, last week, we paralyzed vaccination across Europe with AstraZeneca. Do we want to obviate that? Look, we're gonna have a one-dose vaccine in a while. Shall we find out? And I add this with the timing. Really, is it so hard to understand how to put a vaccine on a person's next week if we don't know how many doses we're going to get next week? It's just that I think that to focus on that is to want to create frustration. I don't know if the goal is to put in a calendar so that it doesn't come true. Which, by the way, draws my attention, and I say it again: why is this said here and does not, for example, the People's Party where it governs? Give me a self-governing community with a calendar setting out the week in which one of them is concerned. Don't...! And I, Mrs Garrido, also have to say to you: I do not think certain claims are reasonable, when you know that the vaccination strategy is being developed, precisely through the working group of the committee of experts of the Government of Spain and of the Autonomous Communities, of which four representatives of these Autonomous Communities are of the People's Party, and it is unanimously approved. The same strategy that says that, little by little, new groups and collectives will be introduced. That is to say, the same strategy that says it is impossible to put now black on white a calendar in which let's say when a person who is not, for example, within those collectives, who are still going to be vaccinated. And he knows that. I was very drawn to my attention – and I bring it up for a sentence that has been said here – that in the first speech I said that I regret that the agreement could not be reached, referring to Podemos, to Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, and that an effort should have been made, because you saw the agreement easy... Man, easy agreement depends on what; because, if it is to maintain coherence, I will tell you that Elkarrekin Podemos today has maintained coherence, saying that no to that agreement, because he has a very clear vision that he has been exposing in the Health Commission itself for a while. The problem is when we don't care about coherence, Mrs. Garrido. I was very drawn to my attention when I saw this initiative, because today we are talking here, as all the groups have said, about the strategic reserve, which none of them introduced in their amendments. And I, who usually review the hemerotheque, because I went to the hemerotheque, and I realized that it was, precisely at the time when the deadline for amendments expired, when the announcement was given by several autonomous communities of the People's Party, that they had to stop the first dose of vaccination because they did not have enough doses and that they had to prioritize the second vaccines, because they had not made a strategic reservation. For not making strategic reserve! What a coincidence! I've grown much older, and I don't believe in coincidences anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u21	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u22	Thank you, ma'am. The document itself that has been sent to all by the department, of vaccination strategy, on page 49, already points out the principles on which the vaccine will be prioritized, which are equality, dignity, necessity, equity, protection of persons with disabilities, the best interests of the child, social benefit and reciprocity. And there is a committee of experts at the General Commission of Public Health, which has experts in public health, epidemiologists, experts in bioethics, vacunologists... And in Euskadi there is a vaccine advisory board, an infectious disease advisory board, an epidemiology service, a public health service, and you, Mrs. Garrido, tell me that the government has to rely on the epidemiologists they know. Or the epidemiologists who are your friends and blow your ear? Because there are them, and they are officials, eh; they are not public offices. Let's see if he's gonna have to nuance, every time he talks about all of Osakidetza's employees, except epidemiologists. That council has catalogued the entire population, depending on a lot of risks. And by the way, if they had not been fixed, on page 131 of that document, in the section of recommendations, apart from others, strictly states: "The pattern of two doses will be maintained in the populations being vaccinated, administering the second dose of Pfizer as soon as possible, from 21 days, and from Moderna, from 28". And then in February, when there is an update of the document, which is being updated, logically, they add that of AstraZeneca, to be given between ten and twelve weeks. Vaccinate as quickly as possible, yes – I told you yesterday in the committee – is that we are reiterating ourselves: it is idem of idem. Vaccinate as soon as possible, yes. We too are supporters. Everyone's a supporter. But do not transfer the burden of proof to the person who has to vaccinate; transfer the burden of proof to the person who supplies the vaccines or to the person who has contracted the vaccines, not to the person who has to vaccinate, who puts, according to the criteria established by expert epidemiologists, the vaccines according to their criteria. The document has been sent to you; the problem is that I have a feeling that they are sent the documents, but as soon as they see that they are a little potty, they stop on page 3... And this one, of course, has 180 pages, and you have to read it all, because there it appears that the vaccine must be given with criteria of universality and equity; there it appears that people over 60 are priority; there it appears that people with previous pathologies are considered, and there it appears that pharmacovigilance must be kept alert. Already, really, about adding students or other staff, I don't get involved anymore, because I wish we could get 2 million vaccines a week. I'm sure the Department of Health would count on everyone to put them on as soon as possible, even the mutuals. That, of course, there have also been groups that have criticized the mutual vaccines, because, in the background, in the background!, in general terms, the model of debate has not changed: to ask that the hand be opened and then to criticize that it is opened; to ask that it be closed and then to criticize that any activity is prohibited, or that it is accelerated or that it is late. You never know with you, you always have a bullet in the chamber to shoot the government. They consciously play to confuse Pfizer with the AstraZeneca; they confuse it permanently. Because, look, my son, who is 31 years old, has already been vaccinated, and his grandmother, who I don't know how old he is—I'm going to say 86 so that, if he hears me, he thinks I've taken it off—has not yet been vaccinated. Why? Because from AstraZeneca everyone knows that more doses arrive, they get faster, you don't expect to save anything because you have to put it in 12 weeks, which has all its logic, while from Pfizer they arrive much less, and they are getting as it goes. And, therefore, my son, who is priority, according to the criterion he has established – for me it is nothing priority; I am more priority than him, but the expert committees have decided that he is more priority, because he dedicates a profession that is priority –, pum, 31 years and vaccinated; my mother-in-law, 86, and yet not. But this is the reality, because... And this you know why. And that's not critical, but they do, they use it. I don't know what to appeal to anymore. It has not occurred to them to collaborate with the government, to criticize a little, because you, Mrs Ubera, ask the government for courage, but there is no need to confuse courage with boldness, uh... And the government is brave, but not daring. You should be brave, to try to collaborate more with the government. That would be bravery! And we would, by the way, like you to have a real planning of what you're going to do. Because I remember that – I think it was in October or November – the spokesperson of his group made a press conference, showing all their support in the pandemic to the lehendakari. And when the press conference was over – she will remember – I came to thank her. I'm not gonna say what he answered, because that's part of a private conversation. In 12 hours, they were already from Gipuzkoa criticizing everything the Basque Government was doing. Clarify yourselves, plan what you want to do. And be brave. That's right, even to the government – and especially to the Department of Health – I will follow you – and our group will follow you – moving your spirits, so that, despite hearing what you hear, you will continue where you are going, that you are doing very well. Because we and a majority of society believe in them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u23	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Mrs Martínnez... Isn't he going to say a word? So, we're going to the vote. The discussion is over and we'll vote for the original text of the EHG as a team. Dots? Okay... we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 41; the votes given, 74; the supporters 21; the contrary, 41; the abstations, 12; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u24	So it's not accepted. Together, Podemos-Nozzer is going to vote for the full rights of the crew. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 41; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 6; the contrary, 40; the abstations, 28; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u25	So it's not accepted. We vote for the whole of the Basque Popularo team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 41; the votes given, 74; the supporters 7; the contrary, 40; the abstations, 27; white, 0.1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u26	So it's not accepted. And finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the U.S.A. patriots in the whole area that the teams present. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 41; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 40; the contrary, 32; the abstainments, 2; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u27	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "The other proposal of Podemos, which was made by the parliamentary faction of the Podemos, was, together, to take measures to prevent the extreme poverty. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Monsieur Martínezion, representative of the Podemos, is your word to present and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u28	Yes, good morning. Four years and a half later I'm here, or we're here together, talking about my poverty again from Podemos-Uruerda. And I say this because the first initiative I defended in this tribe was about it. From Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we defend the impulse of public policies that address, from an integral approach, the fight against poverty. We are aware that energy poverty, child poverty, are expressions of the impoverishment of a large part of society in Euskadi, also the result of an exit from the crisis that took place in 2008 and of a social protection system that still fails to protect all people. Moreover, this phenomenon – and, in this case, that of energy poverty – also has consequences, of course, for housing and protection of consumers. But, in addition to this, we believe that there are goods and basic services for which it is essential to defend their social character. The material conditions indispensable for life must be protected, and must be protected and combated the cycles of intergenerational transmission of poverty. We would like to change the model, obviously bathe ekimen honekin babesa hobetzeko proposed bat aurkezten dugu. Before the crisis of health, which is the case with the eucalyptics, the inhabitants of Escata were in a state of relative poverty. And they were becoming a chronic state of extreme poverty and suburbs in part of our society, before pandemy. Last of Eusta's records, E.N.2018. Those who are of the year say that poverty and want of wealth were the cause of 8% of the Basque population. Asimism, por ejemplo, Oxfam Intermón tambien alert, en en suforme, de casi 8000 peoples en el statuso pedroían caer en poora severa, por el impo del coronavirus. The impact of the pandemic and the economic crisis is uneven. Younger people, women in situations of greatest vulnerability and migrants are the collectives, along with others... But they're the hardest hit by this crisis. And we are talking about energy poverty at this point, and we just need to see this data that we have just commented on and make a small contrast in energy: that data against the Iberdrola results account in 2020, 3,611 million net profit, more than 4% that in 2019, a third of the Basque budget, only for benefit, of a single company dedicated to energy in our country. That is the reality of poverty data, compared to the macro-benefits of certain enterprises. Faced with this, the Red Cross reported that, of the families that had to attend during 2019 in Euskadi to deal with energy poverty – in particular, some 1,500 families – 50% of them had to choose when paying basic expenses. We are not talking about any other type of expenditure, but about choosing between adequate food or heating to heat your home. Because it is not only energy poverty that cannot pay the bills, but it is also that we have to give up other expenses, especially if they are basic, in order to be able to pay these. Egia da egoera horiek arintzeko diru-sarrarera bermatzeko errenta edota AESak edo orine hitz egin dugun Gurutze Gorriak kudeatzen dituen dirulaguntza horiek ditugula Euskadin, baina ez dira nahikoak. They are not enough, because we know the thousands of people who stay out of income guarantee income. We also know, because this Parliament has worked hard in this respect and there are many complaints from social groups about this too, from the administrative yincan to which those who need access to such social benefits are subject. To these subsidies – to these benefits, rather, we have to add others like the electric social bonus, but the electric social bonus has a problem, and it is a system that does not end up reaching everyone who needs it, because it is unknown. Eta bachita ére dankagu arrakala digitala bezalako egiturazko arazoa, éta informazione eskuratzea oinarrizko eskubidea ebiltzeko edo bermatzeko informazio-kanpainak missing directionez, disinformation dago horren inguruan era. According to the collective that struggles against the social and the poverty of the firm, as this measure does not apply directly, so the state has no right to receive social bond or equivalent support because it does not know that it exists and is not applied directly. Many families do not know that there is such a thing, or that they must be in a regular market to demand it. Or, for instance, they mix free market flirtations and social Bonu, in which they help much, or they do a great deal of good in working out commercials that work for the electrics. In addition, we have an advantage: in recent months, with the electric social bonus, as far as vulnerable consumers are concerned, and it is that the figure of the vulnerable consumer and the persons potentially benefiting from the social bonus has been strengthened. It was first reinforced, through the measures adopted by the central Government, in the social shield of the first months of the pandemic, and also this year, in January, by the Royal Decree of 19 January of the Council of Ministers for the Protection of Vulnerable Persons, promoted by the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, which extended the figure of the vulnerable consumer. Before, it only referred to people who had economic difficulties, but now – and it has a lot to do with what it said before the commercial practices, the electrical ones, who manipulate or attempt to disguise the contracts of what they are not, and the people are left without the social bonus – with this figure of the vulnerable consumer, who must work it also in the autonomous communities, people will also be protected for social, cultural, generational and also geographical reasons. Some examples of the new profiles that protect this new figure of the vulnerable consumer: elderly people, with a low level of digitisation, since this has a lot to do with what it said at the beginning that the digital divide does not help people to access the social bonus and not some support; adolescents with difficulties in accessing technological resources; people with problems of access to information, due to a disability; minors unprotected from tendentious advertisements; for example, at a geographical level, inhabitants of villages without access to all services, or to choose services... Because no one is exempt, in their lives, from having a situation of vulnerability, more extreme or less extreme. Y, sobre esto, sobre esto in all this, we must inform the company of euscals. And that's why we're asking, in the middle of the middle we've had, you know, to make a little sensational music about it. No nos peers, para nada, descabellado. In addition to all that has been said so far, both in social emergency aid and in other benefits, as in the social bonus, the pandemic has not helped to manage them. There have been delays, resulting from the initial confinement; there has been a general delay in obtaining certain certificates or supporting documents. And it could have improved; things have been done. And that is why we are calling for better coordination, also between the different public administrations. Because these delays affect people who, in the case of social emergency aid, such as energy expenditure, what we were talking about, have to face payments immediately, and this cannot be delayed by bureaucracy. For this reason, for example, in 2020, one year of crisis, the activities of the Red Cross, which is related to the Golden Spear, were less than 9%, for example in Gipuzia, 17%. But, according to the Red Cross, the number of petitioners will increase terribly this year in 2021, when they have accepted the delayed files, and the economic crisis caused by the covida will increase, because it appears that the demand will rise in the opinion of the Red Cross. Also, this phenomenon, that of energy poverty – or that of energy well-being if we see it from a transformative point of view – has to be addressed decisively by the governments; in this case, by the Basque Government, in line with its own, at least formal, commitment to the 2030 Agenda. Of the 17 SDGs approved in 2015 by the UN, the seventh refers to the right to access to affordable and non-polluting energy. It is therefore obliged, in this case for the Basque Government, to pursue this end. So, in a word, what are we asking for with the other law? About the system? No. To improve some things necessary in the system, and give an urgent answer? Yeah. "Tres cosas muy concretas, que hemos transaccionado, y proponíamos tamen en propositionion de origen: The first, the flexibility of the criteria of access to social emergency aid, the commitment to increase the amounts and sufficient credit, so that no one stays, no applicant stays, without access to these benefit lines. The second is a campaign to raise public awareness of the possibilities of access to the social bonus as a vulnerable new consumer by the covid or by the new approved figure and by the social bonus in general. And the third, of course, we do not give up our proposal to change the energy model; we know that, with a non-law proposal, we will not do so, but we will continue to insist. That is why we have introduced the mandate or the request to the Government of the State, and also to the Basque Government in its powers, to ensure the production, distribution and marketing of electricity as a social good and, therefore, to take the necessary measures to ensure the basic vital supplies for low-income households. We are talking about a market good that should be a basic right of citizenship, the right to energy well-being. We don't have a deal, we lose another chance for the deal. But from us, as far as Podemos-Euerda Unida, we will continue to improve the defrayance of our system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u29	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. We're gonna go over to the teams that filed the corrections. The Basque Popular Group, representative of Ciudadnos, Mrs. Larrea, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u30	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, I wanted to take up the first sentence that Mr Zatón, Martínez Zatón, has said, and you are talking about the 2008 crisis that has already revealed the needs. For I know a very close person, who in his day said to me: "But if the crisis of 2008 has not made me poorer; I am still as poor as I am and I still have the same needs." Because the needs of Basque families we, here, notice them when many people have needs, but we should worry when a person, a family, has needs. You have provided data on the number of people at serious risk of crisis. But it doesn't matter how many there are, as long as there is one. For me, this is very important. And then, I continue with what I had prepared, to say that it is not the economic crisis that has arisen by the covid that is causing the problem of energy poverty or the inability to access resources for a dignified life. This is an old problem, and aggravated today; I do not deny it. Now, basic social services have increased their level of activity, which was already high a long time ago. Today we are talking about ESAs, about social emergency aid, relating it to energy poverty. And I am going to make a criticism of them, because I know that, although for thousands of families they are necessary, we do not settle for that of "less gives a stone". I think we need to look for excellence. I think we need to look for the sensitivity to reorganise the aid system in Euskadi, so that they reach all those who need it in a fair way. And are we satisfied with our support system? No, no, This does not mean that we do not like the existence of aid, but that this self-criticism will make us think about what are the real needs, improve what are the real needs, improve the criteria for access to aid and improve the forms, documents, requirements... so that everyone who needs it can get to that aid. Help must reach everyone. And I repeat it again, because it is important: to all those who need it. Society must feel that the criteria are fair and adapted to the case studies of the citizens of Euskadi. I repeat: we have long been considering the restructuring of the Euskadi aid system. It's undeniable that families are making use of them, but we have to take it for a spin. And this criticism has come to this parliamentary seat several times, because something is there, something is not being done right, and we must improve it. Look, I'm going to start with this criticism that said I'm going to do emergency aid. Access criteria reach the municipalities, the Social Welfare Commission, usually in March. Since January, therefore, the municipalities have paralysed applications for emergency aid, which they know will surely be able to grant from March onwards. But they keep many families waiting who have that need and who can't spend three months waiting for the administration to play their game. The word "emergency aid" says so well. The emergency is immediate. Can't wait a month or two. Therefore, emergency aids are to repair glasses of sight, are for the payment of energy bills, are for the payment of the repair of a microwave that they need to heat their food, for breast milk in some cases. Not just energy poverty. That is why I attach great value to this aid system, which, I say again, we will have to rethink when the aid system in Euskadi is restructured. And this globalized reflection is so necessary that I have not been able to talk only about what energy poverty is; because, when one suffers energy poverty, one suffers many other povertys. We can not only talk about energy poverty. And when we tabled the amendment to Podemos's GNP, what we said was that when people go to basic social services or go to basic social services, ask for emergency aid or simply for help, they don't even know what an emergency aid is; first they have gone through a vital reflection of the need they had. As a general rule, they come with very aggravated and highly timed problems, that is, one does not have an economic problem and goes directly to basic social services. It is therefore essential that these aids be processed quickly. And in our amendment, in the first point, we asked that, in order to address energy poverty, information necessary to ensure compliance with the requirements for access to such much-needed aid could be shared or verified between different administrations in an automated manner. And in the second point, what is most needed for emergency aid is that sufficient funding is guaranteed for such aid, because we cannot afford to say "there are not enough resources, it is over, the tap is closed". Emergency aid, on his behalf, I repeat, carries the accompanying emergency. Therefore, we cannot work with a finite budget, but what we have to do is make a general reflection of all aid, including social emergency aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. The representative of the EH Group, of the Kortah, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u32	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Congressmen, good morning to all. It's only a few weeks since we've been able to discuss what we know of the euphemism of the Euphemism of the Basque People in this legislature. And then I think it was clear what our team reads about the subject and our position is, right? Mr Martíne has mentioned data and casuistics, and I will not repeat them here once more. But there are a couple of things I would like to emphasise: On the one hand, in the Araba, the Biscay, and the Gipu, the advance of the indicators that relate to the housing has been speccular since 2008. The number of people who don't have enough resources to deal with expense has obviously gone up to their homes to have the right temperature. And we're talking about almost 200,000 people's privacy. On the other hand, in the comparison of our poverty, that poverty is one of our darkest points. That our data is much worse than those in Europe and the state. And lastly, I would like to remark that the last facts, the 2018, from the worst data received from what has been studied in the series, are very near to us from 2014. They are all the data in the pandemia, and it is thought that the situation will get worse. We have a difficulty, I said, and it is clear that our support system is not capable of answering the situation, and there are too many people who are being left behind and helpless. We made it clear that it is time to give answers from public politics. In our opinion, and in the point of view of our political choice for worthy and lasting life, the absence of cold ought to be a right. And from this conviction we now presented a few weeks ago the law-proposital proposition of worldly well-being, a legal proposition which would have a key above all other things. We have a key, because the principal purpose of the legal proposition was to make a minimum use of energy right, to guarantee and make a fundamental service in order to live worthy lives, and to be able to do it in a mythical frame that is lasting. The key was to open a new rights lock, right? We received a negative, you know that. But our legal proposition had another medium of strength. Yeah? In order to reach the most extreme poverty, public policies are gathered into four ranks of Europe; The measurements centered on the neurotic efficiency, centered on the reactor transfer, centered in social faith and other measurements. He observed all these parts or sets of parts, which was the main force of our legal proposition for the most religious good. But today we must discuss a partial discussion, won't we? , limited to centered measurements during the revision transfer. In this community, the principal tools of this community are the assistance of social commotions, and in a great measure the only one; for besides this there is nothing in it but a programme against the extreme poverty which the Red Cross governs, is there not? We had to wait until 2017, through an agreement here made in 2015, to anticipate my poverty as a deliberate expense in social distresses. After that, the maximum amount of that concept was frozen to 900 euros a year. El importe máximo de las cuantías detinedas a este Gasto esta congedo, en desode 2017s, en 900 euros; pes a que, poremplo, la Encuesta de Necesidades Sociales, special Gobierno Vasco rege, proporci de personas suo de persono de fríre in vous conse disguar tumera, une tus de la muguera, une teni de nobicia. And this is not the only problem we have with the amount. Just as my partner, Fernandez de Betoño, had been showing, even for years, the amount of extra preparation for the apartment has not been overrated, and it's a bit too much for fun. And, of course, you can't forget the restrictions made on the rent amount. All this reduced non update or restriction to the amount of approximation and helper of the Euscal protection system. A few years ago, the protection of the euscal protective system was bigger than today, and the concave of this situation is the same as the poll on social needs. The distance between people employed in our protection system, the poverty of people who did not leave poverty was 16,1% in 2016; and this distance was 2018. That is to say, the amount of prestige that they receive has been frozen or reduced to thousands of thousands of people left behind the threshold of poverty. So, apart from that, there's a program against mygetic poverty that's managed by the Red Cross, 4000,000. We could talk about that program, too, because the Red Cross has to be in charge of those helps and answering this situation is the most obvious indication of the satisfaction and propriety of the answers he calls out, but that's not the discussion today. Yeah, but I don't even know how many years this is a conjectory game, when we're in a game of conroomadae años y unas ayudas en cuya tramitiaón bice que seán vendo problems. The phenomenon and the existence of thousands of people are identified. There is also a certificate. The various data we have in our hands show the non-willingness of the immediately applied answers, and the want of resources. And, besides, we've all been informed of the problems that are around to help us to manage the Red Crosss. Well, if you don't want to open the door of the rights, at least! We'll have to find a solution to our problems, and we'll have to figure out, improve, update, or adapt ourselves to the answers that we give us, don't we? That's what we think today's initiative is going to do, and that's what we're setting up for. With long lights set up, we proposed a way to open the keyhole of the right of the Myrgetic welfare, and to motify the tools we have here to conform to reality and need. And in the same way there is also a middle course of the same with the Podemos. But, seeing the amendment introduced by the groups which sustain the government, it does not seem necessary that you should see it; neither is there need of it. And we can understand that we can have differences with long lights in the direction where the answer should be, right? We were ready to leave it to-day, and, in a way, to facilitate the arrangement. But as for the short term, what we plan is our tool update, that's all. It is not a revolution in this medium, it is not proposed to change from top to bottom of the system; it is only to set up tools to give a better answer to reality. That's all, but not even that. It was like, "You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, like, "You know, you know, you know, you know, like, "You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, "Pero creo que no es el caso de est iniciativa." And in the mean time, as has been said, the number of people living in this situation, and the number of people who live in it. Look, when we were preparing this topic, my colleague Ander Rodriguez told me that he has a friend who loves etiology who told him about the Red Queen's hypothesis, an evolutionary hypothesis that proposes that organisms must constantly change to survive, to sustain themselves. The same applies to protection systems: they must change and adapt to maintain their protection capacity. And that's what's not going on here. And I add to this another reflection. In my speech I have mentioned several times the Survey of Poverty and Social Inequalities that the Basque Government is preparing and which is mentioned a lot in this House too, and I have mentioned it because the main objective of this survey is, or should be, to know the reality and then to affect it; that is to say, the reality that these surveys show us guides public policies. Perhaps you should reflect on the situations in which a government produces surveys, but whose results do not affect its public policies at all. I don't know; think about it. "Y nos decían, cuando ábamos nasotros la ley de genestar nirgético, que nuntra propesta no eralista no." Well, you're so realistic, that today, thanks to your entire majority, we'll end up as we've begun, accepting an amendment that won't give any answers to people who live. This is reality, a crude reality, but winter will not pass for thousands of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. ...by the turn of responses... together Podemos-Nozzer... representatives of the Animate Group... Ah, wait, wait, oh, oh, excuse me... Basque Socialists, Mr. Aziza.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u34	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Chief Department, Congressman, good morning, everyone. We agree with the proponent in his concern about the state in which many families live in a situation of energy vulnerability, and even more so in this pandemic situation. But not only are we concerned, but from the various institutions and from the commitment as a government, in the different governments, we are also concerned – because one could infer from his initiative that no steps have been taken in recent years in this area, and that would simply be lacking in the truth, and more so as regards the role of the Socialists in this matter. In a simple review, I could tell you that this issue, in particular, began to be dealt with in this House back in 2013, and we were precisely the Socialists – in the mouth of then-parliamentary Natalia Rojo – who brought the first debates on the subject, in order to make this issue visible. It was we, the Socialists, from the opposition, who proposed, as early as 2015, an amendment for the creation of a specific fund not linked to social emergency aid, to care for families in a situation of social vulnerability. Starting in 2016, it is consolidated in the budget as a permanent item, and not only that, but also doubles its amount. Fund which is to be managed by the Red Cross and which complements or complements other actions carried out in this area, from within the Basque Government, such as social emergency aid or the social bonus. Without going further – and in the specific case of social emergency aid, which, to a large extent, is the economic support that ensures that many Basque families can cope with the payment of ordinary expenses and avoid situations of social exclusion, and also of energy poverty – in the 2020 budgets, 27 and a half million, which, in view of the situation resulting from the pandemic and its consequences, was increased by 16 million, in April, reaching a total of 43 and a half million euros, budgets, items, which have practically remained, as far as 2021 is concerned, with 42 million euros that can be expanded, if necessary. These actions are in addition to the efforts being made in this area by municipalities and parliaments. Specifically, in Gipuzkoa, under the socialist leadership, the Department of the Environment, with José Ignacio Asensio at the head, created the Energy Poverty Observatory, a tool that, as can be seen from its objectives and actions, not only gives us an X-ray on the territory on this issue, but also helps us to plan and guide policies and actions for the reduction of energy poverty in a structural way. Following the past autonomous elections – and with the formation of the coalition government of the Basque Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party – the commitment to the fight against energy poverty was renewed, endorsing a government agreement, in which, among other measures, the following are highlighted: First, strengthening efforts to prevent and address homelessness, energy poverty and other poverty situations affecting particularly vulnerable persons (e.g. older persons, young people, girls and boys, persons with disabilities), with particular attention to those facing multiple discrimination and/or lacking a social support network, such as those in an unintended situation of loneliness. Secondly, the impetus of a child guarantee programme, as a key element of a comprehensive strategy against child poverty, in line with the recommendations of the European Union, by improving income guarantee income for families with dependent children, which also includes, of course, cases of energy poverty. Thirdly, the establishment of an observatory on discrimination. Fourthly, from the Department of Housing, led by socialist Iñaki Arriola, the drive to the advanced and comprehensive management of the public housing park, with criteria of energy efficiency and digitization, including also the strategy to combat energy poverty, all through the creation of an energy manager own for the public housing park. Fifthly, the thrust of rehabilitation programmes, with particular attention also to energy efficiency aspects. Conditions for ensuring health and comfort, or eliminating the risk of energy poverty, to which we must add the impetus to social housing rental policies or policies in relation to housing alternatives for people at risk of exclusion. Sixth, the adoption of the Strategic Plan for the Just Energy Transition, to promote social protection for the most disadvantaged and to avoid situations of energy poverty. All of them, commitments to make Euskadi a territory without energy vulnerability, with guarantees of universal access to affordable, reliable and modern energy services. At the national level, the socialist compromise does not fall behind either. In 2016, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party proposed an initiative in the Congress, whose fundamental objective was to consider the supply of energy as a basic social right and that vulnerable consumers could access a social tariff, depending on their income and not on the market. Most importantly, there would be no winter supply cuts for those in energy poverty, financing the difference between social tariff and real consumption through the State's General Budgets. Certainly, we have reached an agreement that was successful in a real decree law, which provided that the social bonus should be paid for by the marketers and that cuts in supplies to consumers in severe poverty were not allowed. Today, the Socialists, from the Government of Spain, have launched the Royal Decree-Law 15/2018, of 5 October, of urgent measures for the energy transition and the protection of consumers. This royal decree law will be what supports the National Strategy against Energy Poverty 2019-2024, a strategy that has been developed by the Ministry for the Ecological Transition, a strategy that has been submitted to public consultation, with a final document, which incorporates the contributions of civil society, approved by the Council of Ministers on April 5, 2019. The strategy sets out, for the first time, a definition of the situation of energy poverty and vulnerable consumers; makes a diagnosis of the situation in Spain; determines the axes of action, and sets targets to reduce this social problem that affects more than three and a half million people in our country. The strategy sets out four lines of action, with 19 concrete actions, including the creation of a new energy social bond, universal for all supplies and automatic concession; the cut-off of supply in extreme weather situations is prohibited, and the period before the supplier shuts down the service by default is extended in four months; express rehabilitation is also promoted, through renewed plans for more efficient appliances, and in the long term, the rehabilitation of more energy-efficient buildings. In short, we cannot approve your initiative, either because the actions that you propose – or attest to propose – are already being carried out through other instruments, or, in other cases, because we do not share the orientation that you propose. In any case, I have no doubt that this is an issue, this is an issue, which, of course, also occupies a large part of the action of this government, as well as that of other governments in which the Socialists are involved. No doubt, from that concern, we put instruments, we put policies at the service of those people who are suffering from this scourge that we hope and wish that it will be reduced over time, and of course that it is not one of the issues that should be of particular concern to this Government, to the extent or to the extent that this problem is on the increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u35	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Chief Department, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. A short time ago, when we treated the use of the law-proposed poverty of the EH Collectors, I said, as a axis, that my extreme poverty is poverty, poverty, poverty, poverty, we ought not to give a name and adjective to poverty. I also mentioned, that although we place the policies and subservations of poverty in the niceties of social services, we should be mistaken only because social services may offer the ultimate network, but if we want to attack poverty, the mission is strictly indirect. Hence let us read the facts of the poverty of the Eucadia before the crisis of health which has been mentioned since its purpose, in short, as a whole. The principal result of this inquest was that the indicators of poverty were stableized at the foundation. The immense effort of protection which had been effected in the vast difficult context of the labyrinth and social differences was detected. The guarantee of payment, an additional preparation for the apartment, assisting the systems for social distress, the result of poverty in other 70.348 persons, from this state, 66.219, more than what was observed in 2008. On the other hand, although the indicators of poverty had recovered, they had not evolved in the same rhythm of the economic situation, because of reasons which would have long to explain and to discuss now. It is well to point out that our society was marked by the fact that during the 2016-2010 the level of money and the level of prosperity, or by a considerable increase of the population which had almost complete access to the population volume. Thus, in 2018, a people of the least degree of difference in Europe was in Europe, four points under the European Union and European countries, the index of Gini. And to him who listens to the details of this subject without too much knowledge, it must be said that it is better to be below it than to be above it. By no means, we have already observed that the mention of the former state and all the ratings are of little value to us now, unless we are conscious of our going out of the country, because we are all conscious that circumstances, if not at all, have been worse, compared with all former circumstances and properties. And it was fun and that's it. And only in the field of social services, and in the case of poverty, the aids of social distress were supplied with more than 16 million dollars the year before, and the funds called Gabe were left behind in another 9 million dollars. On the other hand, it is not easy to conceive in this other case all the allusions made to the State, Spain, because we are first and once in a different state. In the same way our economic structure is different, as social structure, as the level of protection which has been made for years by our several eucalogies, and many other variables. And that's all that makes it so that those data in the state isn't extrapolates in the Euskolas. And you know that too. But one of the most striking things of this other law is that a political force in the Spanish government should give us such an awful photograph of Spain, as if other people in Spain would do nothing in the field of my own use of poverty, and especially when the party or coalcindation of the initiative has both the consumption and the viceregation of social affairs in its own hands. And the case of what I am saying is paradigmatic about the price of the litigant, considering the present system of settings of prices as excess. Well, there you have it. You're in the Spanish Government. What do you need? "Sí se puede," did it cheer you up? What we pay in the power is a disgrace, and it is a disgrace to the notions we pay for that bill, which ought to be carried away by general prejudice rather than by the consumers. But let each man be free, let him be free. And do it, but do something, with all the literature you put in it for that purpose. That, if it is true, would help the billing of the light, and not think that it would end with the most energetic poverty. Moreover, you yourself, in the mouth of Intermón Oxfam, may find five,1 million citizens obliged to live in less than 16 of them in the Spanish State. This last fact explains what I was saying at first, that we cannot stop against what you propose, not only in the friendships of social services, but in the friendships of social commotions, and even in the bill of enlightenment, because this business is much more indirect. Economy must be accelerated; formation must be encouraged. As we're talking about the neurotic simplicity of the housing, the possibility of extreme efficiency in the housing, the strengthening social conversation, the approximating inclutive corporations, the guarantees of professionals and money troops, and the legal changes to be around it, the aids for social shocks... In short, I think I have enumerated a great part of the Government's program, for the struggle against poverty is ultimately connected with the end of all our well-being. Horregatik, esaten duzuenean "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government and the other competent administrations to immediately approve applications for aid to tackle energy poverty...". During 2020 68,928 cases have been dealt with. When they say "the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to coordinate with the rest of the Basque public administrations, to plan and ensure sufficient funding for social emergency aid linked to the specific line to meet energy costs". In view of the fact that the Government has increased the social emergency aid fund during the pandemic to EUR 46 million over the course of 2020, and that there is also a substantial increase in the current budget in this area in relation to the previous year's budget, I believe that it is clear that this Government is willing to meet the needs that are required, including those related also to energy expenditure, which, in the current figures, represent around an eighth of all ESAs. Thirdly, "a campaign to raise awareness that will help to provide information on social bonds and aid to address energy poverty, including the update on the approval of the new category of vulnerable consumers entitled to the collection of the social bonus of the Royal Decree Law 30/2020". Man, this is state law passed by your department, Mr. Garzón. You guys do the campaign. Inform the citizen. That is to say, in Madrid you pass regulations for the whole state – let's put aside the debate about the invasion of competences or not – and then come here to make us pay for an awareness campaign about the regulations that you have adopted in Madrid. Do it! Do you know of any campaign on this? This, together with the following two points, in which the Government of the State is urged, to which you are a party, on the one hand, to "develop and implement urgent measures to curb speculation and reduce the receipt of light", and, on the other hand, "to make a change in the legislative framework so that electricity, its production, distribution and marketing are at the service of citizens". Go ahead, Mr. Martinez. Do it wherever it suits, which is in Madrid, in the Spanish Government, which is where you are. I think they'll at least count on our support. In conclusion, "the Basque Government is urged to draw up an urgent plan to guarantee basic vital supplies"... Man, before a government that invests 40% of the social aid of the whole Spanish state, before a government that by 2021 previews an increase of 15 million of the allocation for social emergency aid, up to a total of 42.5 million euros, before a government that prohibits the continuity of the programs included in the fund Inor Atzean Utzi Gabe, with an item of 8.6 million euros, plus 1.3 million of the program Aukerak Suspertzen, that in addition to the program Aukerak Suspertzen will maintain, in terms of the more basic vital supply, the program Azken Sarea Indartzen, that it gives cover to the basic needs for people who cannot request the AES or the RGI, the program Lehen Urratsa, alternatives of accommodation with social support for homeless people who are in refuge during the confinement, before a government that, if necessary, has expressed its willingness to reactivate the programs Guzion Artean, distribution of products of first necessity and social support, such as the program Aterpeak, received in shelters to people who for various reasons were homeless during the confinement... Well, I think it's a government that already has a plan, a program and a clear direction. I believe that we are faced with an initiative that they may have presented in other autonomous parliaments. I don't know. But we have not seen it appropriate for Euskadi, and that is why we have not been able to reach an agreement. In short, for moments, reading the initiative, more than once we have had the impression that it was a smokescreen, to try to cover up another series of realities of our own. That is why we have tabled the corresponding amendment. And it's been... Well, we haven't been able to reach an agreement, but I don't rule out that in the future we can come to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u37	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Passing on the answers, Mr Martínez Izón has the word together.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u38	First of all, I agree with Mrs. Larrea's initial words. And also, for us, we are not agreed in the affairs of a certain structure, namely, that there is no such thing as the influence or consistency of a non-profit economic system in general poverty and poverty. "A la señora Kortaja, we must thank you first for our agreement: We agreed to the transferation of your legal proposition, and then we didn't have the opportunity to discuss and correct us, but that's the point of agreement. Eta, gero, Gobernua sustangatzen duten alderdien bozeramaileekin, recognize, recognize that there are problems, but there are no changes. If you read the initiative and review what I have said throughout my speech, not what we all have prepared before, you will see that at no time have we said here that there is nothing or everything does not work, but that we have said: there are a number of instruments that we intend to improve them. In the negotiation, one of the proposals we have been made is to address everything in the framework of income guarantee income reform... Well, it will come; let's wait, but let's wait, and you know that, from our group, if it's to expand rights, lighten bureaucracy and allow more people to access, although the ideal would be for our economic system to produce and distribute wealth, so that no one has to access those benefits, we will be there. But the initiative... You said, Mr. Andueza, we agreed on the concern. Yes... the theme is to deepen on what is being done and improve on what is being done. And Mr. Urrutia said coordination! That coordination must be improved, if not, by talking to your municipalities, not to other municipalities, but to those who govern you, and by listening to the requests and complaints you make from those municipalities. Not a single mention, however, of what we were practically talking about in your amendment. And then, with many things that Mr Andueza has said, we can agree. Many initiatives in this Parliament, not only in the legislature in which our political space was not represented in this Parliament, but also through our initiatives in municipalities and parliaments we bring to the institutions, and through their government action and our action in the government, have been launched. No one is denying that; what we are saying is that we need to improve it. And no, Mr Urrutia, it has not been a churro initiative, presented in other autonomous parliaments. I think he's brought it in... he's read all his intervention very well, he's brought it from home, and he hasn't made the effort to counter it. I think... I was going to say something else; but, in some sense, I do have to say that it practically doesn't matter – I was going to say it differently, but I'm going to say it like that – everything we present. Then, the lehendakari Urkullu meets with our spokespersons, and tells us, "We are ready for the deal." And he gives us some documents with coincidences, but then we get here and not one, not one, not the big ones. I mean, EH Bildu presents a bill, and I can understand: a bill – I can understand – is more complicated. But a non-law proposition that's looking to improve what's... And then, an awareness campaign, Mr. Urrutia. Consumer skills: European Union, governments of States and, in our case, autonomous communities. The competence of the Basque Government in the field of consumption should also be reviewed. It was up to the Ministry of Consumer Affairs and the Council of Ministers to approve what it had adopted, the actual decree of vulnerable consumers. A permanent information campaign has also been made – and is being carried out – but it is a pity that Mr Hurtado is not here, because Mr Hurtado was meeting with Mr Garzón, preparing precisely these things. I am surprised at this; I am surprised that we have not even been able to agree and have been scorned to carry out a campaign to raise awareness of vulnerable consumers, when it is a matter that is being worked out between the Spanish Government and the Basque Government. Because that figure of the vulnerable consumer is a shared competition, which comes from the European Union, passes through the states and is managed from the regions, nations, autonomous communities... – as everyone feels more comfortable. And it is that, when we talk about the need for an awareness campaign, if we go to the Kontsumobide portal, here the data [Paper bat erakutsi du], there is not only reference to the new vulnerable consumer figure that is approved in January. It could have been improved. And I'm sure Mr. Hurtado is working on it, but neither a mention nor an agreement on it. Why could an agreement on this matter not be possible? Or the information in Irekia [Best paper bat erakutsi du], about the electric social bonus is from when it was approved in 2017, not from any of the updates that have occurred during the year 2020 nor the new figure of the vulnerable consumer. I say: if not even in that, in carrying out an information campaign so that citizens can access what belongs to them by law and by law, we can agree, I have to think that it gives them absolutely the same thing that, from the opposition parties, we present in this House.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u39	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. The representative of the Basque Populara-Ciudadans must not speak a word. The representative of the EH Group, of the Kortah, is your word. She talked off her phone... the head of the table.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u40	I've been struck by the attitude of groups supporting the government. When debates are planned from a general point of view, you answer with certain measures. As today, if he goes to concrete measures, and there is a plan based upon concrete measures, you reply to a general point of view of discussion. And here both the lords and the distant lords have mentioned some things about the subject, but in general have you been talking about other things, haven't you? And in the meantime, the number of people living in this situation, and the way to mistake it. You mention the facts of Social Incest, too, Mr. Faraway, don't you? And data is stubborn. And so obstinate are the facts shown that the almost greater number of indicators which have been examined in these examinations of poverty show that almost the greatest part of the indicators have been mistaken in this study, and that in those which we are speaking to-day, we have far worse facts than the state and Europe. And it also shows that we are talking about a vital experience that nearly 200,000 people live. And the facts show what the result of the answers that have been active, and I have said before, and I shall mention: the distance from the poverty of people who did not leave poverty at 2016%, 20.6th to 2018. They have left the threshold of poverty; they are poorer. So we're talking about a situation that's very real, a very real experience. And the answers that are articulated, the facts... they show us that they are not sufficient, and that they do not answer sufficiently, because it is also a rising phenomenon. And Louis Salzous himself, when he introduced us to the incest of poverty, said that this was one of the black points of our poverty. I think, in that sense, we have a responsibility for programs that are made and programs that start, apart from being here on the chest... Some of them have been tested on the subject, because far away, Mr. Fara, they have nothing to do with the subject of other programmes you have here mentioned. It's the ones that have nothing to do with it! And I've mentioned it before. What do the polls do for? These polls that have to be performed must be guided by public policy. And we're talking about some support that's made from 2017, and, from time to time, we're talking about a program that's in 40,000 euros. That's what we're talking about. Yeah? You have mentioned, yes, that the general amount of the AES has increased. Yeah. But that has no effect on people who live under a kind of poverty or other conditions. For you know, hitherto, that these games of the AES are always short in all the town halls, and I believe that Madame Larre has also spoken of the games of AES which the municipal assemblies formed. But what comes to people is that maxim in $900 euros, it's made out since 2017. A lot has happened since 2017. In the meantime, you, Mr. Faraway, are here complaining of the price of the electric bill. Things have changed. And, as has been said before, the system of social armor must adapt, adapt to reality, adapt to reality, get to be updated, answer them... to be able to adapt to reality and give answers to the size of it. Convered from 2017. And then there's that specific program of the Red Cross of 200,000. We know what's going on with this program, and what they're giving us, and what's the result. So today we were talking about very particular things. That's quite a matter of fact. We have not penetrated too much into the details: We didn't say how much to raise, how much that maxim must be... That's not what we're in. But not even that. Not even that one. To achieve different goals by doing the same thing, that's not realistic.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours. Abundance, Mr Lorenzo: The lady of the Kortja said that we've been in the general business of the two teams that support the government, and that, when we discuss things exactly, we act in general. And I think, at least, in my interference, I have done the opposite. For the first time, I have said, more precisely, this discussion of the Basque Act, how many things have been done, how many things have been made, and where these things and games have been formed, and how they have increased. And there was only one thing left for me to put on: That's what I didn't mention, but I've mentioned all the others. Finally, I believe that it is absolutely undeniable, and that was my wish, that, if anyone has put on the table and brought the debate on energy poverty to this Parliament, we have been the Socialists. And if there are concrete measures that have been put in place to alleviate this problem, which I am obviously not going to be the one to say that it does not exist, because I have acknowledged that it is, of course, the Socialists. That is why I have endeavoured to derail each and every one of the measures and policies that have been put in place in this country, in Euskadi, and in Spain, and that have come at the hands of the Socialists, in order to try to alleviate this problem. Another thing is that you don't want to recognize that. But it is a tangible and objective reality, which, in my speech, I have wanted to highlight. Mr Martínez said: they recognize that there is a problem and there are no changes. Yes, of course there are changes; of course there have been changes. And since 2013, which was the first time that this House has debated this issue, so far, I have told you absolutely everything that has changed. In recent times, I have also told you what changes have taken place, especially since the arrival of the Socialist Government in the Spanish Government, since that very moment. And now what is our role, from the Basque Government, from the two groups that we support this Government? Indeed, there is a very important role for the municipalities and for the parliaments. Town halls, in which, in many of them – those that mainly comprise the highest percentage of the population – we are the Socialists, many of them led by us, and deputies, in which we also participate. I have already told you what measures, for example, have been taken by the Gipuzkoa Parliament in a department led, I repeat, by the Socialists. And of course the role of the municipalities is important, because in many cases – and not now, even long before 2013 – it is the ones that complement the social emergency aid, when the funds allocated by the Basque Government do not arrive. It's the city halls. It is also necessary to highlight the role played by the municipalities as a first-line service, of first order, in identifying certain situations, in dealing with and, of course, in facilitating those citizens who have, so that they know that they have a number of benefits, a number of aids, so that they can benefit from them. And in support of processing, of course, they have a very important role to play. It will not be us who deny it, among other things, because we have participated in that system, because we have built that system and because we are making it possible for that to continue to happen. As I said, delving into what is being done is precisely what Mr Urrutia and I have done in our speeches. And I do not want to reiterate what Mr Urrutia has said. But, of course, we, as far as our powers as a party in all governments are concerned, are doing everything in our hands. And Mr. Hurtado was meeting with Mr. Garzón. Now, I will also tell you one thing: Mr Hurtado has a specific campaign on the issue of energy poverty, which Mr Garzón does not have. Mr Garzón, in his campaign, talks about vulnerable consumers, but not specifically about those citizens who are at risk of, or are suffering from, energy poverty. What I will, of course, never fail to do is to highlight what the Socialists are doing in all the governments in which we are participating. And, of course, we are concerned about this situation. Of course, we are aware of the gravity of the situation that many people are experiencing. But, of course, no government, let alone those in which the Socialists are participating, can be denied commitment, progress and, of course, work to try to alleviate these situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u42	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. It is a mark to be exact when it must be general, and to be exact! That will have some merit, but whether I am more concrete this time. Mrs Larrea, you said you were dealing with this whole issue with the idea of "less than a stone." And I believe that we have never addressed either the issue or the subject of social services or the things or issues relating to poverty, etc., with the mentality of "less than a stone". Recently, my colleague, Mrs Arrizabalaga, published an article in the press, in which she compared quantities with countries, from which – we usually say – we want to look. And certainly, for example, in terms of quantities, we were much, much more, above. You have spoken of reforming the system, of the need for generic reflection. Yeah, and I think... I hope that the reform of the Income Guarantee Act, income guarantee income, will come soon. And I believe that within that framework we will be able to carry out the appropriate reflections and reforms. And he said if we were satisfied... Man, yes; we are satisfied with the system we have. That does not mean that there are no problems or aspects to be reformed. Madame Kortja's, look, you've talked about winter. I understand that the friends of social distress have not affected them, because the councils have to complete them. Well, I know a few councils, and they don't belong to the Jestric Party of the South, and they don't come to the completion of it. But surely all cases will not be the same. Iola era, Iola era... Begira, duella gutxi aukera izan nuen Joseba Zalakain jaunak Gipuzkoako Batzar Nagusietan esandakoa irakurtzeko. Eta honako hau esaten zuen: "When we talked about poverty and inequality in Gipuzkoa and that Gipuzkoa is one of the territories with the lowest inequality in Europe, that is, in part, thanks to the social protection model that we have in Euskadi". "But it is also true that the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation – Gipuzkoari buruz hitz egiten dut – has as one of its objectives to reduce inequality; to be a territory with lower rates of inequality. And I do think... –hor Euskadiri buruz doa–, and I do believe that progress in reducing inequality in Euskadi is difficult, when you have relatively low inequality rates, and that I think we have to recognize." Iruditzen finds out about her, party analysis his, and behin bath gehiagotan hitz egin dugu aditu horri buruz. Mr Martínez, you spoke in your first speech about Iberdrola, that you have no idea how many millions of benefits, and, in part of my speech, I have dedicated myself to telling you that you have a good opportunity to do in the Government, in Madrid, what you are asking to do here, because I remember a video of Mrs Irene Montero, to say one, to mention one, who is at risk microphone said: "Only if you govern United We can sit the chiefs of the electrics on a table and tell them 'the bill of light is going to go down, and therefore their benefits are not going to disappear, they are only going to go down a bit, so that people have a bill of the light that they can pay'". I repeat it one more time: go ahead! I don't think I find any kind of obstacle in the Basque Nationalist Party if they go that way and if they get the bill down from the light. And yes, I am going to tell you one thing: look, I read what the groups present and I hear what the different spokespersons say. And I bring it prepared from home, basically, because I like to prepare the topics. You talked about the vulnerable consumer aspect, and they told us to listen to the city halls. You may hear the complaints that exist about the difficulty in applying and managing those figures, the bonus and so on, which came out from Royal Decree 30/2020, because the truth is that, really, as far as the autonomous communities are concerned, and if my information is correct about ours, you do what you do, basically, use the working structure of autonomy, because you do not have one of your own.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u44	Please finish...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u45	On the competitions – Bai, Hau da Azkena – and on the re-centralizing passion, we will talk another day, because I have run out of time... Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u46	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Now that we've finished arguing, we're gonna vote together with Podemos-Nozzer Antherz and EH Collector's semi-direction signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 41; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 41; the Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u47	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadans. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 41; the votes given, 74; the supporters 7; the contrary were 40; the charges were 27; the whites would be 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u48	So it's not accepted. And in the end, we vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and of the Euccanists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 41; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 40; the opponents 34; the abstations, 0; white, 0.1,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u49	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Populare of Euscal-Ciudadnos, as a parlamentary group, as to demand that in the Universitys of the Esska Autonomy, the Schools of the Esquire, the figure of the School-keeper. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Gil's word is the representative of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadanos to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u50	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. We propose to this House today the introduction of a relatively new figure, although we will now see that it has a long history, the figure of the school nurse in all educational establishments in the Basque Autonomous Community. [From now on, if it seems to you I will use the term nurse, instead of nurse, in attention to the massive feminization of this profession and in tribute to the many women who carry out this important work, although I obviously include in this term the men who also carry out this nursing work]. Some of you may feel that this figure is not strictly necessary, but the existence of a nurse in each school is not a luxury; it is a necessity, and much more in the current circumstances, not only because it will save suffering and health economic costs – yes, it will save money – but also because it will help decongest health centres and will have a positive impact on the quality of life of the entire educational community. Educational institutions are the place where students spend most of their day, and families need adequate health care in them. The school nurse can be defined as the health professional, a professional qualified in nursing, who, within the educational center and in accordance with its educational project, is responsible for providing health education, assistance and also the advice necessary to meet the health needs of the entire educational community, in order to optimize the health of all its members. The current covid pandemic has demonstrated its urgent need, its imperative need at this very moment, but its convenience was already evident for a long time, and certainly this proposal goes beyond the circumstances of the current pandemic. In fact, this subject has a long, rather long history. This began about two centuries ago, when Dr. Malcolm Moris raised the need for such a figure at the Congress of Hygiene and Demography, held in London in 1891. I regret that we are still here today discussing whether or not this is necessary. We have been, in that sense, two centuries behind schedule. In France, Switzerland, England and the United States, the school nurse is usually present at educational centres. In these countries the figure of this health professional is a reference within the school, accessible to all members who make up the educational field. The school nurse in these countries carries out a promotional, educational, preventive, clinical and care activity. It was in 1899 that the main functions of this profession were established in England, during the first meeting of the Society of School Nurses, which included the care of illnesses and hygiene, the supervision of homes and the family environment, the prevention of infectious and non-infectious diseases, the early detection of pathologies and the conduct of medical inspections in the classrooms. In 1902, the first known school nurse in history appeared in New York City in 1902!: Lina Rogers. This nurse and her assistant, to whom we can pay a certain tribute from here today, attended, with very limited resources, about 10,000 children from four different schools for 30 days. Actually, it was a social work, but it was also an experiment. Rogers examined children with hearing, learning problems and encouraged proper hygiene patterns among the families of these children, as well as disease prevention. After a month, the results of the study showed that the benefits were clearly evident. A clear decline in school absenteeism was noted and, for this reason, the figure of the school nurse was established within the New York educational centres, reaching the number of 400 school nurses as early as 1914. In Europe, the first data on school nurse arise in England. It was there that the Medical Health Service was created in 1907. And the following year, the Education Act was enacted, which involved the consolidation of the school nurse also in countries such as Scotland or Sweden. In Spain, the figure of the school nurse, as is now known, appears about 30 years ago at the Madrid Public Special Education Centers. The pioneer institution in Spain in the implementation of this health professional is the current María Soriano Public School of Special Education. And since then, there has been a long history of legislative progress in the different autonomous communities. Today, the school nurse is considered an emerging profile in our country. This professional figure is supported by the Organic Education Act, which establishes the general principles of education for the whole State. One example is Madrid, where there are currently about 600 school nurses. The Community of Madrid is where the figure of this health professional is most implemented, but it is not the only one. In communities such as Castilla-La Mancha or Castilla and León there are nurses in some schools, and in others, such as Murcia or Valencia, there is also a progressive implementation of these health professionals. It should be noted that the school nurse is a subject that has been discussed in almost all autonomous parliaments. Currently, it is only legislated in Madrid and Valencia. And it is very curious, by the way, to see the constellation of votes of the different parties in the different parliaments, which clearly shows that it is a figure that produces some confusion. I mean, there are still people who are not clear, but this seems to me to be an unstoppable and irremediable path. But, to clarify this, because there is always the problem of is it strictly necessary? We should also clarify the possible functions of a figure of this type in a school... Anyway, in order for us to have a rough idea, I'm going to mention a little list: One: it can collaborate in the design and implementation of the socio-health aspects of the educational project of the center; an aspect that is obvious in some projects. Two: you can make proposals for the inclusion of appropriate teaching content at each level. You can take care of emergency health problems, loss of consciousness, a wound, headache, stomach discomfort, mild trauma, many of which, if they are to be attended by the health center, require delays, moved, etc., and are mild things that can be attended to at the time, in the same way that happens in any workplace. Attention and follow-up of chronic diseases, such as diabetes, asthma, allergies, epilepsy, etc., that students have or teachers have. Five: prevention of unwanted pregnancies, sexually transmitted diseases. Six: attention to students who may have symptoms of bullying or abuse or violence, both at school and in their homes; and teacher training to be alert to these symptoms. Development of workshops on nutrition, drug prevention, food, hygiene, sex education... Appropriate use of the medication. [In short, it is a virtually endless list of possible things that can contribute]. Advice to the educational institution on the adoption of special adaptation measures that may be needed by some children, due to their special social or health circumstances. Coordination and collaboration of the educational centre with the health centres of its community. Conduct of epidemiological studies with the educational community; design of school menus; advice on the safety of physical or laboratory education practices. Control and management of epidemics and contagious diseases in the centre. "Let us remember the great problem of capillary parasites, recurrent in all centers every year." Follow-up of students who, for health reasons, are hospitalized or at home. Anyway, I mentioned 14, but the truth is we could mention 140. Beyond these usual tasks, the regulations of the current covid pandemic have forced schools to have a reference figure, which, on many occasions, has had to be occupied by teaching or administrative staff without the necessary qualification, and upon them have fallen decisions such as opening and closing classrooms, evaluating student symptoms, adapting health measures of prevention, isolation, etc., functions for which they were obviously not prepared and which have had to overlap with their usual responsibilities. Undoubtedly, having counted the centers with a school nurse already in place, the chaos, confusion and delays that have been experienced in some centers would have been avoided and, no doubt, they would have had a positive impact on the evolution of the pandemic. I repeat, if we do not argue, if we do not question the fact that in the workplace there is a medical service – which not only has nurses, but in many cases also has a doctor – why in the schools, where there are sometimes more people and with greater needs, this is not clear. Recalling the functions we just described a moment ago for a figure of this type, it is evident that these cannot be covered with partial care from the health centre. A lot of overload already has nurses in primary care centers, as to, on top, carry on their shoulders with responsibilities and added tasks. Obviously, if we're going to try to solve it from health centers, we're not going to cover these needs; we're going to make some kind of patch to go shooting. We are not talking about this; we are talking about providing, from the Department of Education, each educational center with a nursing professional, with new recruitments; we are not talking about the same nurses in health centers overloading them with more work. That is not the approach, among other things, because the workplace is important. In other words, it is difficult for the needs of the centre to be met from the outpatient clinic, because, among other things, the dynamics of the centre are not directly lived: they are not working there, they are not fully known to the members of the educational community and their needs. In short, it is a matter of a person, a figure, for whom the health care of the educational institution is his first and only priority, and not only when an incident occurs, but rather working in advance, to prevent accidents or to prevent incidents. Therefore, we are not asking nurses – let's be clear – to work more than in health centers – forgiveness, more with schools – but we are talking about opening up a new job market for nursing professionals, in which they will find interesting professional opportunities that now do not exist for them. And this is not a proposal with political content, or at least we have not made it with that intention. I do not think it has any ideological burden, but we have done it by thinking about society, thinking about schools, thinking about children, thinking about their families and the needs of citizens, especially school children, he said, who are perhaps the most vulnerable. I am convinced that the figure of the school nurse will eventually open up, sooner rather than later, as soon as this House becomes properly aware. The pity is that while we are wasting precious time implementing an initiative, which, as we have already said, improves the quality of education, we believe it improves the health of school communities and believe it saves money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u51	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Passing the corrections into the groups they've submitted together, Mrs. González, representing the Antzar team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u52	Thank you, ma'am. And good noon to all. He reminded me of today's subjects, when our daughters were small, when children and prime education were learning, when we shared the snacks and conversations we shared with other families at the school playground. We were very worried about the children's illness, the nourishment, and we often wondered about the catering in the dining room, the alergies, and often we talked about visiting the pediatrice. At the time of the vaccines, as the day drew near, we had the nervousness of our children. And that was the only day we thought that someone in health would come to school. But the vaccination was not the only time, and for years we had been worried by our parents, and we began to talk about the Czech Argian and the nurse of Rachel Betiana in the region. In these forms we discussed all sorts of matters: the first aids, allergies, the usual problems and vaccines of the skin. Then they would arrive: repentance, the habits and effects of bad nourishment, etc. And for this reason their presence was becoming more and more familiar at school. So we worked very closely with the first group of attentions, so that all the members of the community (the professors, our children and families) considered it normal to see the workers of health at school. In fact, these workers had even been talking to our children about sexual training and dependence. Unfortunately, that's the past. It's been a few years since we met at school. There's a lot of reason for that, but the boss, no doubt, is the cuts that RedMedon has made on first-minute services. The effect of this plague and that which was brought about by it is just what new protocols have been produced in the students' schools has reminded us of how necessary these medical requirements are in our schools. In the opinion of the People of Uidas together of Podemos, it is indispensable that they should give proper answers to the wants of the schools in health and prevention. This response must be given by improved medical attention services, and the only measure is not to put on health labour. In a few words, an irresistible answer, but even a social answer, which will enable us to improve, encourage, help, perceive, and take care of. The discussion arises from this, because these wants were not well fulfilled, and it is now indispensable to improve them. At this time when the plague of COVID-19 fills everything, we cannot forget that there are other diseases in the schools, as well as: diabetes, thickness, allergias, &c., and pathological, often, are directly connected with bad nourishment or want of body. For in the manners of the healthy man and of the disease we have great privations. It seems, therefore, to be a very important distinction of health, but always arranged from the point of view of our first attention. There are many other problems which have hitherto been mentioned, such as emotional problems, mental illnesses, bad early and early use of technology, the disadvantageous effects of sleep and repose, of dangerous conduct or of persecution or violence in health. It is absolutely necessary to discuss it, but directed from a larger point of view. We agree with the concern which the Popular-Ciudadans have given us of this matter, but their proposal is not sufficient to give a proper answer to all that is necessary. Besides, we don't think that the patterns that propose ought to be supplied only by medical services in the schools. In our opinion, he must take a fair part in the conduct of the community's parents, students, and professors, training and assistance. There are, moreover, two points which are not mentioned in this proposition, and which are essential to us; Partners and public schools. As I read the other day in an official document, community and family management was created by this purpose, that is to say, to give proper answers to the wants of society in health, and, as is well known, the school is an important part of society. But the restrictions which the first attention has suffered during the last seven years have not given the opportunity of producing this intention, much less in the present state of health. We agree with certain things of the original proposal, but not to hire health personal from education. So that's all this, we can't vote for your proposal. And that's how it is with EAJ's correction, that we're not against it, because whoever's in the government has to do it, but is doing it? We must, however, say that we have found a similar plan between the party of our corrections and the organizations of the EH Collectors, because the school health cannot be limited only to the assistance they have given it. We are fully convinced that, for the sake of good health, education must be encouraged by the first care-giver's services, especially by hired community nurses or other medical duties, who will work in ambulances, but will serve society as a whole. And if we were to behave like that, we'd see more pediats like Cherma Argonian and more nurses like Rachel Beitia in the school of our children. And if there had been no reduction in the health system for the past ten years, we should not need to announce the need for such health workers. Unfortunately, though they were good will today, it would not have been possible to approach our schools. During this brief talk, I remembered a lot of things. Let's not forget what our ancestors taught us in this tradition: that health is the property of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u53	Thank you, Mrs. González. The representative of the EH Group has the word, Mrs Garde, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. I am sure that to-day, to all the members of this chamber, even to all the citizens, the principal necessity, the primary privilege, the security of health; my own health, but above all to guarantee the health of those we love. And among them, of course, there are members of all the classes of education which meet every day in all our schools: students, workers, professional education, families... that is to say, to guarantee health in colleges during pandemia, to avoid plagues in COVID-19, and, if there were any, to control them as soon as possible, for the greater good of all, but above all for the sake of securing their presence in education, because we know of certain difficulties, and the right of education to the whole class, when we are in confidence? But today, beyond the pandemy, we are talking about the common and collective health to which we are to encourage. And what are we talking about when we say that? Well, we are talking about how to encourage healthy manners and manners in society. We are speaking of the promotion of health, of the education and formation of the citizens: in schools, in neighborhoods, in workshops, and wherever necessary. We speak of prevention rather than of curing the people, and of keeping them healthy. And this ought to be the principal aim of public health in schools: training healthy citizens. And, to do this, we have already useful tools, including many plans and programs that are working on Osacides, most of which are at the present moment indispensable because of pandemy, e.g. programs in pre-depending drug-dependency, physical activity, and wholesome nourishment-but we must go further and further into them. And all this is evidently the first question. First mindfulness, as the basis and column of all strategy. First attention to the public's health system to ensure access. First attention, for the equity, nearness, efficiency, and support of the public health system. And above all, all this must be secured during the period of crisis. We know how the entrance has been reduced to panic, how we have necessarily blocked the gates. And so there's been a lot of difficulty taking appointments, using phone and Internet relations, and non-presental consultations. And we know that all this has been hard side-effects and will have for many collectives a machine that has been waiting for the people. And if we have hitherto kept our attention on the pandemae, it has been owing to the overcoming, commitment, and courage of the health professionals. They've been keeping the system, and even at this moment they're working on it for hours, but they're tired of first care workers, and generally the workers of Osar are exhausted. We've often mentioned this since the crisis began, that we've been answering the emergency department and everything else that wasn't COVID-19 has been left on a second plane, so imagine where the promotion and prevention of health have remained, which are the fundamental columns and souls of our first attention. Well, they've stayed in the background, haven't they? But want of structure and want of structure have not reached the pandemy; perhaps they have increased, but the first wants of reorganising and strengthening their attentions have long since come. The local professionals have told us many times and for years that they feel forgotten, that they feel abandoned. In this sense, the Basque Country is essential to the Collectors for the first time to get rid of the overload and crisis, to cancel the age's abandonment, and to re-establish in their first attention the suscision and prevention of the health that is clabes. But how do we plan to do that? We wish to strengthen the public health system, from the first attention, and in the common way; that is to say, in the execution of attention: and by their hands, co-ordinately co-operated with the existing agents, institutions, associations, and other means. And inside that, of course, there are schools. And for this purpose, we need means, means, and means in our first attention. Invest, schedule, neighbourhood, and, above all, adaptation to new times. And we believe that in schools there is a great deal of work to do with the educational community and with the students: In the first works of the field the schools are to give courses; they must be classed in the midst of healthy diet exercises; they must be attended with singular attention to the mental health of the young men; they must study self-esteem and emotion in the schools. We must educate students in education, in emotional education; we must give them tools to learn how to adapt themselves to drugs; we must cultivate the subjects of consumption and dependence, as well as those of unsubstantial dependence. And now we have a serious problem with the fact that you're pathological among the young people, and that's where we have to influence them. And to operate on it, we have to operate on mental health, we have to operate on schools, and so on. The chances we have in our education of health are infinite. And as he said: if we are to do all this, we must put the means together, and in the centres of the health we must increase the planes, to prevent all these new works, to encourage the common health discovery. And in this way we made a correction to another proposition like the PP-Ciudadans, and also of the middle course which we introduced to Podemos-IU together today. In that sense, I want to thank Madame Isabel González for working with me, and it's always a pleasure to work with you. And for us, in this medium there are two great lines: and secondly, because we are still present, the means of resisting COVID-19 to education. And, Mr. Gil, about your proposal, I would tell you that we can agree a little, especially with the different things you plan on, because you put focus on health suite and health education. And with that, yes, we agree. And we may also say that the first stages of education are essential to the support of wholesome manners and manners. Besides, we think it is evident that most of the customs and manners which are acquired in childhood and youth are preserved in matureness. There is, therefore, a time for education in the promotion and prevention of health. That's why we can agree with reflection, but not with the planning. As far as we're concerned, we don't have to go into all schools to medical professionals or nurses. It might perhaps be well in some other system or functional ways, but in ours, where we have a wide and powerful public health system, we do not see any concrete jurisdiction and function in this sense. So let's turn our first attention to value. Let's get that net together and get it done in education. And in order to end, the correction of EAJ seems to us in part proper. It seems to us that there is really an intention, but we would also ask that we should go beyond it, and that we should really guard our first attention, strengthen it, and do it with more means or means. And for all that, we'll protect our middle-town today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u55	Thank you, Mrs Garde. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u56	Good morning. I want to start by saying that I want to believe in the good intention of the proposer, regarding the need for a school nurse in each centre. Of course! Opinion that I share in part with which – I too have bothered to make a journey to get to know the opinions of the different professionals –... The Satse Nursing Union also defends the figure of the school nurse, with the premise of getting everyone to benefit from the care work, and defends a school nurse model, which, however, I have to say – because that is the reality – that there is no school nurse model, neither private nor public, at this time, that is a reality. You referred to Dr. Moris, who first implanted the figure of the school nurse. But it would also be good to remember that it was done because at that time there was no public health that could be called as such; it was the jungle. And, therefore, the centers they had, which were not all, school nurse became a kind of safeguard, in front of the jungle that existed outside, which was no kind of health care. The model proposed by the Nursing Union – and here, in part, the PP – is not established, Mr Gil, and does not exist in any autonomous community, in any one. The model of a school nurse associated with each educational institution and depending on Health, which is what they propose, and not Education, does not exist. It is true that the concept is somewhat more internalized in some communities. It has been implemented almost anecdotally, because the 600 nurses in Madrid account for 20% of the community's schools; no more. And in this case, they depend on Education, not on Health, as the nursing professionals claim, at least those of Satse. And it has been done in the Autonomous Community of Madrid, as you said; also in Catalonia it has been made some pinito, and also in the Canary Islands, in a very partial way and with another different model. And, in any case, I understand that it is an option for schools, but we understand that, in our case, it is not the most convenient. In fact, in the Basque Country this matter has been regulated since 29 November 2005, when the Basque Government approved an action programme to meet the school population with specific health needs, on the proposal of the education, university and research councillors, and Health. The agreement already provided for the establishment of working groups for the elaboration of protocols for teachers, with regard to health needs in the school context and the provision of medication, something that was also referred to by the representative of Podemos and Bildu, because it is also important to train teachers, and health education programmes according to educational levels, as well as training and counselling activities in relation to certain diseases and in emergency situations, aimed at teachers. With some basic premises: the health system must ensure the assistance of the entire school population and acts as a rule through health centres, and the education system and those working there have no task of providing health care to pupils, except in cases of vital urgency. In addition, there are a number of protocols that allow for an educational-sanitary routine in urgent cases, through the voluntary collaboration of the teacher, following the delegation of express authority by the father or guardian of each student in a special health situation, and with the adoption of exceptional measures, after the specific assessment in each case. Once a child's health problem has been identified, the parent or guardian shall inform the management of the centre, with explicit indication of the modalities of the health problem and the procedures and dosages, if necessary. And the Centre's Directorate, if it was not able to resolve with its own resources, comes into contact with the director of the health region in which the Centre is located, who will arbitrate the appropriate operational measure. There is a specific protocol for health emergency care, and there is a protocol, even more concrete, for some specialties, such as... – sorry – for some conditions, such as diabetes, for example, which is also published. And this is an example of what is usually happening in schools. Active and permanent coordination between each educational centre and its nearest primary care centre. That seems to us to be the best model. And that is the model for which the Ministry of Health and the vast majority of the autonomous communities have also chosen, regardless of the political colour that each has. It is for this reason that the Nursing Union itself, to which I referred earlier, recognizes that there are currently only two autonomous communities, Madrid and Catalonia, and partly Canary Islands, that have opted for the system of implementation of the school nurse, as I said before, although in the three communities mentioned above the implementation has been practically symbolic and only in some centers. In the current pandemic situation, we understand, on the one hand, that public health services become absolutely fundamental to dealing with the covid. The majority of policy and health officials understand that resources should now go towards strengthening primary care services, which are the most important for effective fighting against the pandemic also in schools. And, on the other hand, if anything has been shown during this pandemic, it is that schools have been one of the places, fortunately, less affected by problems of contagion between children and teachers. In fact, so much of the classrooms closed for this reason have been closed in a very low percentage, I would say, almost anecdotal. And, in this sense, I do want to highlight and thank the enormous effort that both teaching and non-teaching professionals have made in schools to implement all the necessary measures, both from an organizational and control point of view. For this reason, Basque Socialists and Nationalists have opted for the introduction of a joint amendment, which highlights the work carried out by all schools in Euskadi and the proper coordination of each school with its reference OSI. It works! It worked well, because there have been cases. And when one thing works, you have to explore all your possibilities, without going into adventures. I do not deny you the virtuality that yours may have, but I believe that our model is an effective model and that it is working. And, in any case, what needs to be strengthened are, as I said, primary care services, on which this coordination work with schools depends. We believe that it is best served at the moment, to optimize both educational and health resources and to tackle, in the best way possible, the pandemic that we suffer. That is why we are going to support the amendment that we have made to the Basque Socialists and Nationalists. And, of course, with great regret, we will not support the initiative that you have presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u57	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mrs. Arrivalga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief bureau, congressmen, good morning to all. I'd like to begin by confessing to all the nurses who've been working on this last mad year's tour and who's been working on it. Professional nurses have a number of jobs, they've been mentioned. And among them, as the original initiative expresses, there is the promotion and education of health. The education of health, as any combination of information and education, wants to be healthy, to know how to achieve health, how they do what they can to preserve health, to which they carry us into a state where they want help. The World Organization for Healthe had long ago remarked that in the Schools the necessity of encouraging the health of children, and that health was also a fundamental right of man. This idea itself was confirmed two years later in the 25th article of the Human Rights Constitution. health, therefore, is not merely a function of scientists and doctors, nor a purely scientific problem, nor a lack of disease. In the defense of health and in the promotement, every professional person must participate, and they must all give their own special knowledge. But above all, health is a responsibility to each and every community. And from as soon as possible, from childhood, we must penetrate this concept, and this system of education is one of the instruments of many others. In programing the medical education of the schools, we must consider the following of the concepts of health: health must live more and more autonomously, in a more solid and sweeter manner. There is a connection between health, education, quality of life and economic fertility. The knowledge, which is adapted to attain a proper state of health, will open to children the means necessary to be the leading of the changes of health in the field of the community, by providing values, competitions, and customs. For Euskadi, this view is not new. Thanks to the law of school health, it's been established for the first time, a program called the Medical School for our entire education system, we're talking about the year 1982. And there was this: "Furthering, seeing health in its full extent, is intended to frame its actions by way of anticipation and resistance. In what manner, and in what manner, classes form one of the greatest parts of the community. The law of the school will have an effective tool for doing good, seeing this health in its most comprehensive health, and in it they are essential to the establishment of health, without neglecting any of the fields of sycopelagoji or medical education." Since 82, some of these programmes have gone to meet him from the medical centres, in the constant co-worker of the Board of Education and the Medical Department. You know, it's like, "You know, it's like this thing, it's strong." It's only about studying the projects of government over the past times to confirm it. He tries to guarantee you the social policies that make up the society of our welfare and which cost us so much to build, knowing that all government policies and activities are human beings. With special attention to the weakest groups, it has always been the priority to guarantee the effective and physical health system, which will triumph the prevention and promote the culture of health, based on the principles of universality, solidarity, equity, efficiency, quality, and community. And in that furrow, for instance, the last medical plan has been gone. And the effects of all that we can take today. So, Mrs. Gonz, she's doing it. I grant you a yes. The hope of life is one of the greatest in the world, both for men and women, and which is more important: the hope of unmovable life has risen in both sexes. It must be remarked that we've all made our efforts to get to the medical results of the Basques. Yet in our society there are social social social conditions of social social social social social social social social social social social social social equality, and these distinctions result in the weaker groups. The contemplation of the future means, therefore, that we come to the conditioning of health to produce the health of men upon every element, which, in all politics, is to be taken. With this reality, it must be remembered that our society has more and more information, that men are more and more engaged with health, that men are more and more prone to the hopes and demands of health and public resources. And it can't be otherwise now, because we're talking about one of the most important columns of the welfare of our society. Mr Gil, you cannot compare the society of the beginning of the last century with your needs today. I've heard a lot of very old members here today, and many of them, a lot of things discussed here today, we think we've been over here a long time, Euskadin. However, as regards this letter of Ottawa, mentioned by Mr. Gil, we believe health to be a share in all the institutions, and so it is. For in this way, by the political action of the institutions, whatever the field may be, we shall raise it upon health, and, after all, we shall assist in increasing the welfare of the people. Health in every policy. All this is the best investment. That's how Ralph Emerson thought, and so do we: health is the most important thing in the world. To promote health, and to prevent diseases, is also to consider it as a priority, and to promote, properly speaking, healthy life-styles from youth. Our wager is that the agreement between all the organizations and sectors that may produce or influence the good health of the people is that they continue to promote sharing, co-operation, union, union, and interaction; that is, indirectity. Y más, si cabe, enka de una pandemia mundial; ya lo recoge el privato de los principios del de Gobierno para statelature: "The COVID-19 pandemic has been a turning point, with respect to the health needs of the population and health policy priorities according to pathologies, health risks and social groups. There is a need to address the updating of policy and government instruments on health in the light of new threats experienced. Therefore, together with the immediate attention given to the emergencies presented in the evolution of the disease, the emergency situation has re-emphasized the need to further deepen the paradigm shift initiated more than a decade ago, uniting the health and the social, and incorporating the health perspective into all policies." And since this is the end of all things, how is it possible to act? How's it goin'? The Board of Education? The way in which it operates in Euskadi today is based on the coordination framework already established by the Department of Health, since 2006, for special health care during school hours –eta bukatzera noa, president andrea. We have already advanced it to the proposing group: we do not share this need to implement the figure of nurse or school nurse, and therefore not to convert his figure as referent. If one thing we have learned during this crisis is that coordination with the ISOs, with the corresponding primary care, works. The public health system in Euskadi has shown that it has sufficient muscle and a solid structure to deal with the pandemic, on the one hand, and to continue to develop the rest of the previous issues, such as attending to the centres, on the other. And it is not that we believe it to be a luxury, Mr Gil; we have not believed it now or in previous legislatures, when initiatives very similar to this have come to our hands, and it is that we believe it is more convenient to continue working in collaboration with health centres, to meet specific health needs. Specific protocols are being developed on a permanent basis to improve the care of certain diseases and their management – Mr Pastor commented on the diabetes protocol – and the same with other departments or entities, to respond to all that list of functions that Mr Gil has listed here. It is a matter of working together – I repeat – in a cross-cutting way. And it's done well; it's a model that works. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. The next round of the band that hasn't issued any corrections, Miss Mist, Mrs Martínnez, yours de.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Trapped over time, this is how nurses who believe in community nursing are found as a fundamental service that the health system must provide to citizens. Education, health promotion, close contact with the community, tasks which, moreover, lack specific regulation and which, according to many of those affected, have a very strong voluntary character. Trapped in time, raising claims in the sense that today the People-Citizens group brings to this House, and as the Satse Nursing Union insistently does. From Vox, we make a fiery defense of the school nurse, of the collaboration between educational and health administrations. A demand that this pandemic has also become urgent and that today, I repeat, is of the greatest need. But we cannot avoid another problem, another reality, which is repeated by the legislature after the legislature: the shortage of nursing professionals in Spain, and in a very special way in the Basque Country. And this leads us to another question that is repeated also in time, that demand of a certain linguistic profile in Euskadi, a profile that does not heal, but that is the door to work. This leads us to a dead end. We know the role that nurses can play in schools: they promote positive responsibility of students; they promote health and responsibility; they act in the face of real health problems; and they manage specific cases, more in these times of contagion and close contacts. But we also know about the shortage of professionals. What do we do? I would say that the first thing is to open the door to all nurses who want to work in the Basque Country, speak or do not speak Basque. Then, this government should make a commitment decided by the community nurse, to recognize new roles for nurses, and to give them a more deserved role in our health care system. And then we talk about school nurses, about the much work they can do in our schools, about the service they can provide to our children and to society as a whole. In this House, we talk a lot about inclusive education: we have to bear in mind that there are more and more children with different health problems, and it is good to have a nurse who can help them, to continue to influence this inclusive education. Having said that, let's see where we're going. A sensible PNL, which is doomed to failure, to die crushed under the apisonator of this absolute majority, deaf to everything that comes from the opposition. We all know that neither Bildu nor Podemos will ever support this initiative for linguistic imposition, and the parties supporting the Government will push forward their amendment, so that everything will remain as it has been, to continue doing, to continue articulating, to continue strengthening, to continue strengthening, words that they very much like to use in all their amendments. It is his way of telling us that everything is fine, that we are on the right track; that the demands of professionals, of trade unions, of all opposition groups are meaningless. Teachers should be dedicated to teaching, and primary care professionals were overburdened and unable to absorb more care burden from educational institutions. Failure to incorporate a school nurse can be a political uncertainty that can have enormous health, social and economic consequences. Time will give and take away reasons, and we can never say we didn't see it coming.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u61	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing the answer round, representative of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadans, Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u62	Thank you, Madam President. I am glad that we have succeeded in agreeing, as a result of this debate, that health care must be strengthened in educational establishments. Something's something! Looks like we need to move slowly. The difference is whether we do that improvement, or whether we do that health care, from educational institutions, or whether we do it from outpatient clinics. For what I said: outpatient clinics simply cannot, it is not realistic; that is, outpatient clinics are limiting themselves to doing what is urgent, what is essential. No, I was talking about something else, I was talking about other functions, which I've listed one by one. Obviously, they can't do that in health centers; it's obvious. So, what we're saying is no to that. No, of course... On the other hand, they tell us: no, but it is important to include parenting as well. Of course, of course, of course: no problem. But that's not going to be done either by the outpatients, eh; I mean they have enough, and more now, for us to give them that job. I, the truth is that there is one thing I cannot understand: why do we all accept without any problem that there has to be a medical service in a workplace and yet it seems to us that there is no point in having it in a school? I would appreciate it if, in the second round, you would explain this to me, because it must be my own difficulty to understand the matter so I can't understand history. Because we are not talking about the school replacing, in any way, the primary care centre, the school nurse replacing the health centre. This is not the case; it is, on the contrary, about improving collaboration, about making things better, about having a link, about having someone take care of the school from the school. Therefore, this is complementary; it is not a substitute. Remember, when you vote no, that we're saying no to a proposal that's not from the past, uh, that's from the future, that I don't know if maybe I've explained myself wrong before: when I told the story, it wasn't to explain that it was something necessary in the past, but precisely to explain that it's not an initiative that came to me tonight, but that it really has a long history behind it, and I think it's basically a proposal for the future. That is, I believe that where it has not yet been implemented is because we have not yet reached that level of maturity or that level of evolution, and I believe that in the future this will happen: I believe it is a proposal for the future. Moreover, life is turning around a lot, and I don't know if, when one day this idea is approved here, we will be the ones who are here today in the living room; perhaps not. But, I repeat, what does not seem to me to receive is that what is said is that nothing needs to be done; that everything is all right; that with what there is is enough; that we have two protocols out there for diabetes and I don't know what, and that is enough; that we don't move forward... When they vote no, we're saying this, we're saying exactly this: we're saying no to the school nurse, not to move forward, not to do more... So, we stay the way we were, okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u63	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mrs. Gonzalez, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u64	First of all, I have to thank the People-Citizens Group for bringing this up; because, as I said before, it allows us to talk about health, it allows us to talk about school health, far beyond everything that we are here every day talking about, because besides talking about school health, it is not just talking about what happens in schools, it is talking about community health, which is what I wanted to say earlier in my speech, what I have said to you and I think I have said it very clearly. We can't isolate the schools; we can't put a figure in the school and let everything that happens be cooked in the school, no: the school is another part of the community in which it is inserted. And then, from primary care, from our health centers, it is from where the issue of school health has to be addressed. We have gone to visits together: from the Education Commission, we have been in the educational inspections, we have been in the Berritzeguns, we have been in centers, and we have been asking what the figure of the school nurse seemed to them; in general, everyone says well. No one is going to be against a figure giving that service, but there is no reason for it to be a figure hired exclusively from the school level. As I say, it has to be a community approach. Community health indicators are in outpatient clinics. And, to Mr. Pastor, those collaborations that you spoke of existed; they are those that I mentioned; they are those that I met at the school stage of my daughters; they were collaborations with an outpatient clinic of a village, the outpatient clinic of the area. Collaborations that were until 2016 or 2017, more or less, when the primary care teams and, specifically, the pediatric teams had assigned that task. These collaborations existed, but as of 2016, they were cut off. They were cut off and exactly on July 28th, well... [Orri beat erakutsi du] 2014. Osakidetza eliminates the school health service in several regions of Bizkaia, in Ezkerraldea specifically. And I mentioned them, because I really knew them, I enjoyed them, I learned a lot from them, and I remember how fondly my daughters saw their pediatrician and nurse at school, as a regular thing, as a regular thing, and we all lived it with that naturalness and in a normal way. Andrea Arrizabalaga, I'm glad they know what they're doing, because if they didn't know they were doing it, they would go wrong. All I'd like to do is ask the schools, ask the schools. Are you really feeling that you're being treated? Are you feeling this help? Because, as we hear, it's like attendance is being given. I say from what I have lived and from the consultations I make in the centers I have nearby. I would like that: that a little beyond the role and further strengthening, further strengthening the competences of the student to the promotion of health and so on, is asked in the centers if this is really happening. Eta, Garde andreari, eskerrik asko. Eskerrik asko, because I believe that every time you reach an agreement you always learn something. And I, in this case, have to admit that removing the nurse word from our amendment, from our compromise amendment, was a learning. Because it is true: there are many other health figures who are in primary care and who can give this accompaniment in schools. Entonces, thank you. And that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u65	Thank you, Mrs. González. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs Garde, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. When we talk about health and education, it seems that everything is good on principle, that we'll share a lot of things and that paper takes care of everything. But, in our opinion, health is much more, and goes beyond; for example, to encourage habits of wholesome nourishment, of course, to avoid evils between children and teenagers, not only obese, but the confusion of the food-players, such as the frequent and painful regrets in adolescence. And for this we must go beyond healthy food, and we must pay attention to the mental health of the students, breaking the stigmas and taboos, and breaking the roles that are self-esteem, self-esteem. We have to move forward in our equal education. And health is also in education, for example, the exercise of a sensitive education. And as for sexual education, we have the Skolae project at Navarro, for example, which works sexuality in the integral and transberlating way. And, Mr. Gil, there's a party in the group where you're in, like the Skolae who started a court of mediatic crossing. And I'd say more: you have spoken of the necessity of nurses, of schools, and have remarked that they can do most of the work they can do during the pandemia, but in October you voted against a middle course that demanded it. There's your contradiction. And you are talking about maturity in addressing this debate, and I think we are all talking, a little bit, about common sense: where to approach the debate itself. And you have also spoken, Mr Gil, of "capillary parasites" – you can say lice; nothing happens; all of us have had it. And, of course, we are not going to put health professionals or nurses in the centers to take out lice. I don't know. And, Mrs. Arri generousga, yes, she's doing something, but it's not enough for us. The students, for example, the courses they take around the bulldoging or the drug department... According to information requests received in this week, I think, or 24... they give them the courses of an hour and a half every year to play the bulldog and the drugs. It's not enough, obviously. And therefore health in education, of course, but in fuller, multiple, and more resources, being first taken notice of, and pressing and creating nets between the community of nations and neighbors. That's the bet of EH Collect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u67	Thank you, Mrs Garde. The Socialist team shouldn't speak a word... Eubertarian, Mrs. Arriguega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u68	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Very briefly, a couple of things to discuss: First of all, Mrs. Garde commented on it, or said, to guarantee health in our schools during pandemy time, I think she said a sentence like this, not? this has been the priority, and this has been accomplished. And I think we all can say that this year has been a success, at least to reach this stage of learning in presence. At first, after a great deal of nervousness, some didn't stake for it, and it was found that it was possible and that it was achieved. And that's all we have to see today's data for. We didn't share it... Because in the sphere of primary attention, it is required that the medical professionals should be placed deep in the communal attention, to work with the schools. The first-rate medical centres are already treating all the circumstances which occur in their own country, and which relate to health in the community. And in the field of education, too, in the field of education, and anywhere else. So we really think it's done. And we really think it's all right. This pattern is successful. And I think no one can deny that. It works well. And, you know, the gangs in opposition. It works. Y cudo sece bien y funna, habá que seguir por líne, don't you know? Paraa qué changeor? Gure ustez, komenigarriagoa da osasun-zentroekiko lankidetza indartzea. Eta, lankidetza, norekin? Ba, Osasun Sailarekin eta bestelako salt edo entity batzuekin. Collaboration. I believe that Mr Gil was also talking about this, and I think that all groups have talked about collaboration, because we fully share the objective. And this is community health, Mrs González. I think we're all talking about the same thing, at all times, just that we don't share the forms. And in this case, the parties that we support the government, we believe this model is the most appropriate. Because it works, and that's how it's proven. I do not know whether we are a sufficiently mature society yet, Mr Gil; but, indeed, it has been shown that this is a working model and that we therefore understand that we must continue to support and work. We have 936 centers or schools in Basque. I don't know, Mrs. Gonz, how many times have you asked, I don't know, in order to make that concession or the contrast. I know that our chief physician, the Chief of Biltz, is gathering with everyone from the beginning, from the beginning, with all the schools, and receiving this request from the first hand. And we don't see it, so it's for a reason. But because, on the other hand, he speaks to them, and either because they receive them, or in this case that he has them, we agree with other questions which we have mentioned. And the government unites. For example, we see that it is necessary to maintain the faculties of the students, to promote health and to receive salutary habits, and to continue to strengthen the discipline of education, and, more especially, the preparation of the professors, to know the diseases of the students and the autochénomy better. We think this is where we work, so we can see the best protection of our teams in conjunction with the Socialist team. And that's where the votes are going today. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Mrs Martínnez must not speak. So, after discussion, we're going to vote for the popular Basque Group-Ciudadus-the original text of another proposal. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 41; the votes given, 74; the supporters 7; the contrary, 61; abstaining, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u70	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote together for Podemos-Nozzer and EH Collection's intermediate correction. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 41; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 47; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u71	So it's not accepted. And finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the U.S.A. patriots in the whole area that the teams present. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 41; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 40; the contrary, 7; the Abstations, 27; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u72	So it's accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposition of the parliamentary organization of the EHG, of the artist, of the creator, and of the culture-maker, of the production of multiplicity, of a power to act in harmony and extent. Discipline and final resolution. It's the caller's turn. Mr. Estarrona, the representative of the EHG, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u73	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. And thanks also to those who sit at table, if it be due to the respect we owe to our guests to follow. Good noon, everyone. And thank you, the different cultural agents you've come today, the various representatives of the cultural industrial sector, to be with us today. In the present day, of the importance of culture in our life, in our society, or in a country like ours, we are not going to speak of my own, because it is the time for us to take measures in relation to the situation we now live in, and to appreciate the measures to which they ought to answer. This, indeed, with a wider view, and not only with a glance for a short period, for the damages which the Covida has caused in the culture of culture have left it more clearly than ever, that the preparation of the cult of eucalyparchy is a matter of tenfold and of structure. This, at the moment, compels us to give quick answers and solutions, but also to take deep resolutions and measures, to create spontaneous changes, to give them a quantum leap in the culture of politics, so long and firm, so far as culture has a strategic character. It is a quantum leap, for instance, that we registered on the 12th of January, and the proposition which we brought to the discussion today is to create the influence of the artist, the creator, and the state of the cult. A field of work from plurality, from a vast participation, and from consent. As for the culture of this law, we made ten great commitments, and received our alibis, which was one of them. And here we stand, even in the defence of this enterprise, keeping our promise. And why is it important and necessary? Well, in the last study of the Eusalis of culture itself, which is called the chances of Artists and of the professionals of culture, it summarizes what we're talking about. The artistic professions have certain peculiarities, which condition the practice, and bring difficulties to the development of it according to the sphere of legislation of the present day. And between the characters of artistic work there are three different aspects: the heterogeneity of the collective, which enters into the term artist, the provisionalness of labour, and therefore is required to be additional sources of money, and uncertainty about the results of the process of creation. So there's the provisionality, impenetrability, heterogeneity, a sector based on projects, the uncertainty of the results, and so on. These features are difficult to develop according to the legislation scope. Hence, the professionals and corporations of the culture and creation require suitable conditions of scope, a specific frame which will enable and facilitate creation, by setting minimum conditions of work, by adapting a range of rules for covering and social protection, including retirement, readiness, and necessary incomes for the copyright agent, by adapting the prosecution, by improving, increasing, or regulating the options of the international selection. And though we have not the whole power to develop some of these rules, many others are in our power. Exertal problems have always been there, but especially if the opportunity and need of developing the artist's own state has been caused by pandemics, because that has been the case, and it has somehow come with a report from Congress. And I will explain: The New State of the Artist is a recommendation report to use as a legislation project. By the way, it must be said that at the present day its development is quite still. And in the South Basque Country, the application of this new state of State artist would have a direct influence on the Araba, Biscaia, and Gipuzian; for unfortunately we have not enough power to answer our reality for many years now and then. But although this state is ours and our jurisdiction, we also need it to be our own development, the other because it is the peculiarity of the state and the concursion of culture. This is why we say that the development of the natural stateal eupscal development of artists to be developed with their own characteristics is indispensable. And in this at least we think there is no dispute. But beyond the accounts of jurisdiction, to deal with and answer to the affairs beyond the tools we have, there are other elements which concern the nature of this state and the peculiar characteristics of our people. The concept can be said to be concept-prepolitical or inclus. For instance, the state of the State neglects the quality and character of euscal culture and of eucacra culture. And the state which we ought to develop here, and which is doubtless to be developed, must answer to this reality, and certainly answer it. We have no doubt of that, because there is no other. So we would like to have all competitions this year 2021, and to be able to regulate them all. But it's not like that. And in this sense the application of the Common-wealth, would here have positive, positive influence, and in this we also have it, from the principle of reality. But as it is a principle of reality, as I have said, that the state does not answer many of our systems of culture. For this reason this is not a dispute between several marks. The one, the state, excludes from the production, the artist, and the culture of industry, with its properties, and the one who includes them, and will give them an answer. The State excludes the reality and need of euscal worship, and the present will answer them too. Therefore I shall repeat again the necessity of the state of the euphora of the artists to be developed by their own characters, in which there is no doubt. And we don't think there'll be much discussion today. The discussion which we have brought here to-day, and the controversy about how to create this state, how to build it, and how to set it up. That's what we're going to argue about today. That's, I think, the discussion we're going to have here today. And without any precedent, but without hiding what was well done, the result of the work of the Congress of the States for many months, with the wide participation in the sphere of culture and the complete political agreement! This sub-variety met in the 24 form of meeting, not only in addition to the numerous meetings made in the informal manner between its colleagues, but in addition to the constant relations of several of the members of the sector. 31 professionals did their shows. A month's work, as I said. It has, in general, been well provided for by the agents of the culture system, and this is what we plan here in the law, with the origin of poncience; that there should be a work of variety, a vast, company, and agreement of the artist, a stately eucalyptus of the creator and the worker of culture, and not a plan of Government, or of fun. And then his opinion about it, or that, by giving him a chance to make small contributions. And that's why space... and for this purpose it is a natural space, and a group of works which fill all the means and properties, is the origin of this power, at the rate, in time, in order to end the autumn work, in a parallel manner, and with other important agents of culture. The Status of the State Artist is, in short, a legislative road map, adopted in 2018 – which, in general terms, we value positively. It collects a number of measures that would lead to improvement in the sector and in the case of some issues that unfortunately we do not have the competence to regulate. And we value it positively, because everything that brings about improvements for a sector, which, in most cases, suffers from chronic insecurity, is a positive thing, come from wherever it comes from. But, while that's true, it's also lame, as it doesn't respond to the reality of our cultural ecosystem or do it in a partial way, as I have already commented. That is why our own status is necessary; but, moreover, among the questions that have been collected, that have a direct impact here, we must also land them to our singularity, to our reality. We are talking about that, following the general considerations of 11 points, the first of the sections of this statute are proposals and recommendations on taxation: irregular yields, tax rates, exemptions, expenditure deductions, retention on behalf of the IRPF, low-value yields, sponsorship and micro-mecenation, etc. Issues on which we have competence, and therefore need to be adapted, extended in some cases, and subsequently implemented. The next item is the proposals and recommendations on labour protection and social security. On the latter, unfortunately, we cannot do too much, at least in the short term, beyond continuing to demand, after 41 years – which is well-oiled! – to be able to manage the economic system of social security, but it is up to us to manage active employment policies and, in the area of occupational protection and health, we also have competences, and we can do a lot. And it is that we can and must speak and co-decide among cultural actors where we must act in terms of benefits, in order to respond adequately to the specificities of the sector. And what about the matter of trade union representativeness, of promoting the ability to interact with the associative fabric. Much to hear, much to do, much to build, and all this together. Zeren eta gauzak sektorarekin modu partakatuan Egypt ez direnean, horrelakoak gerratazzen dira, eta gaur ez naiz honetan zentratuko. Hau Bakarrik avide bat da [Orri bat erakutsi du]. These are the subsidies that you've started since COVID-19, and they're green and red. These contributions were a failure; but I repeat, I do not go further into it, but this is only an example to explain why and why they happen. For when they do not do these things, when they do not make their decisions with them, they do not design things, because they do so. And then he got a culture plan at the end of the preliminaries, without telling anyone, and he's in the drawer, apparently. On the 7th of March, the Council of Government also agreed to and agreed to the strategic plan of borrowing for four years, and even after we know it and made our contrasts, without counting on the agents. An example of helping me make money. The Council of the Basque Cultural is completely sunk; it has only been collected once in 2019 and 20, so that there is an example, etc., and so on. So there's a way to do it. And all the operators insist that there is no part in it, in some information or other, and perhaps a few facts, but no small share in the designs and decisions of the culture police. And today, I think it's time for you to express a change in that direction through the groups that support the government, to say yes to the half-way that we've signed with Podemos, or to make a move forward. The middle one says: The Basque parliament, who has considered culture as an indispensable property, and so we named it two months ago to agree to the foundation of the Exodus, the artist, the creator, and the state of culture, which will be the result of multiplicity and vast participation, and of the establishment of professional professionals and cultures. And so, in our opinion, it would be difficult for us to negotiate with the sector, with the union, and with the neighbourhood in the course of the day. Be brave. Make a solid bet, too. With transparency, discussion, decision, culturers, and creators placing themselves in the centre of the cultured policy design and decisions, making a part of the decisions... Let's take care of them, too, in that sense. And let us consider these measures in a manner shared, giving the importance of culture, and the answers adapted to its peculiarity, by establishing the foundations of the future. Now we need, from the beginning of this day, a large part of multiplicity, and a consenting attitude towards the activity of the artist, the creator, and the culturer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u74	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Angulo, who represents the Podemos-Nozzer Party, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u75	Thank you very much, Madam President. Precarity is the chronic disease that the cultural sector has been suffering for years and, out of obligation, has had to learn to live with its aches and ailments. Now more than ever it is necessary to cure the sector. We cannot continue to normalize this situation, because the reality of the world of art and the ecosystem of culture is extremely fragile, and needs measures that encourage both its maintenance and its growth in decent conditions. Precarity and uncertainty are the most outstanding and worrying characteristics of the work situation of artists, technicians or assemblers in Euskadi. It seems a lie that it is necessary to affirm that the creators want to be able to live from their work, because art and culture is also a work, in many invisible and anonymous moments; but, as such, under this conception of culture as work, there is a need for their workers to receive fair remuneration and enjoy a clear framework of rights and obligations. Artists and related trades are not asking for privileges or treatment of favor, they just want to be able to live from their work, and, after realizing it and contributing to this society with their art, what they ask in return are the same social benefits that any other worker can have. Last November, the parliamentary groups present here declared culture a necessity for this society. All groups understand that, because of their material and immaterial value, we need art and culture as a transformative element of society, so that we can continue to move forward and reinterpret ourselves. However, from our parliamentary group we also understand that culture is not only those paintings, sculptures or songs that are exhibited in museums or we listen to at music festivals; the cultural ecosystem is also formed by those who make it and shape these creations. And are not the workers who make these works possible equally essential? And if we understand this, as is our case, and why do we not equip them with the necessary measures to be able to carry out their work, as is their right? Because something else is clear: there will be no culture if society cannot access it, and neither will there be culture if the creator does not have the material conditions to be able to carry out his activity. At the moment, one of the exceptional characteristics of work in the cultural sector must be taken into account, and this is called intermittentness. Whether self-employed or self-employed, intermittentness is the situation that leads them to work from one to the next, and this means that they do not have monthly income, as is usual in any other profession. In the world of culture, working normality simply does not occur, and it is just this intrinsic intermittence in the profession that keeps them totally unprotected and with the impossibility of accessing the social rights of which we have spoken so much before. All this became clear in the last legislature, in the Congress of Deputies, when all the parties unanimously constituted the subcommittee for the drafting of the statute, and how it was approved and validated by all. We believe that one of the great achievements of this subcommittee was to overcome the traditional division of the cultural ecosystem and focus on the common problems of all of them: labour, tax and social rights. The significant progress made in the report of this subcommission was made possible by listening to all the actors involved with culture and the ability to echo their demands. Some of these claims were already known to us, such as the simultaneous nature of retirement and copyright, but other work situations were more unknown and it was at that time that the work, for example, of technicians or assistants was visible. Then, we saw the precariousness in which those who normally remain hidden live, and who at the same time are indispensable for us to enjoy these plays, that exhibition or that concert. It is true that, although there is a long way to go, great steps have already been taken. We have a clear road map, which would be the subcommission's report, and from all parliamentary groups we have expressed on some occasion that we are in favour of the Artist's Statute, and in our electoral programmes we take up the situation of the cultural ecosystem and the need for improvement. Now it's time to gather what we learned, apply that methodology to our territorial reality. We believe that from the Autonomous Community, in our regulatory framework and in our competitive framework, significant steps can be taken to move forward in the search for this status. The Basque Observatory for Culture expresses in its study of prospects for the future, mentioned earlier by Mr Estarrona, the capacity we have to implement measures in the framework of taxation, labour protection and social protection. It must also be said that all the measures contained in the report of the Statute of the Artist are not necessarily legislative. Transparency and good practices in procurement are also a constant claim in the sector, and I think it is also time to pursue false self-sustaining or imbalances in procurement and to set aside, for example, contracts by WhatsApp. Our amendment is an idea that I have already expressed in this rostrum on more than one occasion. We believe that this is a realistic, easy-to-implement initiative that provides a solid foundation on which to develop the rest of the measures: The creation of a database, dependent on Lanbide, where artists working in the world of culture can reflect their working life, without having to be registered with this or that CNAE or IAE heading, will greatly help to have a complete map of the cultural ecosystem, would articulate the sector, and will be a tool on which to rely, when the different agents of the cultural sector interact with each other, or the Administration with these same agents. Through this tool, progress can be made both in training and in the organisational capacity of the sector; in the end, progress is being made towards the professionalization of the sector, which we have often said. I do not want to leave the rostrum without thanking Mr Estarrona for including our amendment in his original initiative, nor without thanking the guests who are on stage: thanks for his work and encouragement with his struggle. I have no doubt that it will be for everyone's benefit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u76	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, guests, good morning to you all. Well, Mr. Estarrona, I certainly share the concern with you. And I also appreciate your initiative; I think it is important to put on the table, for the work of this Parliament and the Government, what needs to be done, and I thank you for the initiative. My group understands that the Basque Government, in particular the Department of Culture, must be the one who is already working today on the widespread demand to order professions around art, culture, entertainment, its professionals, workers, creators, in line with other initiatives that you have well remembered. Here it is clear what you yourself have said: it is necessary to work for that status of the artist and the worker of culture. We have already seen in Parliament, both in the Committee on Culture and in the contacts that the groups have with professionals, with the cultural world of art and entertainment, the need to organize many professional situations, which today are moving in a legal uncertainty, in a very disturbing and very important economic and labour insecurity. That is to say, there is nothing more to see also how the media..., in the sense in which they have given the parliamentary appearances that we have had, to realize that the situation is serious, of major crisis in that world. And that action must be taken. Indeed, a job was done in Congress, but now we have to materialize it. And, at this time, in addition to the health or social crisis, the precariousness of this group has been further demonstrated, and that is why it is necessary to demand institutional action that clears the future of the profession in the best possible way. This is the moment. That is, we believe that we must work and urge Governments, the executives, to do so. Therefore, the conclusions and recommendations of the subcommission of Congress are important, very important. But, in the end, they are recommendations or conclusions, and they must still have the route that the Ministry of Culture or the various ministries (the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Labour...) can give them, and that has not yet occurred, and that is also disturbing, because we have to work, and the foundations are clear. And we hope it will be done soon. And in addition, those recommendations, conclusions, are still pending... In the same conclusions, the Autonomous Communities are still pending. That is to say, when you see that regulations are necessary to cover them, they do refer to a number of specific areas, but there is a lack of the role of the autonomous communities, in relation to many of the competences they have, which these recommendations must also be taken on board: social security, copyright, tax issues, what they are going to say to us; in that sense, something is missing, and that is why the batteries must be put here, in an essential way, in that role of the autonomous communities, in this case the Basque Autonomous Community, even the outlying territories, in their role of professional management in this sector. We understand that the program of government of the XII legislature – presented by the lehendakari, with the groups that support it, in its commitment 112 of chapter 18, culture, Basque and sport – configures what it has to be – configures, I say, sets the framework of what it has to be – the status of the artist and the cultural worker, but that has to be done, it has to be negotiated, it has to be focused, it has to be given content and, of course, from our point of view, it has to be brought to Parliament for us to talk about it. In this program of government of the XII legislature, in article 18, of culture, we talk about commitment 112, where the role of... and what has to be the statute must theoretically be framed here: to promote the creation and cultural production in Basque, supporting creators, artists, Basque professionals of culture, influencing the improvement of their working conditions and their professionalization. Indeed... And then, four more initiatives, within this commitment: to maintain and update public support for the creation and production of culture, especially by promoting culture in Basque, the empowerment of women – here is one of the keys –; to improve the working conditions of cultural professionals and professionals – here is the key, isn't it? – by adapting fiscal regulations to the uniqueness of cultural work – it is clear that this must be done in another area; it is not going to be in this Parliament or this Government – but it must be focused on – and by applying fiscal incentives, as well as the sponsorship or micro-mecenation formulas that favour this dedication, in collaboration with the outside bodies – it is clear –; to define and agree or implement the codes of good practice in the recruitment of cultural professions and professions, in collaboration with other Basque institutions, in the field of cultural policies; to promote the validation of the professional journey of cultural professionals in the creation, mediation and technical aspects, with a view to the provision of cultural education and training in the field, and in the field of education and in the field of education, and in the field of work. Here's the framework; now you have to give it content. Okay. Okay... And that is what we are asking at the moment; that is, to negotiate it: this is the framework, and we must fill it with content and negotiate it with the sector – with the sectors, in this case, of culture, which are also quite heterogeneous, and with the cultural workers – and also with the outlaws, which have a lot to say – a lot, a lot to say – in relation to the tax implications of the management of professions, in this case, of culture and entertainment. In particular, point two of the conclusions has... of the conclusions of the subcommission, it has as its scenario here our external competences in taxation. I mean, you can't talk about that... of what can be a guide, what arises from the ordination made by the Ministry of Culture or the Government, but we have to assume it and negotiate us also in the forums outside. I understand that it is essential for the Spanish Government to regulate the recommendations of the parliamentary subcommittee as soon as possible. I understand that it is necessary for you to regulate it soon. I don't know what paralysis there is right now. The recommendations of the parliamentary subcommittee were adopted unanimously. Well, let's hope that... We must now put some of the issues that have already been discussed and that we all agreed on in that committee. It is an important step, that of the committee. But just... The first step, no, better; it is not the first step: it is a step further that of the parliamentary subcommittee. The first step has been taken by the professionals by grouping together, making their statutes, their proposals for statutes, their parliamentary appearances, and that work that is coming to a beginning of good news. And in a row, it's the Basque government. Because of them they haven't... That's why they've been interested. That is, the fact that the Basque Government is also doing its work here. And that has to affect us, doesn't it? And that Mr. Zupiria draw up that document, come... And that document comes to Parliament, and we discuss it... And that is why we have tabled an amendment, which we believe links, first, the work of the Government with Parliament; that is, we have tabled an amendment which says that "the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to draw up, as a communication from the Government – it is quite clear that the communication has special characteristics, of debate, then in this Parliament – a draft or proposal of the status of the artist – which we have already seen has framed it in its government programme, so now it has to negotiate, complete and fill with content – that takes account of the participation of the sector, and that it sends it to the House, throughout 2021". I mean, communication for your debate, where it corresponds... in the appropriate body, in this Parliament. For us the most important thing now is the performance of the executives of Spain and, in a row, of the Basque. Let it be done now. We have set the date of 2021, but let us hope that the Government of Spain will do so already, that it will present something solid, because it is a requirement. And in a row, let the Basque Government act as well. The fundamental reforms, already... already... the presentation has already left its proposals; that is, the fact of what has to happen has already been talked about in the presentation, the concerns in the subcommittee are, of course, valid for everyone. They're there. I think that was... They apply to all workers in the autonomous communities linked to our legal system. I think that... that... That's why... I mean, one more paper could be interesting, but I think what needs to be done is urgent, is that governments get to work and already carry out that project. We will continue to serve in the commission, as we have done with several collectives, the collectives of artists. But in the meantime, it is the government that has to work, and bring a document to the House, which we can discuss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u78	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing the teams that don't run, Mistto. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, again, everyone. We return to the same thing as always: to discuss how different we are, the special need, while we are Basque, to have a different plan in the Basque Country, Burgos, Santander, Logroño... Divide and you'll win. And in that, of course, Vox won't be. The cultural creator, the artist, has a special character. He is not a wearer, as long as his work, his job, is completely different from that of any other sector. It is not an easily quantifiable procedure; it is not a work comparable to the rest. Our goal must be to help, but help with capitals. And I can assure you that, for this, it doesn't matter where the company is located in Spain. The essential difference lies in knowing what we mean by helping one another and what they mean by helping another. Their mouths are filled with concepts such as plurality, but they use it as a slogan. In the background, they despise culture, because they only defend one type of art, which suits them. They defend a very concrete type of culture, the one that gives them the most political revenue: to pay those who say what you want to hear; that is the question. This is what they want to abound in today. And that's what the People's Party often doesn't know. They work on the justification of a false account. They help some concrete artists, and they forget about others. They only empower projects that say what nationalism means. They turn the artist into a political agitator in favor of his cause. Where's the art then? The fusion with politics is so great that it is almost impossible to know where art begins and where politics ends. In Vox we understand the matter differently. We believe in freedom. And we believe that our job is not to direct the artist, limit and shape him, but to create a space of true creative freedom, without, for example, abrasive taxes, not to creators or consumers, and leaving civil society itself to be the protagonist. How? Very simple. With an ambitious, large, strong law of sponsorship that makes investment in associations, foundations or cultural projects attractive. And for this, there is no need for a specific Basque plan. For this, freedom is needed, something that has been missing in this region for several decades now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u80	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Basque Socialists. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u81	Yes, ma'am, good noon to all. I was going to start by saying that there seemed to be a consensus for what has been heard so far; of course, with the last one, I do not think we are going to have any consensus. With everything else said, I think it's a lot more that unites us than separates us, of course. But I would like to begin my intervention by recognizing the great role played by the agents of our cultural ecosystem in so many facets of our life, from leisure to the construction of a shared collective imagination or the construction of our community identity, because I do believe that culture creates identity. The cultural sector is much more than just an economic activity that we must protect; it is the repository of our memory, our longing for the future, our dreams and our hopes. It is therefore necessary to take care of those who work in any of the different facets of culture. A destructured and precarious cultural industry is the reflection of a society that is not knowing how to take care of one of its greatest treasures. Somehow, I would even dare say that the health of a society can be measured by observing the health of its culture. That is why one of the political commitments that aroused the greatest unanimity in the Congress of Deputies was the need to work on the creation of an artist's statute – it has been repeated by almost all the groups that have intervened – and this is the first point that I would like to underline and that other groups have also done so: consensus. In mid-2018, all the groups represented in the Congress of Deputies launched a subcommission to design the structure that should have this future status – a lot has been said about it. It was an intense work, it has also been said, with more than 30 participants and from all sectors. Its conclusions were accepted unanimously in plenary session on 6 September 2018. I stress once again the question of consensus and unanimity. The status of the artist is a parliamentary commitment for both the current Basque Government and the Government of Spain. It is strategic, and it is part of the government program agreed between the Spanish Socialist Workers Party and Podemos at the national level. That's right, no one can escape that it's a complicated job. I am aware that the interministerial work necessary to design a standard has already begun, which, because of its cross-cutting nature, will be complex and will require arduous work. But we are working on it, and I am convinced that you will see the light well before the end of the legislature. So the Socialists' commitment to the elaboration of the artist's status is clear, firm and determined. So what drives us to vote against the non-law proposal of the EH Bildu group? Firstly, because we do not understand the need to replicate the work that has already been done. The Socialists are not going to repeat a path we have already gone through. I insist, the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies unanimously approved the conclusions of the subcommission's report for the elaboration of an artist's statute. The way forward, therefore, is already set. It makes no sense to waste valuable time now, doubling efforts to reach the same conclusions. But also, secondly, for a competitive issue. The bulk of the proposals taken up in that report, more than half, referred to basic legislation for which we have no powers in this Parliament to amend: Thus, among the recommendations of that report is the need to expand and adapt the social coverage mechanisms of artists to the new productive reality, including within the current groups of contributions to technical and auxiliary staff. The report also mentions the need to adapt the rule to greater protection in the case of maternity. The report also talks about the need to adapt the status of the most representative trade union, so that the sector, its workers, can negotiate its own collective agreements, as well as agreements of a binding nature. The report also talks about the need to adapt the Statute of Self-Employment, in order to develop improvements in the coverage and access of self-employed workers to existing benefits, by cessation of activity, maternity, paternity, breastfeeding, risk of pregnancy, illness or accident at work. The report also refers to the amendment of Royal Decree 14/35 of 1985, in order to avoid abuses in the partial recruitment and concatenation of seasonal contracts, as well as to encourage their transformation into indefinite contracts. The report also mentions the need to amend annex 1 to Royal Decree 12/99 of 2006, to expand the category of occupational diseases, extending the coverage and surveillance of the health and safety of workers in that sector. As you see, the bulk of the sector's demands, the most substantial part of them, are the full powers of the State. There are many laws that need to be amended: the Workers'Statute, the Self-Employment Statute, the General Social Security Act, the Labour Risk Prevention Act, as well as the various decrees and some more to which I have already referred. Let us therefore work where we have to work, in the Congress of Deputies; that is where the debate is right now, because this previous work is absolutely necessary. Without these modifications, any Basque status of the artist would be little more than a cosmetic exercise, because the Socialists do not close the door to a future Basque status of the artist, but this must be a consequence of the previous modifications in the aforementioned basic regulations. On that basis, it is clear that we will have to continue working together. The Basque Government must continue to work with the sector, but it is also essential that it feels like talking to the parliaments, the municipalities and the other actors concerned, because we will also have to adapt our rules – you have said it – to those for which we have competence, to the specific nature of our sector. I'm thinking, we've all said it, in taxation, but we need to start with the structure of the artist's status at the national level. I insist: without denying any importance to the work to be done by the Basque Government, the foundations that guarantee us a full success in the development of the Basque status of the artist are linked to the necessary reforms of much of the labour legislation. I would also like to stop, in conclusion, explaining the meaning of my vote or of our vote to the amendment tabled by the People's Party-Citizens. Mr Barrio, and we have spoken before, I am convinced that your group subscribes to everything that has been said so far for us, but the ambiguity of your amendment prevents us from voting in favour of it. It is essential for us to be clear what path to follow, with its different stages. I am also convinced that these are nuances that you share, but it has not just been made clear in your amendment. We agree, as I said, that, once the normative bases are laid at national level, they must be adapted, in a Basque status of the artist, to the reality and specificity of our sector. I've already explained it. We understand that his amendment would be more focused on that second phase of the process, once the status of the artist is already at the national level. However, as I said, the ambiguity of the text has not just made it clear. That is why my group will abstain in the vote on this amendment. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u82	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians, Mr. Barbarese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u83	Congressman, guest, good day. At this point, we are going to open a field of participation in the legislature. For we shall abstain from the correction which PP has set before us, because the scheme which he exercises seems suitable to us; that is to say, the Government will make the state, as most of the other schemes do, and as most of the laws are made, and will bring it into this parliament and dispute on a monographic point. So, if the rest of the teams want it, there'll be that monographic, but the vote, at least we'll have that engagement... We're on different planes, but somehow I'm allowed to say that, from the government as well. What the gathering proposes is to create a power. We know that the powers are going very long, and you have also given this sub-variety in Congress as an example. We've got the calendar neck. We know it wasn't about a few months. I think, and in the events that you've invited them before, and which we've had, we've had the union and the Red Alert members, and I think they want the efficiency of one of the messages that said their message or the loudest, that they want efficiency. And the Madrid was a very beautiful thing. It was a very nice exercise. There's a process called Union de Actrices and Actoreses. It's taken to Congress. In Congress, that's the long sub-vendor you've discussed, and there's been a list of 75 points of consensus. But what happens when the government doesn't put herself at that table of plans? Then the plan must begin to develop from scratch, and, as it begins in the cold, it is going on for a long time, and some things cannot be realized. And here it is said: From 75 points, at the moment, two royal columns have been developed only five. It is still true what Mr Alberto Alonso has said: A royal decree is in progress and will develop... he will develop many points, but, I believe, as is done in most laws, it is better for that table he works." That's government, and then there's a discussion here. And you said here, then in that hypothetical monographic pole, you'll make small contributions. I, on behalf of my group, am engaged to have a sincere discussion, and to have assemblies which ought to be made before, and to make a serious exercise. And I, to finish this point, would say: What more is the government in Congress, in the case of Spain, by a report, advice, or recommendation made in this legislature, or by a planning which the government itself has made, and by a planning which is to be developed by itself? So the government will cultivate the new state of artists. And when we hear the motives, and speak with the government, they are among the objects we see; First of all, he has a profession of living and professionalizing. In this case, among companies and micropres, there must be a work of netting, of creating synergies, and fostering a greater tendency to interact with the creators. This point seems very important to us because it's one of the things that the Red Alerts brought to you in a very pleasant way and in the builders, one of the things that revealed to you, that it's a highly athletic world. And, for instance, in France, it doesn't happen that way. France has a much more developed area, because there are more potent unions, because they are potential associations. And I think here, even in the Basque Step, there's a way out. Secondly, to maintain and professionalize professionalism, in respect of the titles of education, each profession must be identified better in order to create, form profiles, and titles, to confess and record them officially. It's not just a thing. Often, when an event is performed, and the characteristics are defined in the Plains, there are sometimes no way of identifying the profile of persons, and we have a job in it, which must be developed in the State. Third, the tax system as well as the interaction of cultural labors... or it will have to be arranged in the intermitentia. Intermite is not a bad thing; it is an interference in the work of many creators. Mr. Angulo, I wouldn't say that, I don't know, we're supposed to stop, disappear, or act against it, but we're going to that model, and we're in the bottom of it, right? Fourthly, there's a question of social protection. As Arons has said, Spain has its jurisdictions, and here, in the realm of quotes, there is to be employed in Spain, but we have other powers and we must develop them. I'm not going to give any more depth about this. And fifthly, the preservation of the rest is a remarkable peculiarity we have in our community. And in order to make this possible, the Cultura Department must first speak with the Organ of the Esucaga Coordination, the Deputy of the Foru-lands, the Department of Education, the Enplegu Politic Department, the Eudel, the Spanish, and then take him to the great assemblies and vote. I'm saying: Does it make sense to start this from here and do all the work here? I don't think so. It is much more probable that the Government should strike all these doors, write a document with all accuracy, and that in this document, which is to be developed by it, this legislature has not contributed and has not made small contributions, contributes, and correlated force will not change. It is true that we will continue to have the majority on this committee; but I repeat, that I shall go with some sort of predisposition to discuss it rather, François. The administration, therefore, now belongs to the government. It won't be easy, in view of our context, because the Cultural Department has immediate challenges, for example, a few days ago, how summers will go. But logic and philosophy have at the beginning been as follows: If you're aware of the conditions of health attacks, or whether they are concerned, try to perform events and keep the blind up, don't you? Governments... Then you have mentioned it also, Mr. Estarrona, and I will answer you: That's a handwriting that you've shown us, helping us around the execution. And it is true, and we have said that at the Board, we've agreed to it, and the Government has also confessed to you, that they've barely come out in April, that is to say, in a month's time these helps, those two million and the middle aids, had been published by the Government. It is certain that there had been some difficulties in the building the sector, or at the same time the structure of it was the main obstacle to the support of it. But it is true, ten days ago, that the Government has placed two and a half more millions of others, as aid, in association with the profession, and therefore the assistance will be again. And that's the commitment. In this difficult context, and in this wretched state, we keep our support, to keep the companies and creators in as good a position as possible, until the covida is over, and for a long period to develop this state, in order to have a more powerful sector in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u84	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Passing by the turn of the answers, the Representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Estarona, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u85	Thank you again, Mrs. President. And from small to large, without going into discussion with those who consider killing bulls to be art... Mr Barrio, you did say that, in some way, your amendment links the government's work with Parliament itself, but it is that we and we are looking for Parliament's work to be directly linked to cultural actors, and to be able to give them a voice in all debates, so that they can be part of the decisions as well, and they can be part of the debates, and we can listen to them all. Because not all of us here also have a healthy habit of doing politics with regard to all of us, or to as many of us as possible, whether in the sector or not, because it is a way of doing it. And you said that there was a need for some urgency, and that a paper could dilate us... Man, in his amendment too, throughout 2021, December 2021... I don't know, urgency also depends a little bit on the perceptions of need, right?, and time. And, in a way, Mr Alonso, it is good for you to acknowledge all the cultural actors who have come here today. But I believe that, more than a recognition, what needs to be done is to open up spaces for them, open up spaces for dialogue, open up spaces for them so that they can carry out an exercise as basic as it is to be able to present their own contributions, without being protected by any political representative, which is what you, today, in some way, intend to facilitate with your abstention in the face of the not-so-shared amendment, as you have said, which the People's Party is doing. And, anyway, while you were saying all the questions and competences that the State has and the few that we have here on organic legislation, you have emptied the wallet to Mrs Mendia, the second vice-lehendakari. Because when you've made your exhibition, Mrs. Mendia has nothing to do, according to you. He has nothing to do in this country... It's just, fifty-fifty [Keinu bat egin du eskuekin]... I do not know if you have done the weight, but if you take the status of the artists, and begin to read all the measures proposed in it, you will realize, of the seventy and so many measures that arise, how many we have to bring and land them to our reality, and how many we have the competences of our own to develop them. And there's not a few, really. And, in fact, I've missed a little bit, of the two groups that you support the government, that kind of déjà vu too, as soon as one sees the need and the other... You don't see that much need in this regard. And I think it is not so much a question of the steps to be taken, and hence the phases to be completed. Pero, simplemente, Mr. Farrean. You say it somehow and in the name of the government, and you said that you had permission for that, you said, to commit the government and bring it here. And above all, you have argued this in a sense in the name of permanence. But I also think that in the name of efficiency we should say "no" to a part of the process, and open the doors, I think, I don't know, we should put ourselves on the scales. Because, in the end, I think we're in the old days, in the old days, in the old days, in the old days. For we, and now I will declare it beforehand, will vote against the correction we have made by PP. So, it won't go any further, because we, especially when we're talking about what's meant to be done today, concentrated on it, we think, in that correction that Carmelo Barrio has introduced, that this intervention of the agents is not determined at all, and that it's in some way not a guarantee. And we think we should focus on it now, because this time we think it's all wrong again. It's part of the culture system, it doesn't have a head, it doesn't own it. And he often misunderstands the leadership: The question of how the sector is to be diagnosed and how Kultural is supposed to be appropriated and started is not leadership. The leadership is the ability to build things in a shared way. I'm the leader of the El, who's the la capacidad para contsir de form, compartida y colectiva. "Lo otro es una speccie de armycio de poder, que lo que suele hacer este Gobierno, como si tuviese una spermie de stick de mule, que sí, en parte la tiene." "Pero no es una form, a nuestro entender, correcta o un nestros correcto de leader." And if you refuse to create the continental eumancipation of the artist, creator, and culture, you will, in some measure, give a great number of people to-day; but I will now end now, Mme. And so we must bring the eucalypcan culture and eucalypcan culturers and creators to the first line of the political diary. We should have brought them with us together, working together, and making decisions at the same time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u86	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Together, Podemus-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u87	Thank you, thank you... Thank you, President. The urgency that the world or the art sector is asking for right now is not so much in terms of the status of the artist; the urgency that it is asking now is to save this year covid and that all the covid aids reach the entire art sector. And if we had talked to the art partners, to the cultural partners, that aid would have reached everyone, not as on this last occasion, when they have once again left the intermittent sector, the workers on behalf of others... they have left them on the road, just as they have left on the road the workers who have to reconcile their work in the art world with any other work in order to be able to survive. Intermitence is intrinsic to art; it is intrinsic to creation. From the moment it was created, there was intermittentness. One cannot be writing, sculpting and painting constantly. It has to have periods of investigation and periods of relaxation. And in these periods or to solve these periods, it is for what the status of the artist is implemented. Is the artist's status urgent? Well, we've been talking since Zapatero's time, about the artist's status. I mean, it's been a few years. And the method of the subcommission was chosen, because it was a method that allowed cultural agents to intervene in Parliament, in this case in the Congress of Deputies, and gave them a voice. That is why the method of the subcommission was chosen. Not everyone was in favour of it being in a subcommission. There were other proposals; but, thanks in this case to the PSOE and the Unidad Podemos, the subcommission was reached. The frame is clear, sir... The framework is clear; the framework of aid we have been talking about, or have been talking about on many occasions, is what everyone wants, what we have in our electoral programmes, that of the government programme... What's being discussed is how. And, of course, in our form, the way in which we have put forward how cultural actors are first heard and, from their needs, from their own training, then apply to the rules; not the other way around. That is why we, too, are going to vote against Mr Barrio's initiative, because it does not adapt anything to the way in which we see that this work should be carried out. No more. Mila esker...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u88	Thank you... Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u89	Thank you, President. I do not want to become the protagonist of the debate, because what I was going to do was help, with my amendment. It's pretty clear it doesn't look like I'm gonna get it. But in any case... The first thing I would like to say to Mrs Martinez is that I am also talking about freedom. I mean, that's what we're looking for, that's what we're looking for for for cultural workers, who today see it limited by a painful economic situation and the characteristics of their unfortunate situation. And that is also what was seen in the Congress subcommittee, which was approved, in relation to the recommendations, by all groups. We are not talking, in this initiative that Mr Estarrona has brought us, about the cultural policy of the Basque Government, about his obsessions and some issues with which we are very critical; we are talking about the workers of culture, that the artist is the one who has the best conditions, that the artist and the worker who moves around culture and art have the best conditions to exercise, precisely, that freedom, that freedom which is also mine or is ours. So, in that sense... And here, too, and that's out of legal imperative, isn't it?, we have the legal need to do our job as well. The institutions also have to do their work if we want the Spanish regulation to come not to be incomplete. That is, if we want regulation not to be incomplete, we will have to do our job, because here there are decisive factors in favour of the work of creators and cultural workers. That is to say, in that sense, it is clear that that is why we have contributed, we have tried to help. Mr Alonso, I said this in my speech: first, that the Spanish Government has to regulate it; it has to do its job. I don't think my position is ambiguous. I think it is clear, because I want it to be that, when the government collects what the royal decree says and does its part of the work, the Basque Government will bring it to Parliament as a communication. I think it's clear it's not ambiguous. And, Mr. Estarrona and Mr. Angulo... Let's see, we're not going to sacrifice a possibility or an instrument as a presentation can be... If we can do this work every day; if we are parliamentary groups: every day, first, we can call the agents of culture, the collectives who have something to say. They themselves know, as Teknikariok or Alerta Gorria did, that they can come to the Basque Parliament's Committee on Culture, illustrate us, inform us, tell us what our situation is. We can go and call people and groups to the Committee on Culture, as has been done, and we can go and work on that final document. Don't tell me you're opposed to... 2021, because 2021 is a space of time, that is, knowing that there are still some regulations to be completed, which are those of the Government of Spain. It is a logical space, bearing in mind that this document is missing and also bearing in mind that within the framework of the commitment made by the Basque Government, which I have already read before, to articulate a statute of the artist and the worker of culture, because they say so themselves in that chapter 18, in that commitment 112... It is clear that it must be done and that it can do so. We put the time frame of 2021, for you to do it. Hey, I wish I did before, but, I don't know, just like the fact that you didn't approve this communication in 2021 makes it easier for the government to do it later. So I believe that, in opposing this instrument that I put on the table, because just as it makes it easier for the government, it is that you do not feel committed to bringing it in 2021 and come later. We, ladies and gentlemen, have made an effort. Now, the Government understands that it has also committed – the groups that support the Government – to further work on this issue. We thought that the framework of the communication was right; it is possible that he also suggested to the groups supporting the Government, since the initiative is not going to come out, to tell the Government – and today Mr Zupiria is not here, but Mr Erkoreka is, because he is telling the Government – to come in the form of communication; I believe that the Government would also be right to bring him here, to get to work already on these matters, because there are subjects to work, regardless of what the central government does. Mr. Zupiria has already committed himself. The statute is not in question; what needs to be put to work. I mean, I think that if you change Mr Estarrona's position, we have a margin for action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u90	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mist must not speak. Socialists, Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u91	Curious view of democracy has those who consider themselves to have the monopoly of freedom. Next group – I will also try to respond from the bottom up. Mr. Barrio, nothing to object to. I believe that our debate is already on the table. Mr Angulo, the urgency of the art world I do not know whether or not it is in the status of the artist; the status of the artist is what is on today's agenda, and that is what we have come to discuss. There are other emergencies, possibly; but that was the one on the agenda. Mr Estarrona, I am not going to go into some issues because you know that there is a difference in the competences between management and legislation; perhaps in some issues we do not have legislative powers, but we do have them under management. And believe me, as far as Mrs Mendia's department is concerned, I was lucky enough to work in the previous legislature, and management can do a lot and very well. I would like to conclude by clarifying a little bit the three stages in which the Socialist Group sees this issue of the status of the artist, because I sincerely believe that we are discussing very similar things. What we consider is that the diagnosis is already made, which is that report. Indeed, when we have received the different groups who have come to talk to us about the hardness in which they currently find themselves, the hardness of their situation, when we have talked about structural problems, that is, we have come here today to talk about structural problems, we have ended up making some sort of variations on the same subject. And that issue is collected and somehow concentrated in that report. That's why the diagnosis is already made for us. From there, it is necessary to start building foundations, firm foundations that resist what we build, the building we build on. And those foundations are the status of the artist at the national level. Why? For it is necessary to dig; it is necessary to dig the shoes where to lay those foundations. This excavation is the modification of a series of laws at the national level, basic laws, which we cannot modify from here: the status of the artist, the Law on the Prevention of Labour Risks, the General Law on Social Security, etc., etc. Because it's fundamental: if we don't have those shoes on well, if we don't build that foundation, those firm foundations at the national level, everything else we build runs the risk of being castles in the air, castles in the air! It is therefore necessary to have those foundations. Second phase: you have to smoke. For that... that's the function, that's the artist's basic status. Once we have these firm foundations, it will be the function of the Basque Government, talking to the various agents, who are many, not only the collective, obviously the first of them, but also parliaments, municipalities and other agents, we will have to start applying these foundations to the reality, to the specificity of our culture. Adapting it, that's the second phase. But, I insist, it is essential to have good foundations. Tabicarla, because for that we do have bricks and cement, which are our skills, but they must be embedded in that structure. And, for us, there is then a third phase, which is called collective bargaining. Once we have all this assembled, we have foundations, we have the building of the Basque status of the solidly structured artist, we have to let the sector, autonomously, be able to negotiate its own collective agreements and binding agreements. But it is necessary to do so in that order, and that is what I have tried to insist on, what I have tried to put forward during my first intervention. If we do not do so in that order, the building becomes weak; it becomes weak because it lacks the great foundations. Of course we have competences, but the fundamental ones, the ones that are going to give us resistance and reinforcement, are with legislative competences in the Congress of Deputies. Moreover, I dare say that it is not only a question of competition, for Socialists it is also an ideological question, because we believe that these foundations must be common to all, they must be firm foundations that cover all the autonomous communities, and then, each one that adapts them to its specificity. That is why it is so necessary for this first debate to be in the Congress of Deputies. I don't know if I've explained myself. And that's why we divide and are so insistent on those three levels and on that orderly sequence of facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u92	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians, Mr. Barbarese, your word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u93	With your permission, Mr. President. Finally, the discussion of the day has been reduced to a procedure discussion. And on the other hand, I desire to remember, that to make plans belongs to the Government, to its own jurisdiction, as it ought to be, to accept the laws of this legislature. So today we had three options: that is to say, to take part in this legislature, because in this case there is no possibility of taking any part in the rest of the procedures of principle. And it was the chance we chose to make a monographicographic. The bond of strength has not forced us; we have gone to seek this opportunity, in some measure, to maintain this tendency to a certain association of the ages that have passed. And from now on, the state government will do it. I think it's good to do it because it's going to be a stately state, very indirect or transverse. He will have to touch many doors, and the door of the agents, and from thence he will proceed to this legislature, and we will discuss all that we need to discuss. But in power or monographic, or in the whole meeting or the committee, the presence of strength will be the same. And in this legislation the citizens have desired that the Social Party and the EAJ possess a majority. Nevertheless, our position will be favourable to the agreement, and, as we have said today, favorable to the participation. And if that's the usual ways, let's go on because I think they're good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u94	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. The discussion is over, and we're gonna vote for EH Collect and together the middle-point correction that Podemos People have signed. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 41; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 41; the Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u95	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we'll vote for the full correction of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudads. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 41; the votes given, 74; on the side 6; on the contrary; on the contrary, on the contrary; 41; white;
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u96	So, the full correction is rejected. If this is the case, if there is a strength to continue, I shall continue. Yeah? Five point in theme list: "Euscal Popularo-Ciudadans as a parlamentary group-as to the production of a new Euskadin carnée plan. To discuss and to decide once and for all." Team proposeer's turn. Representative of the Basque Popularo-Ciudadans, Mr. Gil, has the word to present and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. With this latest GNP, we propose to them the creation of a new plan for the automotive industry in Euskadi, and we do so because we think that there are four good reasons for this: firstly, by economy, by the Basque economy; secondly, by the environment; thirdly, by safety, by road safety; and fourthly, by the need to help certain groups that have become particularly vulnerable in the covid pandemic. First of all, the automotive sector is not just any sector for our Basque economy; it is a strategic sector, made up of more than 300 companies that make up more than 18 billion euros and which employs more than 40,000 people in our autonomous community. And although it is true that a renewed plan does not imply that new cars sold are necessarily manufactured here, it does affect positively, indirectly and directly, the distribution and maintenance subsectors. On the other hand, one of the major transformations that we are facing and that is under this GNP, and will be during the debate, is the tendency to electrify transport and to use alternative models, in their different combinations, to the model of fossil fuels. We still have to make further progress in battery storage technology, which is still a little green, in order to increase its efficiency and reduce its cost. But it seems that the trend is clear and unstoppable, especially because it does not have many alternatives. The detractors of electrification technology could be the defenders of the hydrogen model, although we may consider that, today, hydrogen still does not seem viable for the private vehicle and that it will be many years before electricity is replaced, with which we will surely still have a long time all electric cars, and it will be convenient – and it would be advisable – to accelerate this process, for ecological and energy efficiency reasons. However, the reality of the car park today is very different; this is not what is really happening. The level of electrification, as you all know, is still very low, mainly because these models are still very expensive. The picture of the current situation in Euskadi is as follows: in February 2021, 1,625 vehicles were registered; in February this year, last February. One thousand six hundred twenty-five combustion vehicles, compared to the 2,781 sold in January; that is, in one month we have had a 41,57 % drop. And they will say, but this will be the pandemic that has happened everywhere; not, in the rest of Spain, the national average of the fall – there has also been a fall, but the average of the fall – is 38.41, a substantial difference. During the same period, 103 electric vehicles were registered in Euskadi in February of this year, compared with 105 January. The rate of growth in sales of this type of vehicle in Spain is growing, growing at a rate of 10.93, and here, as you can see, not only has it not grown, but it has decreased slightly, by 1.9%, has it not? Let's talk a little bit about the advantages that a renewed environmental plan would have. A 2019 Consumer Organisation study noted that 15% of the vehicles circulating in Madrid – we don't have any data here – at the moment did not have the label of the General Directorate of Traffic on emissions, due to their age. I repeat, 15%, and they represented themselves... that 15 % represented 50 % of the nitrogen dioxide emissions controlled. In Euskadi we have no studies on this, but it is not difficult to estimate that there will not be much difference on this subject. The causes of this situation will surely be multiple, but there are three that are quite clear and that are important. One, the economic crisis of the covid, which today bears the blame for almost everything, has also led consumers to lean towards the purchase of second-hand vehicles, which are cheaper, compared to the new ones, has it not? Two, the lack of public aid, since the funds for the Euskadi vehicle renewal programme were exhausted on 2 September, that is to say, we have been without a renewal plan since 2 September. And thirdly, another undisputed factor is that the rise in... has been a rise in registration taxes since January of this year, due to the application of the new European emissions legislation in the midst of the pandemic, which has meant a 5% increase in the average price of a car at the worst time, but it is also true that this had to be done necessarily. What is true is that in order to reverse this situation, and since we cannot influence the first and third factors, it is necessary to attack the second. We therefore believe that public aid is needed to encourage the switch to electric cars, but also to facilitate the renewal of the current fleet, until the price and performance of electric vehicles achieve significant improvements in competitiveness. The third reason why we support this proposal, we have said that it is for road safety, and I think it is clear that the age index of the mobile park is in direct and causal relation with the number of accidents. According to the Directorate-General for Traffic, the risk of death or serious injury is multiplied by two, when comparing accidents involving vehicles aged 10 to 15 years in relation to vehicles under five years of age. According to the same source, the Directorate-General for Traffic, compared with tourism aged up to four years, the risk of death is 1.6 times higher in tourism aged 10-14 years, and 2.2 times higher in tourism aged 15-19 years. A study carried out by the European Commission in 2006 within the SARAC II research programme measured the impact of the safety of the same car models and brands for several generations, concluding that in the jump of three to five generations, that is, between six to 10 years – let us remember that a generation of vehicles are two years – the risk of serious or fatal injury is reduced by 46 to 65 %. The Deputy Director of Statistics of the Directorate-General for Traffic explains the reason, saying: "New vehicles are introduced into new safety mechanisms – some of which are bound by regulations – which have led to a lower risk of being seriously injured or killed in a traffic accident". It is clear that a new car has a direct impact on increasing safety, and this I believe is a clear fact. Fourthly, the fourth argument is the need to help certain vulnerable groups that have been exposed by the pandemic, and I am referring, in particular, to two groups that feel particularly damaged by the lack of support for the renewal of the vehicle, which, on many occasions, is also essential for them to carry out their work: they are self-employed and SMEs, on the one hand, and large families, on the other. Self-employed and SMEs, already ill-treated and particularly damaged by the economic crisis of the covid and the way in which the pandemic has been managed, make a different use of the car, of the vehicle. It is not only a means of displacement for them, but, in many cases, it is an essential condition for carrying out their work. It becomes the car for them, therefore, a productive medium, as it can be – I don't know – an operating room for a doctor, a computer for a computer... It is a working tool, means without which they simply cannot do their job and, when their lifespan is ruined or exhausted, forces them to make expenses that seriously affect their economies. The most obvious case is that of taxi drivers. It's a paradigmatic example, but also a plumber's or an electrician's or a trucker's. The other particularly vulnerable group, which is very much affected by the issue of car renewal, is that of large families, which require vehicles with more places, which are obviously more expensive, when they are also the families with the most economic needs. Therefore, for economic reasons, for reasons of environmental protection, for reasons of road safety and for reasons of protection for these vulnerable groups, we first propose to create a new automotive renewal plan, which encourages the purchase of electrified vehicles, without forgetting also the need to renew the existing fleet with current technologies, both diesel and petrol, because electric vehicles are still very expensive, there is not yet the necessary infrastructure, etc. Two, that the new car renewal plan takes particular account of self-employed people and SMEs, since, where appropriate, the acquisition of a new vehicle is considered to be a necessary activity in order to be able to carry out their professional activity. And three, we propose that, in the new automotive renewal plan, special consideration be given to large families. But I am afraid that what is going to happen now is that the groups supporting the Government will also vote negatively on this proposal. And yet, I fear that in the coming weeks, we will be witnessing the announcement, on drums and platters, of a new plan renews. And that is one of the issues that the lehendakari told us that we had in common and that we could collaborate on it... Anyway, then they'll say about the hand stretched out and the collaboration. Anyway... Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u98	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Hernandez, who represents the Podemos-Nozzer, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u99	Well... I left it on. We think that we are faced with an anodenic initiative on the part of the People's Party. And not for the hours, which perhaps also, but because we think that it is a proposal that comes back on the same recipes that have been deployed, over and over again, over the last decades, the fruit of the liberal sclerotic imagination. At the moment, one of the most complex in recent decades, in which there is a powerful economic crisis, an unprecedented health crisis and also a climate emergency, you insist today on proposing as a solution the idea of subsidizing the purchase of private vehicles, without even abandoning the idea of subsidizing combustion vehicles. We assume that we are faced with a paradox, in relation to the automotive sector in Euskadi. No one can deny, and of course we will not deny, the importance of this sector in the economic growth of our country and in the generation of quality jobs. However, we are also aware, and no one should be spared, of the harmful impact that the use of the combustion vehicle, whether diesel or gasoline, has on health and its effects on climate change. If the goal is to address that paradox – and, of course, for our group it is – or an attempt to start moving towards the resolution of the two challenges it mentioned, it seems to us that the proposal of the People-Citizens Group is moving in the wrong direction. Firstly, as I said, because it does not close the door to the umpteenth renewal plan for private diesel and petrol polluting vehicles. But we also believe that measures to solve the problems of the car industry and climate change cannot be based solely on replacing diesel cars with electric cars, in a one-to-one proportion. Because, moreover, the sector is suffering from a crisis of overproduction, which we have already talked about in this Parliament a few months ago. That is to say, for us, it is not about replacing the fleet of combustion vehicles with another electric vehicle, just like that, but it is also about reducing the number of cars circulating in our cities and, at the same time, moving towards a model in which those vehicles, which will have to transit, are electric. And a second problem that we see, and that we think has been overtly noted in experiences in other countries – for example, in Norway or Sweden – is that the model of public money check for the purchase of electric vehicles is a regressive and classist economic policy at the moment. In the end, with the conditions, of course, which exist today, it is those who can afford to access this electric car, thanks to this type of aid. That is, subsidizing this purchase would not allow ordinary people, the working class, to access these kinds of electric vehicles; it would simply reduce the purchase for those who have the most. That is what we have seen in recent experiences. And we think that that would be the effect of what you are proposing right now, right now. That is why we, our amendment, or the amendment we have tabled as a whole, are in line with other initiatives that we have brought to this plenary. We believe that an in-depth debate should already be opened, in relation to sectors that are already, by socio-economic changes, such as aeronautical, environmental and also over-production, such as the one we are dealing with today, the automotive sector, and that they should be redirected to sectors of activity compatible with those changes, precisely to ensure the future of industry and jobs. We believe that industry and, above all, the know-how of its workers, specialized in sectors of high added value such as this, are a country value in itself and public institutions must defend them. And along with the templates, initiate a process of reorientation and planning. That is what we believe and have always defended for other subsectors, for companies we have been able to talk about a lot (La Naval, Tubacex...), and the same can be applied in this sector, for a company like Mercedes, which is so important here, in Gasteiz. We think that taking care of the automotive industry is very important, but we know that also many companies, whose property is private, have not done the duties. We believe that industry should be encouraged, but aid should be directed towards niches of markets that do not deepen in the ecological crisis in which we live, that serve to root the company to the territory and that serve to guarantee quality jobs. We believe that the time has come to reject, definitively, the expenditure of public money to encourage the purchase of vehicles that poison our cities and which, moreover, run counter to the Paris Agreements. Even more so after the pompous and solemn Declaration of Climate Emergency made by the Basque Government in 2019. Because, if not, those kinds of statements remain only in political marketing. We believe that the amendment of the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups is so short and generalistic that it could serve one thing and the other. Then, this kind of thing serves to talk about sustainable development and, at the same time, to insist on approving gas wells. We believe that we should start to work seriously towards electrification, with the aim of decarbonising the automotive sector. Planning, organizing, what the future should be, to ensure quality jobs, and not simply repeating old recipes, which also bring other kinds of problems. Therefore, we are not going to support your initiative. Mr Gil Vegas, I would like to tell you that we sincerely believe that your initiative, which includes a part of the objective that we might perhaps share, the importance of electrification of certain fleets of vehicles, we do not share it, for the reasons that I have somehow explained to you. If we turn diesel car, petrol car, by electric car in proportion one to one, the future of that industry is a dead end. And, therefore, we think that we need to look for another kind of solution and propose another kind of solution. We think that these kinds of approaches are sota, horse and king, like the one we have known for many years and that they will lead us to dead ends, in terms of climate change and also in terms of the industry itself and in terms of what we care about the industry, which is above all the quality employment that this type of industry can generate. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u100	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Collect the EH team, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u101	Good morning, or good afternoon, all of you. Cars will be electric, all cars will be electrical. The question is when all cars are going to be electric, and I think that's the key. When it's as close as possible, as soon as possible, we're interested in the event, because electric cars are better than thermal cars, with regard to liquids. Investigations have been made, and in Europe, for instance, a termic car is calculated all its life, including the process of production, and of course the origins of the Argine. .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. that an electric car decreases emissions in its life between 30% and 70%. And there are also opportunities of growing in that reduction of fluids. So we're interested in this social process of electrocution as fast as we can, so let's make it as quick as possible. It's not a right to have a private car, and governments and public administrations shouldn't be guaranteed to have a private car with public money. There's a right to have a job, a minimum income, education, which is rights, and they have to be guaranteed to the public money. But if they are to be a private car, public scholarships must be not only for the benefit of private individuals, but to answer a dynamic which is included in a collective strategy. And in this case, I believe that this exception may be admitted, if all public help are always aligned with the ecological transition. That's all the help you can buy cars, even if you think about rental resources, and if you put the topes on the money you can spend, but only with the electric cars, if they're done. It is true that the situation is very complicated in the automotive market. Mr Gil has mentioned some of the reasons why cars are not sold or has dramatically lowered the sale of cars. Obviously, as we are in Euskal Herria I will mention a phrase of a Basque, and, as we speak of cars, a phrase Henry Ford. Ignacio de Loyola said that "in times of desolation, do not move." Surely, today I would have added "and neither would I have bought a car". Obviously, these are not the time to make such investments. But I'm going to mention another phrase, Henry Ford's, or rather, more than a phrase, a fact. Henry Ford realized that he could manufacture so many cars, as he implemented chain manufacturing, that he needed buyers. Buyers who had sufficient purchasing power to buy their cars. And, among other things, one day in January 1914 he doubled the salary to his employees. Therefore, to the right of this country we have to say that, among other issues, the purchasing power of the working class, in general, when it comes to acquiring cars and any other type of consumer goods, is clearly very deteriorated, precisely, by years of policies that have attacked wages, attacked job stability, multiplied the price of rents and, ultimately, reduced the spending capacity of the working people. But it is true what Mr. Hernandez has said: the transition of motion is not to become 100 million electric cars that are produced within the world, which is not to be endured. Even electric cars, though much smaller, have ecological tracks, so the transition of motion must be placed in other parameters. We didn't come to talk about it today, so today the party proposes to discuss the "reové plan," and that's what we're going to answer. But we must say, in order to make it clear, that the new motion is not to be replaced by electric cars, but it is a much more complex system, and that within that system all private cars must be electric. The development of the electric car is in trouble today. Well, some of them are technical. few autonomys, great weight, overcharge time too long, few models... Around these technical issues all the marks are absorbed, and in a short or average period they will probably solve them. To-day two landmarks must be raised from politics, or, pardon me, two walls must be raised or broken in the development of the electric car. on the one hand the price of these carriages, and on the other the proper supply or preparation of the loading. As for the loading net, the institutions also have a role that is not being filled by the Basque institutions in the development of the network. Houseworks aren't done. And if we're talking about the renova plans, we'll talk about the prices as well. An electric car usually costs more than itsrmal peers 8-10,000 euros. This, it is true, becomes an insuperable obstacle to many people, and, although it is conscience, it cannot acquire an electric car at this rate. Besides, the inclus has been mentioned, partly because he is making some bad reputation around the electric cars, as if they were an account of pijos or a poppies, because they are more expensive than the others. And we need to avoid that. Electric cars are more expensive because they're new technology. And every new technology has a bigger price at first. Then, when they become more general, the price is also made to be democratize and to be made available to all. House televisions, when they started, were four of the screens very expensive, just for the rich. We all have that stuff at home today. And also with the mobile phone: even when the smart ones appeared, they were very expensive, and it was a question of pijoons. But then they became general. In this case, and in the case of electric cars, we all need to make generalization for the purposes of fluids. It's no longer a question of taste, of comfort... It's a ecological matter. And that is why public institutions must be encouraged. And for that, you have to push the sale of electric cars at this moment. Then when he takes a volume, because of the economy of the scale, the price is for the market, and the right to get them becomes more general. But at the moment, it's a bet to protect the electric cars' purchases. And this must be done by three operators: On the one hand, you have to ask attentions to fill up your pockets and fill them well... it is necessary to demand an effort to reduce the prices of the electric cars to the extent of their pockets. States or public administrations must be asked to contribute an effort in the purchase of electric cars. And some buyers, who have capacity at the moment, we're talking about the middle class, because there aren't cheap electric cars today... they must be asked to pay a part of it out of their pocket. The goal is not to help private people, but to acquire a critical mass in the production of the electric car, to increase it, and, as I have said, to Merit, to become more accessible to all in the future. Asko dago egiteko, asko lack zaigu eta atzean gelditzen ari gai honetan ere. Erkidego Honetan dankagu... the Integral Electric Mobility Plan. A plan that says we have a mission and a vision, as it is in the business world. And the vision says: "Euskadi is a precursor to a model of environmentally friendly mobility, which responds to the needs of its inhabitants, becoming a leading territory in the use of electric means of transport and an indispensable international reference of knowledge and industry linked to electric mobility". This, rather than a vision, today, unfortunately, is a hallucination or a shamanic vision, a product of having ingested peyote, because nothing further from reality. Not only are we not moving forward at the planned pace, but we are seeing that we are lagging behind in electrification of transport. The employer of the car in the Spanish state has made a number of rankings, depending on a scale that measures the degree of development of electrification of the particular transport. And, of course, you will not see [Paper batzuk erakutsi ditu], but you will see that here, in the penetration of the electric vehicle between the communities of the state, if the average is here, the Basque Country is below the average. And what is worse, the Spanish state is far below the European average. So, in electrical vehicle penetration, wrong. In the freight network, the result is repeated again: in the average of the Spanish state, the Basque Country is below the average of the Spanish state, and the Spanish state, in turn, is in the queue of Europe. Therefore, we are at the tail of the tail. And in a combined indicator of electromobility, idem idem: Spanish state, Basque country, European Union; Spanish state. Therefore, right now, we are at the tail of the implementation of the electric car in Europe. And that's a problem. That's a problem! A serious problem, which has to be solved, among others, by this Administration. Germany and France have already excluded from their renewal plans and support for the purchase of vehicles all other vehicles which are obviously not electric. An electric reduces emissions. Replace an old thermal with an electric up to three times more than replace an old thermal with a new thermal. The brands, moreover, are already conscious. And we are talking now; the Euro 6 regulation, coming from Euro 7, has just come into force, that the end of the heat is something imminent, that the end of the traditional engines is something imminent. The best favor, the only favor, that we can do to our industry is also to send them the message that they aim as soon as possible, or increase the efforts they are making in the transition to the electric, because there will be no future in the automotive than electrification. And whoever is not part of that future won't be part of the future of automotive. Por tants, we defend to help people in a specific period, as transitions, and to compare electric vehicles with thermal, but only from this perspective of transition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u102	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u103	Thank you, President. Egun on. The Basque Socialists want to frame this debate in our political commitment to enhance sustainable mobility in Basque, connected with the main challenges we are facing globally, such as the fight against climate change and the commitment to innovation and digitalisation. The European Commission, in the field of automotive, has proposed to accelerate the production and development of sustainable vehicles and alternative fuels, to establish European financing mechanisms for the development of electric vehicle charging infrastructure, the renewal of fleets by electric vehicles, by municipalities and companies, and a sustainable transport infrastructure for modal change to cleaner mobility. The European Commission is also pointing out – and that is very important – that public investment to relaunch the recovery of the automotive sector must be associated with the industry's commitment to invest in cleaner and more sustainable mobility. This strategy is aligned with the Next Generation EU fund policy. Hence, the Government of Spain, in its Plan for Recovery, Transformation or Resilience, proposes to allocate part of the resources to strengthen the strategic autonomy, modernization, decarbonization and digitization of our automotive sector. At the end of last year, the Ministry of Ecological Transition and the Demographic Challenge launches an expression or manifestation of interest relating to electric mobility, on infrastructure for recharge, innovation and electrification of the mobile park. And Euskadi has presented two expressions of interest, with projects on lithium ion batteries and another gigafactory project with new generation batteries. The Basque Government has proposed, in the Euskadi Next programme, a structure around eight major components, which reflect the priorities of reform and investment in the various areas of public policy, with the aim of addressing a number of challenges for Euskadi. One of these eight components, the fourth specifically, is sustainable mobility. Today, the debate on the commercial and sale of vehicles brings us to a part of the value chain of the car. Analysis of what happened in 2020 with the Basque car dealers shows that their revenues have been reduced by 17% and that the fall in sales has been 24%. If we analyze the data and rely on the billing, the area that suffered most was that of the new vehicle; it fell by 18%, to 1,063 million euros. The used vehicle dropped by 11.3%, to 150 million euros, and in the after-sales, 145 million euros were moved. In this situation, the ERTE, in an activity on which more than 6,000 jobs depend, have, according to the sector, been an essential instrument for the maintenance of the workforce, and therefore also for the automotive market to be able to recover. Of the data published by Faconauto, by autonomous communities, in January 2021, in Euskadi, 1,724 enrolments occurred, representing a 4.1% share and, in turn, a 33.5% decrease in enrolments, compared to January 2020. In the ranking by autonomous communities, Euskadi is the sixth community in terms of registered vehicle units. By quota, it is the fifth, and is positioned as the fourth autonomous community that has had the least drop in enrolments in January 2021. The reasons that have caused this fall in vehicle sales in January and February in the whole of Spain, as expressed by entities such as Faconauto, Anfac or Gamvam, in some media, are also diverse. But I would summarize them in the following: In December 2020, many automations were carried out, due to the change in the registration tax, in connection with the application of the WLTP emissions regulations. Dealers bought many cars to expand the targets of the brands, although those vehicles are now in stock, and by having to exit it, the registration of new vehicles is prevented. In addition, these facts are compounded by the fact that private consumers, faced with the uncertainty of the COVID-19 and the arrival of electrification, are delaying as much as possible the purchase of a new vehicle. Nor should it be forgotten that tourism – a sector that is now falling from the top, since the beginning of the pandemic – promotes the registration of nearly 30% of the vehicles in Spain by the rental companies. Another reason is that, by January 2020, the economic and health crisis had not begun. Therefore, the comparative reference is distorted. In addition, in January of this year, there have been two fewer working days, five full weekends and, in 2020, however, there were four full weekends, and this has a negative impact on commercial data. Also the halting of activities in the middle of the country by the effects of that stalemate, the so-called Filomena, had its impact in the field of sales, and caused the sales incentive to fall. And the entry into force of the registration tax was also the subject – or, rather, was the effect – of these falls. The data, as far as purchasing channels are concerned, are also interesting to see the dimension of the debate that we are putting forward. The channel that has experienced the biggest fall has been that of the renters, with 57.7%. The private sector fell by 43,8 %. And the best purchasing channel was that of the companies, with a drop of 18,7 %. With regard to fuels, plug-in hybrid technology is the best performing technology, with a 78% increase. The second best-behavioural fuel in February of this year was hybrids, with a growth of 10%. Gasoline and diesel have fallen by 47% and 49% respectively. The electrics have fallen by 42%, and the gas is falling by 20%. The only sales segment that grows in February are vehicles over 20 years old, which in turn prevents the recovery of the market and the necessary renovation of the park to meet the decarbonisation objectives, which is achieved with the dynamism of this market. The conclusion we draw from this data is that the Basque Government must act on several fronts, draw up a strategy for economic recovery and global employment, with well-defined policies and lines of action, also in the area of automotive. For this reason, the Berpiztu Plan includes, in the energy strategy and in the Strategic Plan for Industrial Development, the actions and lines of action of the Basque Government with regard to industrial ecosystems, including automotive. An industrial subsector which accounts for two thirds of industrial activity in Euskadi, 17% of Basque GDP, excluding the Mercedes plant, which in itself accounts for 3%. With regard to market dynamism, several public programmes have been implemented in Spain and in Euskadi. The aid we have had in Euskadi to buy vehicles in 2020 has been: the Moves Plan, the Renewal Plan 2020, both at national level, and we also have in Euskadi, expressly, with the EVE Plan 2020, a programme of own aid for investments in transport and efficient mobility, and also with the PAVEA Plan 2020, a programme of aid for investments in efficient and alternative vehicles in Euskadi, managed by the Basque Energy Agency and with a credit of EUR 10 million. The Basque Socialists have tabled a joint amendment with the Basque Nationalist Group, in which we urge the Basque Government to channel the necessary public aid, with the aim of promoting economic recovery and energy transition, as well as combating climate change in the area of mobility. The action of the Basque Government is established following the analysis and evaluation of the impact of the programmes that have been launched, also taking into account the impact of the Euskadi Next and the transformations that the automotive industry and the field of mobility are going to experience in the short and medium term. Therefore, the Government's commitment to implement aid policies on the basis of the Berpiztu economic recovery and employment plan, following the strategic lines established by the Department of Economic Development, Sustainability and the Environment and the guidelines of the Automotive Bureau, in which the Government of Spain and the Autonomous Communities participate, in addition to the entire value chain of the automotive sector, and developing the momentum plan for the entire value chain of the automotive sector, must be options that respond, because of their position in contact with the sector, to the problem we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Barbarese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u105	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good noon. I will begin, Mr Gil, by saying that the Basque Government likes the new plans. And this is not a conclusion that I have drawn after talking to the government, but by reviewing the trajectory of the last five years of the aid launched by the Basque Energy Agency, as it is well known. In fact, last year, a renewed plan began on 30 January; in June, the allocation doubled, i.e. two months after the covid broke into our lives, the allocation doubled. And it's a new plan that last year worked very well. So much so that, before its completion date, it was January this year, as there were already those 10 million euros of the plan awarded to buyers. Of course, will there be any new plans in the future? Well, it probably is. If we see that the government in previous years likes the plans renews, and if we see that the sales go wrong, there are likely to be new plans renews. But we know that we can't speculate with these kinds of things, because we know that if a new plan is announced in some way renews, or the zurrumurru begins, what happens is that in the dealers it doesn't call anyone to buy; they call to ask. So there is no need to make any kind of speculation or raise any kind of expectation. Nor can we make public, on the part of the Government, any calendar or frequency which indicates that, for example, every two or three years there will be a new plan, because we would achieve the same: an absolutely captive market, a market absolutely dependent on government aid. And that is not what the concessionaires in the first place want, nor the government, and neither do we. Therefore, the analysis is done at the beginning of the year. The Government will make its analysis and decide what it has to say, but it is not the task, at least of this group, to speculate on such issues. And, the second aspect of the debate, it does seem a little more interesting to me, and it is more controversial. And besides, I liked to see the different nuances that were introduced in the Bildu and Podemos debate, right? And it is: who do we help in the renewal plans? Or, in other words, we have to corner the technologies today. We have to corner the diesel and gasoline technologies. Our position in this sense is clear: we cannot, today, corner diesel and gasoline. For what reasons? The first is that the construction of the electric car, the ecological footprint that leaves the car, the construction of the electric car and its battery, today, of green has nothing; it is more polluting than that of a diesel or that of a gasoline. And, besides, the energy mix that is then fed on the electrolines is also not green. Well, you'll tell me, "Well, let's get on with it." Of course, we must make progress in this area, Mr Casanova. Now, I hope it's good for you, because at the PTS last week, we've seen that wind turbines don't work for you anywhere. In any case, progress must be made there, but the reality that we have today is the one that exists. The second is that 40,000 people live in Euskadi. And he's a big transatlantic who's turning. There's a great transformation. In addition, Europe is leveraging, and the transformation into the energy model, also in the automotive sector, is something that is progressing at a rapid pace; there is nothing more to see than the investment plans of Volkswagen or Toyota, announced only a few months and a half ago. And, therefore, it is something that is advancing at a great speed. But, to this day, there are still people living on diesel and gasoline, which until recently has been Europe's strong point. Europe's strong point, and, specifying, Germany's strong point were diesel engines, huh? That, finally, I – let's say that – saw puzzled how some European leaders, even German leaders, fell into the trap of the "dieselgate", possibly encouraged by other countries, which, at best, do well is hybrid technology or gasoline technology. You don't have to fall into that kind of trap. There is no need to stigmatize them today. And the third reason we don't have to corner diesel or gasoline is to think who is the ultimate beneficiary of the renewal plans. And to me, Mr Casanova, your amendment seems classy. There, the truth is, I agree with Mr Hernandez. Why? Let's see, the renewal plan usually benefits people who express their car for 10 or 15 years until the car is worth less than 3,000 euros, which is more or less, or 2,000, which is more or less the renewal aids. That is, we are not talking about high classes that change their BMW every five years because they like pants; they are middle-class people, the social majority of our country, who are bought – by the way, last year the best-selling car that is bought – a Dacia Duster, in the first place; and secondly, a Seat Lion. That is the reality we have in Euskadi and, therefore, we cannot now engage all consumers to buy a Volkswagen ID.3, which is one of the cheap cars and costs 40,000 euros. Therefore, I believe that, in that ongoing struggle, in that compartmentalization that has the left of causes, I believe that sometimes you do not have to forget that you have to defend the racer. Finally, the trees of the Amazon also worry us very much – really, I'm not kidding – and the energy transition is fundamental, but one doesn't have to lose the north. We cannot, today, implement the aid only in electric cars; it is not the reality of today, possibly the reality within five years yes, when there are already eight gigafactories of batteries in Europe, when already that economy of scale to which you mention, Casanova, because act; prices lower; we have more electrolines, and people already have in their garage – at a little more normal cost – plugs to charge their car. Therefore, this turning point is going to be given and it is going to be given by a series of policies that Europe is undertaking, with which we fully agree, which are very demanding policies and which are practically central planning of the economy. There Mr Hernández will be happy, won't he?, because what Europe says is: I am a private sector, well; there is free market in Europe, too; people export, import and produce as they please, but see, your production margin is this [Keinu bat egin du eskuekin], via emissions, and if you get out, we fine you; we fine you so much that it doesn't come out profitable not to comply with the norm. Europe, therefore, rightly, what it is doing is that Europe is putting itself as a spearhead, as a pioneer, in that transformation towards the electric, and today, for example, the one that is going to invest the most in the electric car of the world, with a lot of difference, it is not Tesla, it is Volkswagen. But I am sure, knowing the German character, that it has possibly been very induced by emission regulations that are incredibly demanding. Mr Casanova mentioned the Euro 6; the coming Euro 7, which will probably be approved in 2022 – here I am going to speculate a little bit, Mr Gil – by 2025... The Euro 7 will probably mark a maximum of 10 milligrams per kilometre in diesel cars: my 2011 Volkswagen Polo has 70 horses – it was a car with very little power – and it pollutes 128 milligrams, that is, 128 to 10 in a 10-year time span. That is to say, we are facing a genuine revolution, very ambitious on the part of Europe, which seeks precisely that point of inflection at which electric cars are attractive for what they offer and for their price, not for the public aid they receive. And that's happening and, possibly, within three or four years, that's already happening in a more natural way. Therefore, the war is not electric versus gasoline, but old cars versus modern car, because the ideal would be that we all buy electric cars. But, finally, I wonder: does one who buys a Dacia Duster or a Seat Lion – perhaps that a little bit more – have the economic capacity, the purchasing power, to buy a Volkswagen ID.3 today? Well, I don't think so. Most, at least, don't. Therefore, the reality of the moment must be taken into account. So, in conclusion, the wager which Europe makes in the land of motion seems to us to be a highly illusion, a highly effective figure, to have streets without noise and without smoke; and besides, to health it is probably much better, and we wager that it is much better, and that the Government does it, but today it must be considered as reality. And what we have to do is not only change cars, but we agree with those who change them; we have to make the movement more tolerable, the public transport more bearable, electrified, or hydrogenized, in which even the artificial intelligence is introduced. Public transports... I opened or built the subways of Bilbo and Donoste, and opened the Gastian railroad. Even the high speed train is our bet, you know, and it's the first bet in Europe, and it'll be everything and the news of the cars' fleet, and I'm sure I'm sure, the emissions, the discharges, the speedier way down, and you're neuters in 2050 years, as far as carbon's concerned. In this way, therefore, this government will continue, with all the efforts necessary to renew the fleet of the carriages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u106	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. Passing over to the answer shift, representative of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadans, Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u107	Mr Hernandez, I recognize a capacity for the flowery application of the epithet, which has surprised me, but I thank you, because I find it very amusing at this hour of the afternoon. If for you to propose a renewed plan is "fruit of the liberal imaginative sclerotic", then, I don't know what you would call the proposal that appears in your amendment, asking, demanding the government... that "the Basque Government guarantees with funds the continuity of companies in the automotive sector, especially – it says – those that are likely to get into crisis", that is, those that are less competitive. I do not know whether you have ever set up or run a company, but you must know that it is impossible, and inadequate, to ensure the continuity of any company that is not competitive, and less to use the money of all citizens for that purpose. To set up a company – and I'm going a little bit on the subject, but I'll be right back –... Setting up a company always involves risk, and that is why all companies have a life cycle, by which they are born, grow and die. Of course, we can also dedicate the Basque Government to buying companies in crisis, and so, in addition to doing a great favor to its owners, we state the economy, which is no longer done in the few remaining communist dictatorships in the world: Russia, China, Vietnam, Cuba, Venezuela, etc. I recommend that Mr. Hernández update his manual. This is not going to encourage the Basque Government to buy companies. This is simply to help people change cars for safety and the environment. Look, proposing a new plan is nothing liberal; it's quite the opposite, it's just asking for public support for people who need it. This is nothing liberal. It's right on the other end, isn't it? And, of course, it's no regressive, classy policy. This is, precisely, to help people who can't, to help people who need it. And okay, it's clear to me that you're going to vote no to our GNP. What is not clear to me is whether or not you agree that there is a renewed plan. Mr Casanova, we agree that we are in line with the introduction of the electric car. And from there it should be deduced that yes to a renewed plan. I see... And if we all agree that it is necessary to accelerate the electrification of the sector, that it is necessary to help the recovery of the sector because it has had a drop in important sales, and moreover the Basque Government likes the renewed plans, because then I understand that the logical conclusion is that forward! It's not about speculation. It's about doing it; it's about doing it! And do it soon, and do it fast, and do it now, which is when it takes. Because maybe in a year, you don't have to. That's why we propose to do it now, isn't it? We agree on the rest. That is, of course, progress must be made towards electrification. And we also consider that technology that is not electric cannot be cornered yet, because it is about helping to change medium-priced cars. It is that today electric cars, although it is true that ecologically they are much more convenient, as has been said here, are very expensive. And we can't condemn people who don't want to buy electric cars that don't have help. We do not think that should be the case. No more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u108	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Does Mr. Hernandez have a word to say? Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u109	Mr. Gil Vegas, from your intervention it follows that helping people buy a car is the kind of political activity that public administrations have to do to help those who need it most; that is, that people who don't arrive at the end of the month what they need is to help them buy a car. Yeah. You have taken it a little to the extreme, because you wanted to caricaturize, because let's talk about what we're talking about, when we talk between you and me or when we debate between you and me, you try to end up talking about communism and communist dictatorships, because, of course, I don't know what has given rise to you again to talk about that. I have described yes, I have described yes, a model that we consider liberal, with a number of policies that have been implemented in some countries and that we do consider liberal, which is an ideological description of a specific model. Look, plan renews yes or plan renews no, you ask us the direct question, because it is not clear to you what our position is regarding a plan renews. What we say about the renewal plan is that plans renew in the future cannot be like plans renew so far, as the plans renew you propose. And, for example, I'm going to go to the specific question that you are... Of which you have come here today to propose a concrete initiative: electric vehicle fleet. The plans renew, for us, have to be aimed at enhancing public transport, that is, to reduce the promotion of the purchase of the private, even electric car, and to help the industry to move towards production, for example, of buses, trains, collective electric-cutting vehicles. For giving the concrete answer to the question you asked us. And, in addition, in their original initiative, that is, in their initiative, in their proposal, they continue to insist on combustion vehicles and to help, through public money, to maintain combustion vehicles. Don't rule it out. And we don't agree on that. And what we're coming to tell you is that, on the subject of renew yes or renew no plan, for us, behind what's behind the renew plan, it's something much more complex and of a great depth for the future we have, that we can't just talk about renew yes or renew no plans, looking in the short term. Because what we have behind us in this case is an industrial sector that in Euskadi is very important for the employment of thousands of people and because we have climate change on the table. We can have a future with more or less cars, with more or less jobs. If we don't have a planet – and look at me as the least green in my coalition –..., if we don't have a planet, we won't have either. And we, therefore, think that the way should be to change the transport model. We cannot go to a future in which the current combustion car park in the world is simply transformed by an electric car park. The model must also be changed. And the new plans must also go in that direction, and we believe that the reorientation of the car industry on that path must be encouraged, so that it will also help to change the model of mobility, which is very important in that regard. That is why we do not agree with your initiative, and I tell you clearly. For us, it goes beyond simply answering to renew plan yes or renew plan no. Because for us, behind this issue, the planning and organization of the industry is very important. It is true: you said yes I am a supporter of models of centralist planning, etc., and that in some way Europe forced the producers, the producing companies, to that planning, through a series of parameters and obligations. That's true. I lack the part of the property, which I still think that social, public and workers' property is the best way. But the plans are renewing, yes or no... The future is not as you have proposed to us so far, and that is why I am talking to you, we have talked to you, about liberal policies, because you are the ones who have been applying it, and it is simply public money for people to buy. That is the renewed plan that you continue to propose, and without discarding gasoline and diesel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u110	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u111	If we replicate each party, we begin with PP. Guk, PPren proposemenari, 'ez' bozkatuko diugu. The proposal of the People's Party seems to us to be a Trojan horse. It is even good that you have recognized that the future of mobility is electric; but, in the background, in a package supporting electric mobility, families, self-employed and so on, what you continue to ask for is plans to support the purchase of thermal cars. In that sense, it is a Trojan horse, which holds something inside it that we cannot assume. For us, financing the acquisition of private vehicles should never, ever be a task of the public administration. Never! Investment should be made in other types of shared mobility policies. What is happening is that we are at an emergency; we are at an officially climate emergency, and every year won in the struggle for electrification of private transport are tons, billions, millions of tons of CO 2 they're not going to pour into the atmosphere. In situations of emergency, emergency policies are applied, and in this case, in this exceptional area, it is in which Euskal Herria Bildu proposes that the acquisition of a very specific type of vehicle can be subsidized, with a very specific objective, and not only for the purpose of benefiting those who receive such aid, but, subsequently, by means of that effect, to which we have referred to economies of scale, so that the whole of society can access such vehicles. We are going to support the proposal, although we believe that today the debate should focus more on what the People's Party was proposing: to position itself around supporting policies or not supporting the purchase of vehicles. And that is why we have focused more on how we should or how we understand that these policies should be defined. And the PSOE and PNV response... Your amendment and your intervention has been, I don't know how to define it already, evanescent. Because what you have proposed, I do not know, because, at least, by continuing to do the usual, we know more or less what it refers to, but here we do not know if you are talking about 10 million for a new renewal plan, like last year, 8 billion or the application provides the 8 billion that France has invested. We do not know what they are proposing to us; good intentions, but without any concreteness. And, at this moment it is necessary, I believe, to concretely. Mr. Arruabarrena, don't demagogy. There are people who can't buy a new car either. Do you marginalize people who don't have that purchasing power? There are people who can't buy an old car either. And all the skateboards we're seeing on the streets, electric skateboards, with people carved on top, are not just for hobby, for snobs; there are people who are in a situation of difficulty. Margin them? Is it classy to pay for a new plan for someone who can buy a car, leaving these people out? Is it classist, for example, organic farming, because it has a higher price? Let's be precise with the terms. The best-selling car, if not wrong, is a Dacia, but not the Duster, but the Sandero, which is even smaller and cheaper, and has just had its first electric version, the Spring; about 15,000 euros. Therefore, we are already talking about consumable terms. The average cost of the car, acquired and registered again in the Spanish state, is close to 20,000 euros. So, you were talking about ID3 that's part of 30,000, and that, with some help to make up for that part, you'd get close. In fact, in Germany, with the 9,000 euros of aid, ID3 remains at twenty-five thousand euros. And that for German purchasing power, it's not a car for everyone, because in Germany there are also people in difficulty, who can't access that or another vehicle, but it's a cost to the middle class in general. And as we said, as they become widespread and popular, electric cars are going to fall apart, and it's going to be something radical and we're going to see it in the next few years. But you have to give it a little push, because it said that here the days, the months, the years... They're measured in tons of carbon dioxide, they're measured in degrees of warming, and we're not about to waste time. We did not want to talk about industrial policy, but it is clear that we have a fundamental challenge in how to develop the whole transition; because, in the end, the Basque industry does not depend on the cars we buy here, it depends on the purchase decisions that are made in the rest, because it is an economy that also exports automotive product. Germany and France have already said this; they are the cradle of the European automotive industry, and Germany and France have excluded non-electrical vehicles from their support plans for the purchase of vehicles. Why? Because they send a message to the automotive industry: either you're in that fight, or you're the best making electric cars, or you're not going to be. And that's helping the industry. Finally, I did not want to fail to mention the fight for the factory of the gigafactory that we need to implement in this country, with European funds or without European funds. They're ahead of us, I was going to say on the left, on the right, on Catalonia, on Extremadura... We are playing a lot here too, and we need, from an industrial perspective, to be able to continue to play the role that we have been playing so far in the global context of automotive, that factory, and we are also willing to work and commit ourselves to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u112	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours. From...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u113	Yes, with permission... of the Presidency, and from the seat. Just a few notes, to make clear the position of the Basque Socialists. And from respect and affection, Mr Gil, the Basque and Citizen People's Group has not invented anything; they have not invented gunpowder with this initiative. And I think it has also become clear that we need to be very careful here, because everyone has put forward their positions, and no compromise amendment has been tabled here on this issue. That means something, too. And I think we should appreciate it. Look, the Basque Socialists know the goodness of the plans has been renewing for a long time. In 2009, with the government of the lehendakari Patxi López, in the face of this financial, economic and social crisis, the renewed plans had, let's say, the possibility of stimulating and incentivizing consumption at a frankly raw moment, as I say, in the face of a financial and economic situation that had not been compared for many years. But since this is an important instrument, we were more concerned about the need for public aid. And public aid does, but for the entire value chain of the automotive sector. Some speakers have already explained it. Not only is it worth helping what the market is (selling, buying...), but what needs to be helped is also that manufacturing that allows you to have efficient, clean and suitable cars to the average economic capacity of the working people. Therefore, I think the important thing is to aim for the renovation of that vehicle fleet. Such consumption must be encouraged. And we need to get a fleet of efficient and clean vehicles in emissions. You were talking about the self-employed and the SMEs. See, in the MOVES and Renovations plans, the EVE 2020 Plan and the PAVEA Plan, were helping the self-employed and SMEs. He wouldn't let himself... have not been excluded, at any time. I was under the impression, on his own initiative, that it had been so, when this fact had not taken place. But it is also true that you are putting forward conditions which do not have to define or restrict the possible lines of public aid to the automotive sector at this time. And, I told you before, something will happen when we have not managed to make any compromise amendments. Therefore, different visions, particular visions, which have not, let us say, been welcomed by the whole House or by the majority of the House. The amendment of Basque Nationalists and Basque Socialists, someone commented – I think Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, said – the same goes for one thing rather than another. Well, maybe I do. But it does have that virtuality and goodness, which, in fact, raises public aid and with a series, let's say, of objectives, which is the ecological transition and the fight against climate change. Therefore, there is a definition and there is a strategy. And I must tell Mr Casanova that the Basque Socialists – I have already commented on this in my first speech – when the Basque Government presents itself to two expressions of interest, one of them is the issue of gigafactory, and the other, the question of new generation batteries. It seems to me that step could not be forgotten. And I think if Euskadi is there, it's a good fact and it's a good step. Otherwise, nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Barbarese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u115	Thank you. Mr Gil, if you like the plans so much, ask them in the governments where they are, because in Euskadi you are asking for the second. Last year there was already one, which in June was extended to twice its endowment. And here they're asking for another, three months after the second. Therefore, you have an option there to influence different governments. Mr Hernández, I agree that the mobility model needs to be changed. And the mobility model is changing; it's changing root. Instead of being the car... instead of the proprietary car scheme, we're going to a car as a service; it's electrification, it's hydrogen, it's the fuel mix they're investigating in Petronor, it's the circular economy... There's a lot of paradigm changes in there, and they're changing. The Basque Government has there a seed in that jewel they have in Boroa, along with Gestamp and the automotive cluster. Let's hope it germinates into interesting projects. But, of course, they will be contributions to a change that is already taking place. En estae chap debbas, hay a vetes teroros donde y Podemos, con sus matices y sus disferencias, caen en paradojas un poco esquiofrenicas. Porque es como... It's carwork, but no cars. Pipeline, but no tubes. Ships, yes, but ships... International trade and trade with a lot of limitations. Is there any reactive energy, but where? Because then there's PTS, and there's no... In all your councils there's only trouble, isn't it? Melodrama bat ematen du. Not with you or without you. Horrek, dynamika horrek, ez gaitu aurrerapausoak ematera eramaten Herri moduan. Eta kontraesan guztiak, sheath, erralism-faltarekin betetzen dituzue. Ze, jakina, Casanova jauna, zuk esaten duzu, beribile elektrikoak 8,000 euro edo 2,000 euro gehiago balio baditu, Gobernuak hori diruz lagundu eta direntzia hori deuseztatu egiten da. Already... Baina diruz laguntzea eskatzen duzu hori, gero exe bakoitzean ipini behar den kargagailua, ze gaur egun batteryk birkargatzeko lau ordu egon behar zara horr, zera begira, eta gaur egungo technologiarekin, klaro, egiten duzuena da barrierak jarri eta jarri... What you do is, of course, the plan renews, you say, Mr Casanova, the plan renews, as it is made, for example, last year's plan, where diesel and gasoline are not cornered, you are putting an entry barrier to those who cannot buy the car. But you're adding two more barriers. It's the need of the electric car, and then you have to have a garage on the property. Today, with technology, because no one is going to be in Elorrio's parking lot for four or six hours, for example, where there is an electrolinera, looking at the sky or having a coffee... Then, realism, today, steps will already be taken as that turning point is given and as that critical mass to which you have also referred is being generated. And where will that critical mass be made? So, where citizens have immensely greater purchasing power than in the middle and south of Europe, for example, in Norway. You've shown a very interesting graph. I have not been able to see it, but I believe that in the first position there is Norway. Do you know which car was best sold in Norway last year? The Audi TT e-tron. The second, the Tesla Model 3. And the third, the Volkswagen ID.3. And you tell me: is that now comes the Dacia Spring, with a price of 15,000 euros... Well, I've heard 18,000. But in any case, it will be economic, with an autonomy of 200 kilometers, with an autonomy of 200 kilometers. So, this isn't just going to raise awareness. This is going to offer, make an attractive offer. And for that, the strategy of Europe and the strategy of this government, because it is correct; it is to tighten through emission regulations, so that the manufacturers put on and continue to put on – because they have put on a lot – the batteries, and bring to the market offers that are interesting. I say, not because of the amount of subsidies they receive, but because of themselves, because of their attractiveness, price and benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u116	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. After discussion, we'll put the original text of another proposal than the Basque Groups of Populara-Ciudadans. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 41; the votes given, 74; the supporters 7; the opponents are 67; abstaining, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u117	So, not allowed original text. After that, we'll vote together with Podemos-Nozzer's full-line correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 40; votes given, 73; supporters 26; the contrary is 47; abstaining, 0; white, 0.1,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u118	So it's not accepted. We're going to vote for the full rights of the EH team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 40; the votes given, 73; the supporters 20; the contrary, 41; the abscesssions, 12; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u119	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. And finally, we vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociialists of Basque Sociialists in full file. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 41; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 40; the oppositions 28; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-25.u120	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was four and six in the afternoon.
