ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, I inform you that six lords and ladies have inherited the vote. One theme: "Annomy, Ogage, and Preservation of the Presidency Committee, about the bill of law which the General Preservation of the 2022 years of the Basque Autonomy Equire. Discipline and final resolution. The following is the procedure which will be used to discuss the judgment: First, the first round of the teams, the 30 minutes from the small to the big, to show the position of the teams in regard to the impact they've made, and if they're reserved for correction, what reasons they've had to reserve. The answer shift will be 10 minutes. When the debate is over, those who are reserved for divisional corrections will vote together according to their groups. Anyway, if any team asks them to vote separately, they will. Then the squares and appendages that collect the budget's sump of expenses will be voted with the changes approved on the committee's controversy. As to the corrections proposed to the articles, we shall first vote the amendments introduced by the Basque Popular Groups-Ciudadans, and then the corrections made by the Podemos-IU team together, and, to conclude, we shall vote the remaining articles, attachments, and title of law. So, after we've explained it, we'll deal with it. Miss team, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u1	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. As you can imagine, these are not budgets that represent what we in Vox defend. They are not budgets that seek to defend our culture, our traditions and our national identity. These accounts seek just the opposite: more privileges, more differences, more distance, no cooperation with neighbouring communities except that which is intended to be annexed, and also no solidarity with Spaniards born outside the Basque Country. As to why we have not tabled partial amendments to these budgets, I would like to remind you, as an anecdote, that last year we tabled more than 200 amendments to the Budget Bill for 2021, which did not deserve the least attention from either of you. The reason? The perverse game played by the anti-democratic cordon parties, committed to pointing out Vox as a political option to eliminate. Committed to pointing out Vox as a non-talking party. Nothing that comes from Vox makes sense; everything goes against Vox. And then things happen on the street. There is hate violence directed against anyone who means with Vox. Cordon to which, by the way, Mr Azpiazu himself joined with his statements on Vox at the beginning of the parliamentary process of these budgets. But don't be mistaken. We... Its repugnant anti-democratic cord is not the reason why we do not make partial amendments. We do not table them because to submit partial amendments means to be partially in agreement with these budgets, and nothing further from reality: in Vox we reject the whole of these accounts completely. We will never, or partially, agree on budgets based on the construction of a Basque nation independent of Spain. In a scandalous, unnecessary and duplicated political spending on the central administration, and completely contaminated by the 2030 Agenda and the ideological delusions of the globalist elites. The objective of these budgets is not to... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... and contaminated entirely by the 2030 Agenda and the ideological delusions of the globalist elites. The objective of these budgets is not people, let alone their interests, to meet their needs and solve their problems. No, no, The aim is the above-mentioned completion of an independent national project. It is the overcoming of a deeply insolidary political status. It is to consolidate into power based on grateful stomachs and to turn into certain realities that are not. But in this short period of time that I have to expose, one third of any other group, thanks to the anti-democratic cordon imposed on us, Mr Democrats, I am going to provide some figures so high that they justify the non-submission of partial amendments, and only that of the whole, because our distance, with these budgets, is infinite. First, the instruments for advancing this national construction that have been moving their accounts for too many years are varied. And I'll start. We are not tired of denouncing the editorial line of EITB, the immense expenditure that obliges the maintenance of a fundamentally partial entity, which we all pay, but which only serves the interests of one. But the reality is that it is a flagrant waste to allocate 161 million euros to a radio television that is considered that of a differentiated country of Spain, that makes this difference sign of identity, that builds its Euskal Herria based on biased information, of secessionist political line...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u2	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u3	...and nothing respectful of Spanish-cut political options. Another element for secession is its linguistic policy. Since the restoration of democracy, the Basque has been a distinguishing element, a sign of the identity of the good Basque. And there's no better Basque than the one who doesn't want to know anything about Spain. I could also focus on those many millions of euros that you allocate to the euskaldunisation of adults who, moreover, should already have been euskaldunized according to the imposition of your linguistic policy on education. More than 40 million euros are wasted on the consolidation of one of the official languages above the other. And what about Paris, again, successor to the Basque embassy in France. It's hard to imagine. EUR 1.1 million out of a total of EUR 11 million earmarked for Basque external action. A blatant duplicity when Spain already has a Ministry of Foreign Affairs with exclusive competence in this field. Or those 50 million budgeted for development cooperation, money that does not contribute to solving country dramas and that, in many cases, are generators of migration processes that no one wants. As I have just said, that is what the Spanish Government is for, to channel all that cooperation, to concentrate it where the greatest impact will be, where the needs are greater and directed to the general interest of Spain. It's a classic that network of entities, organizations, public societies, institutes, with blurry, duplicated functions and objectives, with a set of directors, intermediate positions and workers living to do between little and nothing. That is, to follow the guidelines that their elders of the Basque Government send. For your part, as you well know, Vox does not share his gender diagnosis. I do not see a homogeneous collective, the woman systematically threatened, discriminated against and raped by another homogeneous collective, that of man. I see different manifestations of violence in and out of the family environment, something that, in these budgets, is not materialized anywhere. I do not believe in the collectivization of women and that they treat us as weak, as helpless, that without father state we would be at the dawn of the violent. I believe in strong women, that we thrive for ourselves and bring forth our families with our effort and sacrifice, equal to each other, our husbands or the rest of the men. I occupy this privileged place with you, men too, thanks to my effort and my determination, not thanks to any quota or favor that you grant me. Moreover, the figure given by the Basque Government itself that EUR 2 billion of the expenditure on these budgets is earmarked for gender policies, that is, 16.5 % of the total, is scandalous. And don't take me to the "with me or against me" field. If it were $2 billion to fight domestic violence, my opinion would be different. But they are a lot of euros focused only on one of the manifestations of violence that is experienced in the family environment, obviating the rest of the violence that does not enjoy or deserve their protection. In this line, Emakunde is an example of globalist ideological waste, 7.3 million euros for women, which only serves to pay for those who work in Emakunde, not those who really need concrete, specific and urgent attention. EUR 7.3 million for the evaluation of policies, propaganda and actions with a gender perspective for the discrimination of one sex against the other. What can we say about all these items of expenditure for your new climate religion, which destroys our industry and our employment, which prioritizes false climate change, over the bread that our workers carry home every day. And more superfluous spending. Spain already has its defender of the people, that of the Spanish people, certain that with functions more than dubious, as has been proven in the debate on the non-compliance with the provisions of the courts on the presence of the Castilian in the Catalan school. But the Basque defender doesn't do much more either. Ararteko, who has an older brother at the national level, concentrates just over €6 million invested in staff spending, a new car and little more. It's money for propaganda, for image campaigns, for marketing, to sell commitments to citizens. It is expenditure of a marked ideological character, absolutely indispensible. And in the experience, too, there is the test. We come to the chapter on subsidies and media aid for the use of euskera. This government insists on spending more than €7 million each year, the defence of the Basque country, which pollutes everything and, in this case, serves to condition the editorial line of the media, to guarantee a present solvent to those closest to nationalism and secessionism. And I leave for the end the instrument of this Executive to change the recent history of the Basque Country and also of the rest of Spain. Gogora is the institute of memorylessness. It is a tangible proof of the obsession of socialists and nationalists with the face washing of terrorism and the abertzale left, with the reconstruction of history, reliving what happened 80 years ago, the main focus of their work, and relegating a second or fifth place to our most recent past, that macabre starring ETA and its political arm, whose extension is also palpable in this Parliament. Nearly EUR 5 million of investment in memory to prepare the ground for alliances, previously unthinkable, with those who still do not pay any toll for their complicity with ETA, with those who haunt the era Mikel Antza, when he will declare for his involvement in the murder of Gregorio Ordóñez, and denounce as a state crime the death for cancer of Troitiño, sentenced to more than 2,000 years in prison for 22 murders. With these... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... Ordóñez, and they denounce as a state crime the death for cancer of Troitiño, sentenced to more than 2,000 years in prison for 22 murders. With these pacts you, ladies and gentlemen. Only EH Bildu's support of these accounts, even in the form of abstention, is a major reason to reject them for Vox. The accounts on the left abertzale can never be Vox's. Never. We work for national reconstruction, for regaining the unity of our nation, nothing to do with its Basque national construction. Our alternative is not patches to your accounts, which are to be approved today. Our project is called more Agenda Spain, a rational alternative to deeply irrational globalist agendas, in addition to being imposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u4	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The Basque Group is represented by the popular-Ciudados. Mr. Gordillo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u5	All right. Thank you very much, Madam President. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Our group would have very much liked to see in these budgets, which should be the budgets of recovery, a breakthrough from a triple point of view: the legal, the economic and the political. But, unfortunately, we have met with budgets that follow the lines of the previous ones and that therefore repeat their mistakes and shortcomings. And it will leave us unarmed in the face of the challenges that our society will face in the short term, in the medium term in the future and, above all, in the next generations. Look, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Azpiazu, Mr Pedro María, we have given you a hand, we have put forward a different way of making budgets for what had been the last occasions. We are proposing an amendment to revenue precisely. We propose that, given the inability of governments in general, the Basque Autonomous Government in particular, to implement their budget lines and given that we have a significant amount, a substantial amount of money, accumulated there in accounts, which will not be generating any interest, unlike the debt that is generating interest for us, we propose alternatives: to return that money to the productive sector, to the citizens, since the Government was unable to spend it, and we also offered to do so through a process that would last even the rest of the legislature. We're meeting with the government's door. I believe that the Government here was more concerned that it seemed to see who was getting up first from a table where we were never really invited, it seems, in good faith. We, from after the holiday, from after the summer, did some management to have a meeting with the councillor and to really put forward budgets from the beginning, not budgets in which the government makes them whole and, as a contract of accession, asks you to give it all its conformity in return, perhaps, for a minimum or a couple of more cosmetic clauses and that is it. We wanted real budgets, because we believe that there is a need for budgets for the recovery of the economy and employment. Good. We weren't heard, we weren't heard. We were also criticized from other points of view. But those challenges are still there. The challenges are known to all. We have a very important challenge: the ageing of the population, the increase in the population that is also in what are called passive classes, i.e. retirees; the flight of young people to other communities, by the way, which offer opportunities, and also to the productive sector, because they are much more open and seem to be more attractive than ours. I am not just talking about the Community of Madrid, I can even refer to the Community of Andalusia recently. The productive sector is in a very complicated situation. The data of unemployment, which are always held by the Basque Government to try to sell us that right now Euskadi is different, because the truth is that neither are they sustained, because there are excluded people who are currently enjoying... or in this case they obtain the benefit of the ERTEs. Well, we also did not find there, let us say, the government's understanding of the difficulty of the situation. However, we have tabled a number of amendments. We do not table 30, we do not table 200, we do not table 300; we table up to 1,500 amendments. I thought, "Well, from 1,500 to maybe out of shame, kid, one of them admits us." Neither. Of the 1,500 amendments we have tabled, not a single amendment has been good for the groups that support the Government and the new majority, which is now this new majority together with the EH Bildu group. That has been the way in which budgets have been processed so far, in which, logically, it was already known that budgets were approved for the majority of the parties supporting the Government, but also to which the parliamentary group EH Bildu has finally joined. We could not do something similar because these budgets do not represent what the Basque Country needs at this time. From the legal point of view and on the imperative not only of article 134 of the Constitution or of article 44 of the Statute of Autonomy, but also of the budgetary regulations, of course, budgetary regulations that all the laws of Budgets end up with exception in practice in the Basque Country, but well, what is said is that the budget does not cease to be a mandate addressed to the Government, a mandate addressed to the Government, so that it does not go beyond expenditure or allocate public resources to destinations that are not those established by law, that is to say it has to be allocated to those provided for by law. That is why it seems to us a serious setback in democratic practices that this law, following also what has happened in previous budget years, includes so many exceptions to the application of Legislative Decree 1/2011 on credit transfers. What in practice, ladies and gentlemen, means that today, given the majorities that have been established, when this text of the Budget Act is adopted, what will be done in practice is to grant the Government a virtually blank delegation, so that it will then make a series of adjustments on the way without parliamentary control. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. They're going to hand them over today... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... to the Government, a virtually blank delegation, to then make a series of adjustments on the way forward without parliamentary control. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. They're going to hand them over to the government today, not the cash box, but the cash box and the key. I have no problem in giving some flexibility to the matter of credit transfers, because I understand that day-to-day management, because sometimes things come that we have not seen, although there is some Member who insists on warning the Economic Adviser through hundreds of questions. But, still, I can understand that, listen, for it has passed away; it has passed away to the advisor on duty. But, finally, I can understand, in that case, that some sort of adjustment should be made on the move. I can also understand that good practice is being used in this respect, which is, let me say, not to include as such, because the European funds that may be ours. But that is one thing, a bit of flexibility is one thing, and another very different is to hand over virtually a blank cheque to, not for nothing, ladies and gentlemen, because in this Parliament the majority is entirely in favour of the current government, but rather because this represents a setback in what is democratic practice and above all the practice of control by this Parliament. Moreover, the Budgets Act has been used. We are already copying; here it was said that we did not use or copy the techniques or bad habits of the Congress of Deputies. Well, nothing further from reality. Man, it has not been included, as in Madrid's Accompaniment Law, a clause to transfer the management of national clearance officers to the local entities to the Basque Country in the terms that the Basque Law itself says, that already..., but what has been done has been to include a reform of the Court of Auditors, just when we had passed the Court of Auditors Law. Man, I say we could have included that amendment in our own legislative process, which was that of the Court of Auditors Act. But, well, that's how the law is finally left. From an economic point of view, ladies and gentlemen, thirdly, we can say that these budgets are not drawn up on an appropriate basis: the so-called macroeconomic picture, the fundamental indicators of employment growth, the situation and the national and international situation. Nor are they adequate to face – I stress again – the challenges facing this society in the near future. And above all, the strengthening of our economy and the recovery of employment: that it catches us with the duties done. It's very necessary. The councillor knows this, he does not usually mention it in the debates, but he knows it, that an increasingly perfect storm is brewing; increasingly complicated it will be after managing. And that's why we need to get caught up in our duties. There are two possibilities: either a transformative budget of the economy is made, which really transforms the economy, and which really means that when this crisis comes the productive sector will find itself with the necessary weapons and in an appropriate situation, or what has been done can be done, which is to look elsewhere and make a continuous budget with what is usually done. They are not budgets to correct the usual problems either, as I will mention below, but they affect the same defects as the previous ones. And, by impacting on the same defects as the previous ones, they will end up making it even more difficult to get out of this situation. I shall briefly dwell on some of the issues I have commented on: look at the macroeconomic picture. We have an obsession with me having every month to see what the... well, I don't know... the authority to which it touches in that month to draw the data from growth, or the Basque government, which does it every quarter, etc. But, it's been told to this government, throughout this past year, that the predictions it makes are not that they are generous, it's that I think it's a bit fanciful. It is that every time the Basque Government establishes a growth forecast, we have already warned you that it is that all the main indicators, is that all the institutions that carry out these studies are telling you that man, is passing a little; at least two-three points in some cases. And I am no longer talking about the last corrections made to it by some institutions, the IMF before yesterday for Spain. It's just that the INE, this very morning, the press release it just released relatively recently, has already told us that we are growing less than Spain: 1.6% less than the rest of Spain in the third quarter. And I insist, this is not because you haven't been told. What's going on? For the Government needed to put in place very high growth data in order to establish the narrative. Because budgets, ladies and gentlemen, have no longer become a table of revenue and expenditure; they have become a narrative. So, the story is that the economy is going to be phenomenal, that it's going to get a lot, and that, therefore, there will be a lot of money to spend on public policies. Then we are already faced with the problems: it does not grow so much, inflation is triggered, the unemployment rate is getting worse, and then, on top of that, we have particular difficulties in finally being able to execute the budgets. But well, that's a problem next month or next quarter, as that one might say, isn't it? The macroeconomic picture is therefore out of date: a budget has been drawn up, a budget has been drawn up with data, at best, from August. The Government was warned, but in this case it ignored. Nor do I want to go too far in this area, but, another fact of the day, inflation. Inflation is very high; it is very high. Inflation is very high. Of course, what does high inflation mean? Man, for a government, at first, high inflation means it's going to increase revenue. Indeed, there is a small effect, which is the increase in short-term collection, especially because it creates a rise. Today it was the title of an economic newspaper of national circulation: it establishes, more or less, a covert rise in direct taxes of the IRPF. But of course, this is also temporary, isn't it?: purchasing power is also being reduced; if purchasing power is being reduced, the collection of indirect taxes is also being reduced. What I'm going to do is this is going to create a chain reaction, and the next episode – which we're already seeing – is going to be the renegotiation of collective agreements. It's obvious. If you have an inflation of six and a peak percent, because you want your salary, at least, to stay in the same amount because if you are not losing purchasing power. And what's going on here? For all the workers, including those of Euskadi, we are going to lose purchasing power, but to forced marches. Not to mention the drop in exports, etc. Finally, that in addition to the fact that there is an industry in Euskadi which has important figures for exports and intra-Community sales in the European Union, and that will be very much affected. I want to be honest too, and honest with all of you, and also fair with the Basque Government, with Mr Azpiazu. Many of these elements, or almost all of the elements that... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... I want to be honest too, and honest with all of you, and also fair with the Basque Government, with Mr Azpiazu. Many of these elements, or almost all of the elements that can affect inflation, are obviously not his fault. He usually recognizes it in debates. Man, we're not gonna blame Mr. Azpiazu too for inflation being so high... Yes, but we can hold you responsible for not taking the steps that are in your hands to try to correct those kinds of issues. We have lost the opportunity, with these budgets, to really correct, to really correct a number of issues and to establish a series of public policies, as I would say below, that they will actually achieve a paradigm shift and that they will prepare us to be a 21st century economy, because we are not at present, ladies and gentlemen. We have a very serious problem with budget implementation, a very serious problem with budget implementation. We have said it, and I have said it to the full, in this rostrum. I have said so much that, man, I believe that the Government has already done the last thing it has done is to amend the Court of Auditors Act a little bit as well, from behind, it has established that it is going to send the liquidations since 2009, since 2009, Mr Azpiazu. Screen. From 2009 to the Court of Auditors. All right, all right. I applaud this decision, but, man, I think it took a little while. From 2009 until now I think it's rained a little. It could have been done before. And, above all, I believe that here they have tried to anticipate the criticism that we were going to make from the opposition, at least me. But it is true that here he catches us, once again, on the march, as always happens. The other day, Mr Azpiazu, I was telling you here, in this rostrum, an inquiry which, man, I expect, will put as a star element of the budgets that there will be 1.6 billion, sorry, 1.605 million in investments, knowing that, more or less, we have reached 50% of the implementation. And then, Mr. Azpiazu, the rostrum goes up and says, "Mr. Gordillo, 50%, I'll buy it for you now." Of course, I stayed... Fortunately, it has a good communication team that, through quick press releases, ends up slightly countering the big news, big headline, with the lesser evil, in this case, that was, man, that we have about 1 billion in surpluses, which is a little less, because we are going to use in these budgets, we will see, but, finally, we are going to remove that that we are not able to execute even 50% of the investments. But, of course, that is serious, because if the Economics Councilor himself predicts that we are not going to reach 50%, man, I think this is already a complicated matter. It's a complicated matter. But it's not Mr. Azpiazu's fault again. It's just not his. The lack of implementation of the investments is not his department. He is one of the colleagues who sit on the Governing Council. It's from the comrades. That is why Mr Azpiazu should be sitting there, next to the lehendakari, to impose his authority a little bit and to force the rest of the councillors, above all, the companion who has to his left to execute and the colleague who has a little more to his right to execute, really, because they are departments that have problems with execution. Then there are budget trichinellas. You have an investment, instead of bidding, and so on, you use your own means. Of course, the means themselves facilitate (...) all that is the ordinary bidding. So, you directly award him a contract, and that's it. And you say, "Oh, no, I've already spent it. I've already executed him." When EJIE puts the computers, when the other means own, the other public company carries out the work... That's secondary already. But at least I've taken it off my tab. No, man, no. That's not how things are done. Therefore, because of this lack of budgetary execution I asked you to please establish a series of measures aimed at correcting this, because if not, the budgets are nothing more than a story, but of a story that could be a little bit in a story for adults, a story for children, is that we are already going to the story almost, almost science fiction, almost science fiction. There are a number of collectives that are the great forgotten. Now I'll make reference to one of them. But I do not forget the entrepreneurs, the self-employed. According to the Eustat, in a press release yesterday too, the truth is that Mr Azpiazu is not lucky with the timing on this occasion... He's usually quite lucky, but on this occasion he hasn't had much luck. According to Eurostat, at the beginning of 2021 1,400 companies were counted less than the previous year, 1,400 companies less than the previous year. Sure. And then what happens? Then we have help from the Madrid Government, and we are also unable to manage it. We returned half because we were unable to award them. Supposed funds are created to help entrepreneurs. And then they set up such lionish conditions that it's impossible. They say, "No, no, you go to Elkargi, for example..." You go as a company to Elkargi, and they say, "No, I'm not going. I'd rather go to the bank, because if I go here, they ask me to have money. Of course, I'm going there because I don't have any money." Indeed, of course. But it doesn't matter. In case, we are accumulating and we are enlarging a fund that we have out there, guarded, in case, and one day we will dedicate it to making strategic investments for Euskadi, which have not yet explained to us well what it means. There's the money. We'll see what we can do with that money. We'll see how you get into certain companies. We will see whether it is compatible with European aid, because this skips the exceptions, now that your equipment is listening to us, the State-derived exceptions to expenditure and investment and de minimis aid, with which we can have another problem. But, well, that, as he would say, is a problem for next year. And, therefore, as that one would say, today we are at something else. The only industry that concerns the government, and that this is an absolutely palpable thing, is the Basque industry. It's the Basque industry. That's the one that always goes well. That's the one who always has public subsidies. And that is what, with a series of economic measures and also with a series of measures to have, for example, Basque, practically, as a requirement rather than as a merit in many sectors of the public administration, makes it, above all, the industry that always goes well and that goes, especially, well and that resists very well periods of crisis. But, man, I believe that these budgets and that the situation we were experiencing required progress, because a government doesn't have to react. A good government, a government that is not exhausted, a government that is not that of "We'll go see", a real government what must do is to get ahead of these kinds of issues. Go on. Nor is it so difficult when they have macro data, when everyone is saying so, and especially when there are developed countries in Europe that are already taking such measures. That's why good management, I really don't see it anywhere. We come to the fourth or third point, in fact, that of the legal aspect, the economic aspect, and the third, which would be the political aspect. Every budget, ladies and gentlemen, is not just an economic forecast. I am often reminded of this by Mr Azpiazu in our debates. It says, "Man, the budget, Mr. Gordillo, is a foresight, foresight." It says so, moreover, foresight. But then, with the vision we'll see, hence the phrase "we'll see." But then we'll see... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ...prevision." It says so, moreover, foresight. But then, with the vision we'll see, hence the phrase "we'll see." But then we'll see and then we'll adapt it. So, well, every three months... You'd want me to do it every month, but I do it every three months. Man, I'd like you to be a little more right, especially since it fails every year in the same way, because I think it's already complicated not to be right in some things. But good. He said that a budget is not just an economic forecast of revenue and expenditure. It's just a lot more. Budgets are the economic expression of the figures of... in terms of a political project and the numericization of the efforts and sacrifices that we also demand and that citizens are required to finance the costs of public policies and collective needs. That's important. I mean, the budget is not just spending, as that minister, my partner, by the way, as a guild, that money is nobody's, we manage money that is nobody's. No, no. The taxpayer's money, of which the State and in this case the autonomous community is only a depositary and which has to manage as best as possible for the common good. But the budget is also a vision of the effort that we are asking citizens for from two points of view: firstly, from the point of view of the taxes that we are demanding from them, and above all the cost of opportunity or the decision by one government to favour one collective to the detriment of another, because obviously there is no money always for everyone. And what is the political project? Well, we don't know. This is being done a little backwards: First the new majority has been made with the EH Bildu group, which can anticipate a little... See where the shots are going, they've made up a majority. And now we'll see what the political project is going to be, the economic political project. We here are certainly concerned, because the measures that include these budgets at best are continuous and in some cases even regressive. The Basque Government, for example, is in practice raising taxes and preventing the reduction of tax pressure. Having such a powerful instrument in Euskadi, with so much... That would give us so much room for manoeuvre in this situation, as the Economic Concert may be, is being wasted. There are autonomous communities that have much less fiscal powers that are, however, increasing collection by lowering taxes. Screen, eh. But, hey, what do I know about this, huh? There are a number of elements, which I will not go into detail either, which are also included in the text on our amendment as a whole. But what has been seen here is that, logically, like any government, there is a collection voraciousness that is important. We've seen it with the Contributions Act. I am not going to go into the issue of the Law on Contributions, but we have also seen it, to the detriment of the parliaments and the municipalities. Man, there you can say, "No. In fact, that is to form a fund that we will then share." Well, yes, but in case we do it about income. Which is interesting. The Economic Concert, that bilaterality that is sought with the State is about spending; instead, the topic of contributions, if any, about income. It doesn't stop being interesting. That money left over from the Basque Government, which it seems until we arrived because we did not talk too much about it, is money, I insist, which belongs to everyone. It's money that's not producing any kind of performance. Unlike the debt we have requested, we have it at an average of about 1.48; it is being settled, it is not giving credit, but about 1.48. On the other hand, that money that we have there lashed because it is not producing any kind of performance. Figures are fired in many cases of current expenditure and investments remain unimplemented. What did we propose? Look, what we propose above all is to avoid expenses and reduce expenses on certain issues. Man, be here paying now, for it has been said before, representations abroad. For man, representations on the outside must be justified very much. Man, the Brussels Office, which, by the way, so much complain about competitive erosion, the Brussels Office was a ruling of the Constitutional Court, rapporteur Luis López Guerra, by the way, in which it was established that the autonomous communities, hear, can have representations perfectly in Brussels, that can have a justification. But man, set up now an external representation in Paris, with the money that that implies, or finance the euskaldunization in France, for man, continue to increase the ETB's shares, for man, the Lanbide issue also, which also has there very important items of expenditure, for man, I do not know. What we were proposing is to take advantage also, in order to avoid duplication, to harmonize, or above all to avoid those overlaps that have an annual cost. Patxi López's government has already established this in that famous report, which, by the way, has only been reneged on lately. And we would save a large amount of money. A large amount of money that we could reverse in the public sector. And we'd have to really reform the administration. But don't make cosmetic changes, as they are being claimed lately, with bills that by the way come almost from 2015. But, man, what we should do is really reform the administration. What alternative did we propose? We were proposing a major reallocation of funds, an interinstitutional agreement between the Basque Government, the deputies, including by linking the municipalities, so that there would be a tax reform that would reduce the tax burden on families and self-employed people and businesses. It is that here the Basque Government, the PNV and the Socialist Party have an idea, and that they manage better than the citizens. That is the only logical conclusion that derives from the situation in which we are, continuing to accumulate surpluses and refusing to lower fiscal pressure, think that they manage money better, that they manage money better than citizens. Well, man, I don't think this should be like this in any case or at all. But, as I said before, I am very afraid that Mr Azpiazu here also knows more than he can often tell us. And I think that he who is an intelligent person also sees that you can be forming an international crisis, which will affect Spain a lot too, because the crisis is already affecting Spain, in fact macro figures at least. And what I understand you're going to want to do in the future is get your chest out. No, no, look, Mr. Gordillo, how good you got us this. Man, of course, if you stop executing the 1.6 billion investment, more (...?) thousand and peak, more then what all societies have (...?) Public, so man, of course, you have for half the budget more. But it's not good management. That's just what this government's motto might be: "We'll see now," isn't it? "and we already manage better than the citizens, Mr. Gordillo, don't be heavy." That incorporation of the remnants we proposed, I insist, throughout the legislature, because we also understand that in a year it is impossible or may not be... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... "...Mr. Gordillo, don't be heavy." That incorporation of the remnants we proposed, I insist, throughout the legislature, because we also understand that in a year it is impossible or may not be a reasonable period of time to make all the reforms that we believe needed to be made. We also called for a commitment to budget implementation. It is better to set in the budget the actual amount that we have the capacity, or that the Government has the capacity to execute, than not to do the usual, which is to double, or triple in some cases, and then to be unable to execute it. I do not forget the great project: the project of the TAV, of the AVE, or what they want to call it, where here we have demonstrated or is demonstrating, not only the differences that exist between partners, which are also affecting what is the reality and the progress of the project, but we are demonstrating as an autonomous community... We are going to be the last – I believe – of the arrival of the AVE, right?... every time the issue comes up, the only thing that seems to worry government partners is the issue of management commissions to execute their part within the Basque Country; the one known as the Y. But the great work that is pending is the link with Burgos; that is the very great work that is pending. And that's something to do, too, isn't it? And, above all, I believe that here too we must establish burdens between all the administrations which have competence, and which also have funding, in order to be able to cover the costs that this very important infrastructure is going to entail. We were proposing amendments that have been rejected by all the parties present here, specifically for the underground, for example, in Vitoria and Bilbao, right? And above all, what we want is for an interinstitutional agreement to move this project forward. It wasn't possible either. The pending reforms of the EITB, the VATP and the... whose director, by the way, has resigned, because he sees that it is more attractive to present an opposition than to remain a high office of the government. Although, in practice, it depends on which party you're in, it turns out to be the same, but well... and Lanbide, the truth is, they're unreplaceable, right? We also established and proposed a plan to support families, and a modernization of social policies, with significant increases. Family support games have not only been reduced, but some have been seen... the execution it has had has been much lower than the one expected by the Government itself. We were also proposing what is being shown to be the priority of the Government, which is the strengthening of primary care, the acquisition of health equipment as well as the creation of specific items for recruitment and consolidation of staff at the service of Osakidetza. In short, reconcile work and family life as well. We have made a number of proposals, but they have all seemed, if not insufficient, because they have received all kinds of criticism from the groups of the Government. But instead, what we have found has been not only the closure of any of the 1,500 amendments we have proposed, but above all the lack of self-criticism, to realize that it is a missed opportunity; it is another. Every law that comes to Parliament is almost a missed opportunity. And this budget law is another missed opportunity. This is another missed opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, because it does not undertake the reforms, or does not establish the conditions to be able to undertake the reforms necessary to recover the economy and employment. In short, it is a budget that is not well calculated, we have no guarantee that it will be implemented, and it does not address the main challenges facing society. Therefore, you cannot receive the favourable vote from our group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u6	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Miss Hatage, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u7	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Well, atzo bildu ziren milaka langile, Osakidetzako milaka langile, hospitabletako eta osasun zentroetako ateetan, salatzeko, hain zuzen ere, egoera: Osakidetzan dagoen egora tamalgarria. The truth is that their demands are as reasonable as they are necessary: material, professional resources and, above all, a clear bet that primary care can be developed under acceptable quality levels. From this rostrum I would like to express my full solidarity with the workers of Osakidetza. It certainly does not seem to me that, after facing the worst consequences of this pandemic and supporting the health system on its back, they now have to fight precisely for their decent working conditions. I do not think it will be necessary to stress, given the critical situation we are going through, that collecting their labour demands is a necessary condition to guarantee the right to health of all Basque citizens. And it's just that the other side of this protest is on the other side of the phone, which is trying to... We're either of us... Trying to get people who need to, for example, have their doctor look at a lump that's come out of it. Or people who need medical prescription to relieve intense pain. People who have a chronic disease that is not being consulted. Or people who urgently need a medical discharge from depression, directly. But unfortunately, in these two years after the pandemic began, the right to health of Basques and Basques is not adequately guaranteed. Seven years ago, lehendakari, Mr Urkullu, in October 2014, approached the health workers who were concentrated in front of the Bizkaia Aretoa, and who denounced precisely the cuts. And he rebuked them: "Is this your usual job?". Well, the truth is that, on that occasion too, even if at that time it was not predicted or seen in that way, the people who were concentrated there were warning, were warning that if the Government did not bet decisively, did not bet decisively on our public health system, this system would not be able to respond to any tensions, and the consequences would be worse. This budgetary policy of disinvestment of understaffed, managerial, consolidated, has been consolidated since 2012, and what has done is that our health system is every year weaker. And with it too our health is becoming weaker and weaker. Unfortunately, this has not changed since the pandemic began. Patches, measures, some measures are offered, but then there are closures of points of continuous attention, cuts of services... You could have taken advantage of the relaxation of the frame... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... some measures, but then there are closures of continuous attention points, service cuts... The relaxation of the austere framework in Europe could have been used to invest more and better in health, or the framework of the State General Budgets also to increase staffing, to hire more health personnel permanently. And, unfortunately, it hasn't been done that way. This shows, it also seems to show that, contrary to what has been explained to us so many times, and that is that the austerid policies were imposed by the governments of Spain, certainly, it was not the same. And also the Basque Nationalist Party itself has been one of the main architects of such policies. I would like to repeat that in order to make it clear that a health system that is fully adjusted is not capable of responding to stress situations. And this makes it a weak health system. And it also makes our health weak. We did, in any case, a thorough and critical reading of the whole of the General Budget Act and also of the attached volumes. And we observed there some elements that, in our view, should not be accepted. They weren't good. They were elements that made it clear that these were budgets that were more concerned about budgetary balance than to save, for example, health: containment of expenditure by public administrations, harmful elements for the collective bargaining of Basque government workers, and there are other clear indicators that the only thing that really changed, through these budgets, in this sense, was the rhetoric of the government. In any case, however, and given the extremely serious circumstances in which we find ourselves and play it all, including the public health system itself, it is also at stake, we sit down to negotiate, because we felt that it was necessary, forced to recover the more than 4,000 health and health workers who arrived at the rescue of Osakidetza at the harshest moments of the pandemic and from which the Government had decided to dispense. No, we've said it on other occasions, they didn't come to appreciate it. They did not even assess this proposal. And they just called it unreal, unrealizable. Increasing the spending of Osakidetza's staff by 160 million euros in the face of the worst health crisis, since the so-called Spanish flu in 1918 is not, it was not unrealizable. It's necessary. Unfortunately, I believe that it has been shown not only that it is not unrealizable, but that it is of imperative necessity and absolutely urgent. It is in the light of the incidence and transmission rate we are suffering and the hospital income and the degree of occupation in ICU. The Basque Government must take decisions that were in line with the priorities of the citizenry. And I believe that, at the moment, the priority of our citizenship, our main concern is the safeguarding of public health. Over the past few weeks, the Government is still displacing responsibility for the spread of the virus in our citizens, in our individual behaviour. And we always say that, in addition to the responsibility of the citizenry, the Government has a great responsibility and that it is not acting, in our view, to the extent required by the circumstances. In this sense, I mean, it is not a receipt, it does not seem to us responsible that on 4 October, for example, 750 of the 800 trackers were fired. That's not responsible. More than as leaders of a government, they seem... It looks like the government is a multinational. I'd like to say something to EH Collect, too. I don't think you're quite right about the short term, I'd say, with this short-term tactical movement, because it's not the law of any budget. In the present situation, these budgets were especially to show a change in the government's direction, including public expense. And this wasn't the case. And I think by your attitude you show your consent to restrictives. And you may say that by a "cálcululo Elucoral" you neglect the defence of the people's rights. And this is not a good way. This budget, in short, consolidates the lack of investment in public health, high rates of temporaryity, the systematic overload of work, the shortage of human and material resources, the cuts in working conditions, the privatization of services and the inaction in the face of the collapse of primary care. This is what you're supporting. But it is also that this phenomenon that I am describing is also extendable to other areas of the administration. Areas that, for many years, have been eroding. The General Budget Act to be adopted here today is but another step in that direction. It implies the consolidation of a way of governing which goes against workers in the public sector, the administration as a whole, but which, above all, goes against, in the end, the rights of Basque citizens. If we talk about education, too, for example. This bill makes no effort to place public education at the centre of the education system and thereby ensure equality of opportunity and social cohesion. We believe that public education cannot be a simple slogan that all political parties use to stand up to the citizenry, because it is supposed to be what needs to be defended, which is the politically correct thing. For us to defend public education and bet on it as a backbone of the education system requires commitments. It requires that it be provided with sufficient resources to ensure that this right does not continue to be a source of segregation, taking into account the educational needs index, the economic conditions of the population and reversing the cuts over the past 10 years. That is why we also take to budget negotiation what we consider an ambitious proposal, with the aim of investing in infrastructure for public centres, to also guarantee the free education from 0 to 3 years, and, in the end, to... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... ambitious, with the aim of investing in infrastructure for public schools, to also ensure free education from 0 to 3 years, and, ultimately, to carry out a serious plan against school segregation and in favour of school inclusion. Another of our proposals in the framework of the negotiation was the creation of a public energy company. A public enterprise that allowed Basques and Basques to unplug themselves from the energy oligopoly and which in turn decidedly bet on renewables. We have recently read, with surprise, the unfavorable approach of the Government. But surprise not because the government was against it, that we could already expect it in some way, and, in fact, we have already seen Mr Urkullu accompany Galan to press in Madrid the limitation of the fallen benefits of heaven for Iberdrola and the rest of the great electrics; what has really surprised us, what has surprised us has been the fact that they seem to have read another bill and not the one we are presenting. Mr Zupiria stated, for example, that the EVE already fulfils this function. But it is in that our proposal of law the EVE does not disappear, the EVE remains. The new company we were proposing would be an entity affiliated to the EVE, in the same way that today they are affiliated to the EVE (YEMAB?) o the Euskadi Hydrocarbon Society. There seems to be no problem with a public gas company within the EVE, but it is seen as a problem that a public company exists to generate and market renewable energy citizens. Today we believe that the EVE only favours a few companies that centralize all power to generate and market energy. And here are the agreements with Iberdrola, Grupo Mondragon or the Hydrogen Alliance. And what we are wondering is where is the agreement to lower the price the light to the citizens of Euskadi. This Government has endeavoured to ridicule our proposal by saying that it is impossible to lower the price of light overnight. But it's just that we haven't said anything like that anywhere. We are fully aware that this is not possible. To what we aspire, and this law is an instrument for this, we aspire to move towards energy sovereignty, so that one day that could be possible. In fact, this would be easier if the Basque Government had planned a deployment of renewable energy in time years ago. But it wasn't done and now it's not done either. Why? And it is not because our proposal for a public energy company is unreal, but because we have the feeling that you act rather as representatives of the energy oligopoly. Let's talk about social policy. It is attributed to Thomas Reid, who is a Scottish philosopher, a phrase, a famous phrase, who says that "a chain is as strong as its weakest link". If we parallel this phrase, it would include another saying that "the value of a society is measured by the treatment it gives to the most vulnerable people." And I bring both dates up to make a little reflection on social policies, and I am referring in this case to those relating to social protection specifically. Not to that box of tailor that the Basque Government calls social policy, in which eight out of every ten euros appear to be destined, which are almost all the competences of this Government, but I am talking about those policies that involve the bulk of transfers to the citizenry with a redistributive purpose of wealth and which are the pillar of social protection policies. For us, that's not leaving anyone behind. We have said this repeatedly and I say it again so that it is clear and that citizens are aware of all the cuts that have been made in this area in this budget, because there have been cuts. Some data. There is a cut in the GIR of almost EUR 30 million, there is a cut of EUR 5 million in social emergency aid, there is a cut of almost half of the Covid Fund funds, there is a cut in social inclusion of EUR 28 million, there is a cut in social action of EUR 34 million, there is a cut in social services of more than EUR 2 million, there are cuts in aid to families for reconciliation and raising more than EUR 4 million, and, as a colophon, only 0.4 % of the budget goes to specific equality policies. They can make up, and they will, whatever these cuts are. But it's quite a statement of intent. We know that income-guarantee income is an expandable credit and that it is the number of recipients that determines this enlargement. What happens is that, given what we have seen, as always, we fear that it will be the restrictive interpretation of the requirements for access to this revenue guarantee, to these revenues, which will eventually reduce the provision of this right. And, in any case, the spirit of GIR is to end poverty in Euskadi, it is not a tool to resolve who has the right to live decently and who is relegated to social exclusion. Therefore, with the approval of the minimum vital income in the State we had the opportunity to broaden this right and to make it reach more people. And yet, why has the IMV been used here? Well, to save, to cut the game short. That is what has been done and not anything else. Furthermore, and one question we also ask ourselves, on the basis of what does the Basque Government assume that there will be fewer applicants for this benefit on this occasion? Because, in fact, and after the impact of COVID-19, the main indicators of AROPE, which is the main reference of poverty and social exclusion, the rate of risk of poverty, severe poverty and the poverty gap has increased. Not all of us get out of the crisis, not all of us get out the same way. Social gaps are increasing. The rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer. And these budgets have been significantly reduced... These budgets have significantly reduced existing social protection mechanisms. Unfortunately, these budgets are going to leave a lot of people behind... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... The existing social protection mechanisms have been significantly reduced. Unfortunately, these budgets are going to leave a lot of people behind. In conclusion, we need to open up horizons of future and hope. We need public employment to support and revitalize our public services. We need plans for economic, territorial and orderly development to achieve full employment and to order an economy that is chaotic and overly dependent on the outside. Budgets are the main tool to ensure public health, but also to ensure economic recovery based on equality and also to address an ecological transition that cannot wait any longer. Unfortunately, as I was already defending last week, this draft presented by the Basque Government and which will be adopted today with the favourable votes of the Nationalist Group, the Socialist Group and also of Euskal Herria Bildu, does not meet any of these requirements. The year 2022 is not going to be an easy year. And social discontent will continue to grow. Perhaps that is why budgetary increases are included in this budget, here in the security chapter. You see your way of acting and say you really think you don't need anyone. You've got all the answers. But it's not small what you've been through and not doing. And we all have to pay. And I'm not just talking about the pandemia. I mean, in fact, the reduction of public expenditures which you have spent at this length of ten periods. That's why, for all of this, our vote will be rejected today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Next, Mr Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u9	Good morning. Thank you, ma'am. Today's debate continues to be a formality, part of a script, of a plot that we already knew the end of, precisely, by the absolute majority that the parties that support the Government have. That's right, we've had a bonus track in the form of abstention, we still don't know if tactical or strategic, from Euskal Herria Bildu. We introduced our alternatives at the board the other day in a full-correction. We will never refuse partial conquests to the advantage of the majority from Podemos-Uruerda. But with these government and budgets, the terms are not met. First of all, the chief of the subalterns, who are appointed to choose a few projects from a list made. In a normal situation, we might even understand that, with an absolute majority, nothing would change. That the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party maintain the same script, where more and more money is transferred from public budgets to concessionary private companies that manage public funds, generating additional costs in the administration, in exchange for precarious and precarious jobs and working conditions for workers, or that they are unable, in the face of the greatest energy crisis in history, to promote renewable energy projects from the public to tackle this scandalous rise in prices. But today, almost in 2022, a year and nine months after the shock of the COVID-19, and once, fortunately and even temporarily, the sacrosanct rules of budgetary stability or of the so-called "budgetary stability" have been suspended, we do not understand the meaning of budgets that save money and stop investing in public policies and generate public employment. In these budgets, they still save incomes in important matters like incomes. And it hasn't been restored yet to guarantee the incomes on the reduction of that income. And there's no budget for public employment plans. And these budgets want to content themselves with the 10% rate of unemployment. Budgets which do not include structural plans against the scourge of labour disaster, which alone this year, as far as the year goes, has risen by 17% and which alone this year has taken more than 30 lives ahead in Euskadi. Only 4% of the entire budget is the result of beautiful equalitys. And besides, we have to look for the percentage of this means of facing violence to the Machista. That's a bet on the parsity of these budgets. Budgets that do not invest in strategic enterprises for Euskadi, so that the Basque Government participates in them. Yesterday a new piece of Euskaltel was lost with the transfer of its logistics center. Where is, Mrs Tapia, the famous root that Euskaltel was going to keep in Euskadi? Don't I? Budgets that do not address the main problem of the education system in Euskadi. School segregation, which is not only a title, school segregation has very different names and surnames. School segregation in Euskadi assumes that the sons and daughters of the most advantaged families leave with kilometers of advantage over the disadvantaged families to reach the same goal. That's school segregation in Euskadi. And, unfortunately, we are leaders in the Spanish state and the third in Europe. And the function of the public system is to turn this difference, not to set up generations. Budgets that, as my colleague Miren Gorrotxategi has said, are late for this sixth wave, to which we arrive with a totally overflowing staff of Osakidetza and which still gives, despite this, 200 % every day... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... sixth wave, to which we arrive with a totally overflowing Osakidetza template and which still gives, despite this, 200 % every day. Budgets that will be approved, without the maintenance of the 4,000 people from the Osakidetza reinforcement staff who had been hired for the covid, as we proposed, and we continue to propose, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita. And with a primary care that was already deteriorated, but now it is totally exhausted and lacking means. Budgets that do not address the need to increase capacity and funding to be able to make CRPs, and that people do not have to do pharmacies at the pharmacy, or have to pay for it from their private health pocket, Mrs Sagardui. Yesterday, the workers of Osakidetza shouted, at the doors of the outpatient clinics, that: "Before essential, now invisible". They also shouted that he had no hands for so much work, Mrs. Sagardui. And yesterday, Mrs Sagardui, too, this circular was distributed in the hospitals of Euskadi, and specifically, for example, in Basurto, (asking?) volunteers and volunteers; volunteer workers and volunteers to deal with PCRs, we can understand it, and vaccination. Wasn't vaccination planned? And why are volunteer staff being asked and no more workers hired, because more than 4,000 people have been fired? It is up to you, Mrs Sagardui, Mr Urkullu, to take care of us, who has been taking care of us for so long. It's up to us to strengthen Osakidetza. Listen to the street. It is also important to believe the famous Auzolan; the motto of his government. But that boom, where public services are strong, and that these public services are further strengthened by the work of the community, so that we are all equally free and equally strong. And not that boom that only a few benefit from. For all these reasons, and because we think that Euskadi, that the working people of Euskadi can have and deserve better budgets, we will vote instead of the same. Euskal heritar gehiengauren kontrako egindako aurrekontuei, guk ezetz esaten diegu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u10	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u11	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, egun on guztioi. We are faced with a budget still framed in a pandemic situation but, unlike the 2021 financial year, with a clear forecast of growth and economic recovery. And with new economic integrations from European funding for economic recovery and job creation in our country, as well as to boost the structural reforms we need to ensure that growth is sustainable and balanced, taking care of the sectors and people who need it most. Moreover, it is a budget that has managed to bring together high wills and majorities around it. As far as revenue is concerned, we have a progressive taxation policy that will require, at the time, the corresponding revision, the European funds linked to the Next Generation Recovery Plan and the indebtedness, whose reference rate is the agreement in the Joint Economic Concert Commission. These budgets therefore reflect the Government's commitment to pursue a budgetary policy, based on the rigorous use of public resources and the sustainability of public finances, seeking compliance with the deficit, 0.9 %, and debt, 15.6 % of GDP, agreed in the Joint Committee on Economic Concert. Therefore, also taking advantage of the flexibility given by the European Commission by exceptionally suspending tax rules, it allows us to maximise public investment and use all available resources, Mr Martínez. Resources coming from the good performance of the economy and the collection, an increase of 14% to November 2021, but also from the agreements reached in the Joint Committee on Economic Concert. In the expenditure chapter, these are budgets which, with their EUR 13,108 million, aim at the economic recovery of Euskadi, and one of its main axes is the proposal of more than EUR 1,6 billion for public investment, which represents a 50% increase in the investment chapter compared to the current budgets. Together with this great commitment to public investment, the budget for 2022 is characterised by its strong commitment to R & D, with a budget of EUR 588 million, EUR 52 million more than in 2021, and an increase of almost 10%. And it maintains its essence, by guaranteeing and improving social policies, corresponding to 77% of this project. Health is once again the department with the largest budget: about 4,352 million euros, which represents 168 million euros more than in 2021. Education remains one of the key drivers of budgets: by 2022 it will have €3,235 million, the highest budget we have ever had. Education continues to be strengthened from zero to three years, quota bonus policies and sections for families who need it most, and inclusion policies. There is a marked increase in the number of school eaters, and very concrete actions are envisaged in the area of school segregation, as well as the funding of the UPV, with investments in new infrastructures and in scientific policy, with a clear commitment to the training of research staff. The Department of Labour and Employment is the third largest, with €936.2 million. Its main objective is to continue working on the basis of the transformation of our employment and inclusion system. In the area of employment, the revision of the forecasts is hardly changing compared to September. The favourable trend in employment will reflect the unemployment rate, which will be 10% this year on an annual average, and will fall to 9.2% next year. As for the quality of the employment that is generated, it is still weak, due to high temporality and unintended partiality. And both issues are being addressed within the competence of the Social Dialogue Bureau that runs the Ministry of Labour, in order to achieve the agreement... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... Not wanted. And both issues are being addressed within the competence of the Social Dialogue Bureau headed by the Ministry of Labour, in order to reach agreement on a new labour framework. In our area of competence, the Basque Employment Strategy 2030 has been designed, with the participation of the social partners and this House. This strategy is the framework and road map that will guide all employment actions for almost a decade. Thus, within the workplace there is a clear commitment to training, especially in the high-demand sectors, with social consultation, also creating the Bureau of Self-Employment; with collective entrepreneurship, where the Coopera project stands out; with the wage gap, with initiatives such as the first Congress on Wages; with the inspection of work; with the reinforcement of the workforce and with the greater provision of material resources to facilitate visits to workplaces. And with health, with a budget increase and with new items, such as that dedicated to the research of the prevention of occupational risks, in order to flourish the occupational diseases and diseases of occupational origin that, nowadays, are not easy to detect or the creation of a Basque Observatory for the prevention of occupational risks. With regard to GIR, the improvement of employment and the economic impact of minimum living income, they adjust the planned budget allocation of EUR 345 million, which can be expanded if necessary. In turn, territorial planning, housing and transport has a budget that, without the Basque Y and the Southern Variant, represents a percentage increase of 14,5 % compared to 2021. And it addresses, from its various functional areas, the integral regeneration of disadvantaged neighbourhoods, promoting the Urban Agenda Euskadi Bultzatu 2050, the completion of the regulatory development of the Housing Act, with particular attention to the adoption of the decree of subjective housing law, to ensure an integral response to housing needs, with the promotion of affordable rent, the emancipation of young people and the increase of the ratio of rehabilitation of the residential park as priority axes. And also the interoperability of the existing travel documents in Euskadi in all means of public transport and the bidding of lines 4 and 5 of the Bilbao Metropolitan Railway, within the field of transport infrastructures, since the Basque Government has a firm commitment both to sustainable mobility and to prioritising investments in railways. And tourism, trade and consumption increases their budget to 52.1 million euros. These budgets provide for the recovery of trade, tourism and hospitality. By 2022 there is a projected spending capacity of more than 52 million, with contributions from European funds, which will allow the department's spending capacity up to 79.3 million euros. 46% of this spending capacity will be spent on investments, focusing this investment effort on tourism resources, areas of preference, sustainable tourism and competitive trade. All of this is based on responsible consumption. It is therefore clear how a public spending strategy, Mrs Gorrotxategi, has been put in place to get the best out of the health crisis and to do so with the most competitive pillars and with greater social cohesion, addressing the challenges of energy-ecological transformation, digital transformation and the need to strengthen the resilience of our welfare state. It is a budget that sets the foundations for reactivation and transformation. And, as my colleague Mrs Corcuera has already pointed out, they are consistent with the content of PCTI Euskadi 2030, with the Basque Country Framework for Internationalisation 2025, with the Basque Employment Strategy 2030, the Strategic Employment Plan 2021-2024, Strategic Energy Transition and Climate Change Plan 2021-2024, Strategic Plan for Circular Economy and Bioeconomy, VII Plan for Equality of Women and Men, Interinstitutional Entrepreneurship Plan 2021-2024, Energy Strategy of Euskadi 2030, Strategy against Climate Change 2050, Basque Country Strategy 4.0, Strategy for Digital Transformation of Euskadi 2050, Industrial Development Plan and Internationalisation 2021-2024, and therefore with the Euskadi Next European Funds program. All these plans aim at the economic recovery of Euskadi and the recovery of employment, being at the forefront of an economic and social recovery process, and facing the challenges of the three transitions. So, Mr Gordillo, it does capture the country's challenges that you have mentioned. The Basque Socialists believe that the efforts made by the Basque Government in budgetary negotiations have been important, offering improvements and new economic items in health, in people's care, in gender equality and violence, in education, housing, employment, industry, in the environment and energy efficiency, and in social protection and inclusion. Part of these improvements were realized in a trading offer worth 72 million euros to the group Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, with commitments in health, education, environment, housing and employment. Commitments such as strengthening Osakidetza, more resources for the implementation of the primary care strategy, more resources for the expansion of oral health services in collaboration with the Ministry of Health. Commitments with investments in educational establishments and bonuses for enrolments from zero to three years. Commitments to employment, encouraging mentoring programs in Lanbide, on training in new economic niches for unemployed people or new job inspection places. Commitments on social inclusion, on social aid for energy expenditure, on youth emancipation, on a policy of transition to new models of care, on equality for migrants and refugees, on social rent and on the boost of the Basque economy, with the activation of the €90 million in 2021 of the Energy Sustainability Fund for Basque municipalities. Commitments in housing, such as increase for the purchase of public housing for social rent, or introduce in the OCT fiscal measures for the containment of rental prices and propose a system of control of private rental prices... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... or to introduce in the OCT fiscal measures for the containment of rental prices and to introduce a system of control of private rental prices where permitted by state law. Your group, Mrs Gorrotxategi, has been excluded from these commitments and have preferred to table an amendment in its entirety, rejecting measures that the coalition itself had included in its proposals and which meant strengthening the policies and actions of the Basque Government envisaged in the Basque Budgets by 2022. Budgets that do not contain any cuts, no cuts, as has been explained in detail in the various committees we have already been going through and working on. In the view of the Socialists, 500 million amendments to a project of more than EUR 13 billion which is committed to the public, to social protection networks, to sustainable mobility, to proximity trade, to entrepreneurship, to secure employment, ultimately to everything that has put the pandemic at risk, represent no alternative project. And I think that the Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita group has missed a very valuable opportunity to have added, in such an important situation, as you say, to ensure the health of citizens, economic recovery and employment. That's why I think they've been ruled out. And they justify it by saying there are cuts. But they know that this is not true, nor is this kind of argument maintained today. That is why we welcome the agreement with EH Bildu, because these accounts will be backed by 80% of this House. With regard to the content of the agreement, the agreed measures had an impact on the line already being worked out, which was part of the very spirit of the Government Programme and the road map marked by the Executive. We are talking about measures to achieve decent and quality jobs, in a line that is being truncated in the department of vicelehendakari Idoia Mendia; regulating rental prices through, among other measures, such as fiscal measures, as already explored by the Department of Housing; strengthening primary care; increasing R & D spending; combating climate change or increasing protection items for people at risk of social exclusion. In short, measures and items that we value positively because it strengthens and improves the budget project that addresses the exit of the pandemic from a transformative perspective and fits with the spirit and mission of this Government. As far as the amendments tabled by the Basque People's Group are concerned, I do not deny that, 1,500, we have voted on them, but not in economic terms. Nor do they represent any project in itself alternative to the draft Budgets. And for the most part it should be mentioned that these are deletion or reallocation amendments. In fact, you, Mr Gordillo, have not mentioned them or explained them here today. But I am going to do it, I am going to do it with some of them, because they affect, as in other years, issues related to family policies, the public sector or employment. In family policies, the budget has been reoriented to address the new challenges, with specific programmes for children and adolescents, with new developments in the lines of support for the conciliation for leave and reduction of hours, for the care of persons with dependency or in a situation of extreme health severity, or assistance for the conciliation of workers for the care of children under 14 years of age, the decentralization of the family mediation service, the extension of the programme of support to single-parent families, the equalization of permits in single-parent living units and the Observatory for the Family and Children and Adolescents, among other measures. With regard to the public sector, mention should be made of the processing of the Basque Public Sector Bill, which establishes, inter alia, principles and standards common to its dimensioning and transformation, as well as to its functioning as a public service. It is proposed that the Interinstitutional Commission for the Rationalisation and Sizing of the Basque Public Sector be set up to study and formulate proposals for the treatment of possible inefficiencies, overlaps or duplications between the public sectors. And as for Lanbide's necessary and essential reform, the reform is under way, publicly presented in January, personally informed to the groups by the vice-lehendakari and approved by the Board of Directors in October after receiving their contributions. This reform is also reflected in innovative pilot projects, such as Morrokotudak, to incorporate women into masculinized sectors; AukerabeRRi, to rescue workers from businesses in crisis; or the unit of companies to bring Lanbide's services closer to businesses, as well as new youth and generational replacement programs. We can, however, conclude that the main thrust of these budgets is being guided. The increase of the budget in public policies, the more than 1.6 billion public investment, the firm commitment in R & D, the eight out of ten euros earmarked for social spending, the maintenance of the Covid Programme at 100% in health and education, and the unequivocal commitment of the gender perspective in these budgets. We are therefore pleased to have reached agreement, through dialogue and negotiation, with the main opposition group, EH Bildu, which further strengthens this budget project. And we regret once again that the rest of the opposition groups have rejected it, especially when we believe in their amendments that they have not submitted any alternative drafts. That's a missed opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. The representative of the EH Group, of the Kortah, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u13	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, to all good days. The clearest pointers of the instability and uncertainty of the moment we are probably living are those which have taken place during this small period of time during the course of the budget. The condition of health has made it worse. The economic predictions that M.M. had to work out the budget. It's a very uncertain... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... The economic predictions that M.M. had to work out the budget. It is a moment of extreme uncertainty, and things in the world change very quickly, but beyond it is already undeniable that in the next few years we will have to face deep changes. We have moved from a time of change to a time of change, marked by the convergence of various crises, in which the pandemic coexists with the acceleration of the problems associated with the climate crisis. We are faced with a serious "touch of attention" that warns us that neoliberalism is leading us to a point of no return, and that we are already at the edge of the abyss. Both pandemics and digital transitions will change the form of economy and life, or they would inevitably have to change them. And these changes must be based on social justice. It's a disorganized challenge that's on us. It's a challenge to make a fairer distribution than any other transitions. Our society, our people are getting more and more irritated, and more and more depressed. A few, while they accumulate the greatest fortune of all ages, the majority find it difficult to resist their everyday existence; the cracks are growing. It is inevitable that a new prosecution should be strengthened by public services, and that by a general ascent the revenues should be established a new balance. It's in this highly unusual situation that the budget's transmite has reached. We said, and it's clear that the budgets she's prepared for 2022 have structural deficiencies, and that they're not in extraordinary times, in order to give a proper answer to our savings as a people. In this unusual situation, though the Basque Country is far from picking up and having fun prospects, and the New Year's budget knows what "de facto" was accepted, the Basque Country has dealt with it with a lot of argument, the historical moment, the reading of what time calls for... where there had hitherto been no choice, by means of encouraging political discussions about matters which this people is indispensable to.... and this discussion over the mere budgets, which led beyond the discussion of economic games. Six political commitments, and six economic commitments, he put a political economic proposition on the wall, the Basque Country, in order to bring back the discussions of the main axis of transformation into the center, and to improve the response to the needs of the community. In order to improve the conditions of work and life, and to encourage public policy and direct our constant activity in the right direction, and to make our proposition based on common sense. And, though the signs that MUGHING at the beginning of the discussion were very different, though META had arrived at the whole majority's mental exercise, though it had built a whole relatto, some of the budgets that had been introduced as excellent have been improved by the contributions of the Basque People. We've argued, we've made common work, we've made an effort, and we've made a deal, and, as we've already known, the Basque Country will be overrun today for a significant improvement in the budgets that were accepted "de facto": the other, to the first care of the Osae, to study and development, to the transition and mygetic well-being, to look after the homeless, or to improve the resources of the young, by means of budget, by means of the population and its wants. To improve the conditions of life and labour in Pertson, considering that our abstinence does not alter the majority. It is time to have the preference clear, to defend and to risk the inevitable necessity of building vital lives, to be brave, and to find out how to improve the conditions of life as quantum as well as qualiti; this is an indispensable exercise of breaking the frame of what is possible. And that's what we've been trying to do, because that's the constant practice of the Basque People gathering. And there have been a great deal of political readings made about this agreement, but here, in this agreement, there are some that have been, and I would like to have an opportunity to take away what has been agreed upon, and not what has been agreed upon. In the section of political commitments, however limited it may be, the funk and the various aspects that protect it, EAJ and PSE, to break up and break up a large tab, and so take a step to adjust the minimum pay to our reality. In collective agreements at the center of their collective work and negotiations, you'll have to pay for the minimum wages associated with the US rent-that is to say, at least 20% more than the state would have to be at least 20% larger. A step to limit the present prevarication of structure, which might have gone beyond, but which has great powers, which opens the gates and requires a special development. In that case, we all have responsibility and opportunity: Because unions, corporations, cooperatives, social operatings, political parties, and, no, it's not fun to get this deal out of their way, because it's a projection and an engagement and a promotion to work. On our side, we mean the whole determination and initiative of determining the agreement and of leading it to the head. Even in the housing field, we've managed to move the elephant. And, consequently, in a place where the right of the housing is indispensable, we shall take another step, in order to limit the prices of private rents, and the door to the wall open. It is a goal, not an external frontier, to start our housing markets, ours, and ours, a series of adapted measures, which will be permanent and effective. And in addition to that, examining the new tax measures for preserving these rental prices. [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... that will be permanent and effective. And in addition to that, examining the new tax measures for preserving these rental prices. As I have said, the necessary measures, together with others, to normalize and generalize the means of rent. And especially for the young man's distraction. With the minimum wage, as I said, this agreement requires development. And that's what we're all engaged to, and especially about the side we're in and out here, they're going to need it. On the other hand, it is essential to invest in research and development with complete guarantees of the starting digital revolution, to work for democratic digitalization and an inclusive, to continue knowledge, and to adapt our production to transitions in this particular decade of industry. An important policy of research and development is that in any country that wants to be an advanced economy. But it is very difficult to place itself in the middle of political discussion, because it produces consequences of long-term consequences, and because it is hard to perceive the consequences of it in a clear and direct manner. That's why we're proud of making a deal of importance in this section. In the two remaining fiscal years of this legislature, the public budget devoted to R & D will be increased by 12% annually, a total of 150 million in two years, an unprecedented increase. In addition, for the first time, the Government sets the target of trying to achieve 3% investment by 2028, leaving behind diffuse or unambitious targets. The aim is to put our country at the forefront of science and research. For this reason, we may safely say that we are in the presence of the most important arrangement, driven into euscal investigations and developments, as far as the public investment is concerned, 150 million, purpose, and time are concerned, for 328 percent of the raw internal procedure. As for the economics, 30 million more will be planned on these budgets to reinforce the first attention and raise attention to the presence of the Basque People, the initiative of Collecting the Basque People. I dare say that every citizen who has tried to call or take a date will understand the importance of this game. So did the health professionals and everyone who participated in anti-movation against the dissolution of first-class attention for us yesterday. It's not a new story. The decay of the system is followed by a question of structure, but covida has out controled the situation, has increased it, and the situation, as the unions said yesterday, is intolerable. Against what was said at the beginning of the Pandemia, it does not seem that anything has been learned for the last two years. Sixthly, the seventh wave caught the system upside down, once more over-absorbed, with its first attention overrated and the tracking teams visibly narrowed. In our state, I don't know, but to say that you're doing everything right, that we have the necessary means, is to make ourselves absolutely out of reality. The first care and public health are suppressed. And probably a similar situation might have been intelligible at the beginning of the pandema, but now six, instead of using the covida in this seventh wave to strengthen and rearrange health structures, are worse. There's no way to get a presenceal query, no matter what with phone consultations. The health personnel are asked to cancel their holiday. In order to insert the volunteers, the operation delayed, the attention of the poor chronics was cancelled. The impossibility of reaching everything else but Covida. Osakidetza converted into an emergency and covid service. Dimmed and even dismantled structures. Incoherent and unconsolidated messages. And the confirmation that we have an anti-pandemic law that has never served anything, not even for you. Chaos. And in the meantime, a star in the outside of the world... to make a mask mandatory. That's a huge contribution. It doesn't make any sense to collect the Basque Country, it has been the privilege of strengthening the first care and public health throughout the pandemy. We are clear that if we face pandemia, and wish to attend to physical health, the first condition is to strengthen the attention, and improve the conditions of the professionals who work in need. One of our main priorities has also been to the budget circle. And we've been able to increase the investment clearly, 30 million more, to reinforce the first attentions, and to guarantee the presenceal queries. Because we're clear that the first time we're able to get our attention together, not the time for further reductions. And we hope that this agreement obtained to strengthen our first attention is the first step in the management of the legademary, and in general to adapt the member and public health to the new state, a lever. We hope that the investment of 30 million to strengthen primary care will be the beginning of a new path, a turning point. More than ever, as I said before, because the first time in health is the time for the supply of resources, for the defence of what is necessary for the building of life. During this period of climate emergency, we were already absorbed, it was essential for us to trace the ecological transition to the light signals and games. The proposal which we inserted in the Law of Epregetic patience will be set at once and in its full course. I mean, if you're gonna be able to make the town halls available, that's, like, 100 million euros. What for? In order to fund some of the small scale initiatives, re-inflicts, and encourage energy saving and efficiency, the initiative for destructing the emergency bill of municipals, in order to encourage hundreds of enterprises to support the climate. It is not the only achievement, for private people, and for corporations, the scholarships which lead the transition to that direction will be significant. 20 million more, thanks to this agreement. It is the number which unites the existing divisions, and the funds derived from Europe. So if we make a total sum, it'll be possible to jump into 2020... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... It is the number which unites the existing divisions, and the funds derived from Europe. So if we total it, it'll be possible to jump in 2020 to face climate emergency in ecological developments, separated from many actors. And it hasn't been accomplished, and this must be confessed, the study we were trying to force to create a public deputator of electricity. And for us, too, that's a shame. The agreement reached on energy well-being is, on the one hand, a conceptual achievement, because we move from talking about energy poverty to talking about energy well-being, and I think that is important. And on the other hand, it is a game that almost reverses the cuts in the ESAs to deal with the consequences of the theft of large energy companies, and of a charging system that has de facto turned energy bills into a real income transfer. In a necessary situation, in the presence of a necessary subsistence, if necessary. But every year, strengthening those contests of AES which are very short, it's important to give up the clips that's been set up by fun, and to give up the maximum amount of iced from 2017. It is an urgent measure that thousands of people respond to the situation they live in these days, and this is important to us. On the other hand, we've managed to raise a social selection and an inclusion match in 20 million, and we believe that in what they show that our last poverty data increases the most serious state of retirement, it's not an achievement to diminish. In this sense, the Basque Country for the Collector, is especially the Euscal strategy of the homeless, the agreement obtained for providing money; eight million years, in two years, to develop the furrows of the work we've taken in this strategy. It'll be eight million to offer unhomed residental alternatives to non-house services or municipal services or special programs on that road. And I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. The Basque strategy of homeless people is a well-directed but two fundamental problems: the first, that its implementation is voluntary, and the second, that it does not have an economic endowment for its development. That is why it is important to incorporate this into the budget, which will change the approach to the development of the strategy. He supposes a quantum leap, trying to get through words to action. And I dare say this is a step on the way to transform homeless public policies, and not a small one. And finally, a reading: Only 15th of the young EAEs, 16 and 29 years old, could be issued on the first semester of 2021. Hay que remontarese a 1998 para encontraar una rate in baj de handpación secun un studio del Consejo de la Juventud. The advice has been regarded by the young man as the one-personal indication of the preventive that he lives in an endemic manner. I dare say that there is also an indication of the gravity of the situation, and that it gives him the size of the new growth which has been directed to promote youth in the town by collecting the Basque People. A little game of two million, but a significant one that wants to open up the way to transform young cipation policies. It would be worth while to bring them to the center of the political agenda where they live, and to warn them that it's time to show courage and leadership in these policies. We'll have to start making other policies to encourage the show. Habá que hacer ballas, habra que testars nuves, because otherwise we're off. Despite these incorporations, this budget is still far from what this country needs to face the future with guarantees. We have not been able to correct the structural problems that it presents, we are not going to make the revolution with what we have achieved, nor are we going to make major changes. But we have succeeded in ensuring that the response that these budgets offer to certain areas is better than what was offered by the original government project, which was born approved. We have shown that official versions must not always be fully believed. Against what the chairman of the department said, we have shown that there was a margin of improvement in these budgets, and that it could obviously be improved by the budget given by the wants of the people. We've managed to change the scheme of the budgets of the majority, and we've managed to change this stylized scheme. Apart from economic games, we have brought to the center of the debates which this country is indispensable to: that of our own salary, of the system of limiting rents, of enquiry, and development... And in this sense, a line of work which had hitherto been entirely closed has been opened. They've broken up with that, too, or some mantras. We have succeeded in conducting a political discussion, from the close discussion of certain games. We've made a political exercise, and it's got some political commitments to the process of budgets, and this sets a strong precedent. We have achieved a series of commitments which, although in some cases they represent only a step, a small step that could have gone further if there had been another political will, have the potential to mark the direction of the path to go through in the future, and open doors that remained closed to call and chant so far. In so many other basic parts, fun won't make any significant steps: To think of the policy of tax affairs upon the prosecutor's debates, to make a public audience of what has passed in the palaces of the old, to promote the direct measures, to raise the attention of the received sector to the promotion of the eucalyptic and euphora, to develop the policy of the administration, the advice of the profession, the co-operative administration, to give up the reality of this country... It was not possible to negotiate these budgets, it's a loss of choice. We're losing our options as a country, facing states and making effective public policies. There's been a lot of cabals in these weeks about the deal they made back of these budgets. And we'll see what it looks like, right? After many years, with a great deal of difficulty, this government, EAJ and PSE, may have begun to understand the real necessities of this people, and how they must arrive. [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... This government, EAJ and PSE, may perhaps have begun to understand what are the proper necessities of this people, and how they ought to arrive at them. Perhaps he begins to understand that this people is asking for political dialogue and minimum extensive agreements. The exact Diagnostics, the arranged projects, the large agreements, the whole of the agents, the intelligence and the political ability to activate, the new modes of politics, a new model of leadership and government... I mean, that's the way, the Basque Country, as Bila has insisted on for many years. It's not the time to let you lose your chances. This would have to be an effort to make specific suggestions and an effort to get together by the prospects. We are running out of time, and if we do not take this road, the wave of the future will not only pass over this government, but also to this people. But we'll see, we'll see if the government, the PNV and the Socialist Party really start to see that that's the right way or if we're facing an anecdote, a flash we mentioned the other day. We'll see if there's a change in dynamics, if you've learned anything. We will see whether the government is able to overcome soliloquy dynamics, such as that it maintains in the management of the pandemic or European funds. We'll see if the path you choose is really by the auzolan or follows the line of the auzolana I sell that to me I don't have. And as has been seen in the processing of Tapia law, the way remains another, that of imposition. For Euskal Herria Bildu, as for many other agents, these budgets are still insufficient. They were before we reached an agreement to abstain from them, and they remain so afterwards. But we have decided not to remain in mere criticism. We have decided to try to improve what was in our hands for three fundamental reasons. First of all, because we live in complex times, in transformations, insecurities and also in pandemic times. In this context, we must give an opportunity to seek agreements that give solutions and security to people and defend the essential. Secondly, because through dialogue with governments we have seen the possibility of reaching interesting agreements on key issues that we have already broken down. And finally, because although we have not reached agreement on issues such as taxation, care, the Basque communicative system and the cooperative world, the exercise of political debate that has surrounded budgetary negotiations has focused and given these matters the centrality they deserve. The question, therefore, is this: In this unusual state, the dialectic of desire is productive or not? Is it possible to add the elements that have improved the lives of the people in certain budgets that will advance or not? Is it possible to use the opportunity to open the doors which will allow the social equality of information in the budget to increase or not? Is it especially possible that in our modern context we should not negotiate, in order not to improve the conditions of life? Nay, when this is done without being rejected by our principles and principles. Custom situations require extraordinary answers, and the breach of what is possible requires courage, political courage. This deal is intended to show whether it will serve to modify public policies in the direction of historical cycles. Time will show you that. We don't believe in the deal for the deal. Euskal Herria Bildu comes to terms whenever they mean to improve people's lives. The Community of the Basque People, in its uncertainty, has clearly the privilege of building vital lives, and it has behaved boldly and acts boldly, encouraging the mutual agreements of the people's conditions of life. Now, this government will have us on it. We're going to be very interested in everything he's done. And of course, in order that the agreement which we have obtained may be fulfilled, it is as important to fulfil the agreement as it is to attain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. Today is one of those days when one feels proud of the work done, proud to exercise a policy at the service of all citizens. A policy with capitals, a useful policy, that goes away from acronyms and particular interests and that puts people ahead of everything, people at the center of all policies. I feel proud. This party is proud, first of all, of the efforts of the entire Government, of all its departments, to present ambitious budgets, very important investors in terms of the amount, but above all for the correctness of their destiny. Because we all know we're talking about our domestic economy. Spending is easy when you have it. But we have to spend well, not waste, take care of priorities, and that is already more complicated. We're talking about good management. And that is why we want to thank the whole Basque Government team for ensuring that these figures have a clear social orientation and objectives associated with the well-being of the population as a whole and especially those groups that are experiencing the worst. Because we must have resources, yes, it is important, and especially at the time when we are living, but we must know how to use them, use them well, from effectiveness and efficiency. We have (...?) have clear objectives, which are: recovery, transformation, progress, public services, social protection, well-being. All this is what is hidden behind a figure, behind 13,108 million euros. What concerns citizens is that these public resources are used to improve their living conditions. And I am convinced that this government has been right in analysing and seeking solutions to people's problems. So yes, today is a day to congratulate the Executive and to congratulate the entire Basque society for approving the budgets of the Euskadi revival. We are faced with excellent news. And if I applaud the Government's work in drawing up these accounts that will see the light today, I would also like to highlight its will for a pact. Even though I'm not... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... That's great news. And if I applaud the Government's work in drawing up these accounts that will see the light today, I would also like to highlight its will for a pact. Even though no group's support for these budgets is necessary, because the numbers give us, this government and the formations we support it have known how to be flexible. We have shown, from the zero minute, the sincere willingness to add. And it's done. It's parked what separates us. And what was good for Euskadi has been incorporated. We have seen that it has been a sincere exercise of dialogue and understanding, with positive results, because if these accounts were good, they are now more good. It is the most powerful tool we have to emerge strengthened from this crisis, to grow, to move forward and not leave anyone behind. This time the deal was with EH Bildu, because the rest did not seek approximation. But other years we have negotiated and agreed with Elkarrekin Podemos and also with the People's Party. We haven't moved. We've been in the usual position to build bridges and seek the pact. You see, Madame Kortja's elephant you say hasn't moved. We've always been on our way to the agreement. You, you've changed that dynamic, and you've done it bravely. You've seen now that collaboration is always better. We and we have always said that wealth is in the sum, that by adding we improve, because society demands it and because it is our duty, our responsibility, because we believe in dialogue and practice it, because we believe in the policy of agreement as a transformative element of society. And we would have wanted a greater consensus, yes, but only Bildu has been able to take this step forward. Our hand is still extended to the rest of the groups that today do not support this budget. And so we have expressed it to him in different forums. We'll be ready to make a deal here, ready to add, as we'll always be in favor of our society, our citizens, and the Basques, whose budgets are an important way of doing this. Because strengthening health, education, equality or digitalisation is not the case for 62 parliamentarians. It is a matter of the 75 that we are sitting here and representing the whole of society, that society that asks us to move away from the rift, from the frenzy, from the banner policy. And embrace dialogue and the covenant, without fears, with courage and thinking of the common good. That's why they chose us. To work on projects, strategies and plans that will make us move forward and develop. If you want, as we have seen this year, and in precedents with the rest of the formations, you can. And, as I said before, we don't need it. We have an absolute majority. But we've made the effort. And a real and sincere effort has been made. Mr. President and your staff, Mr. President and Sub-Azus, have once again shown the capacity and integrity of many of you to make an agreement with them. They reaffirm their position: the agreement, the agreement. Because you, this government, have always had a goal above all else: Euskadi and its citizens. And I hope that other political groups will join this path and that the agreements that we have reached today will not be temporary, but permanent changes, and will not be purely tactical, because it is Euskadi who wins. Every political group in this House knows what has contributed to this country throughout its history. That the Basque Nationalist Party has been a lot. Some of them now seem to be modern Norwegian Social Democraticians, but they've had a lot of turbulence. Therefore, I say, and I have told you once more that in some previous discussions, the taking of the earth is very important, and that this method which you have taken for the treaty is very positive. So be happy. Back we are going to leave a complicated, hard year, though with some lights, which tell us that the recovery has already begun in Euskadi. This year we're going to grow by 5.6%. 13,400 people will find jobs. Next year we will grow 6.7%, and 11,500 more people will have a job. The unemployment rate will be 9,2 %, which was the target for the entire legislature. But we have work to do. It is up to us to help companies with difficulties, those who have not recovered their jobs, and those who do not have a decent or stable job. Employment yes, but quality, direct, with good working conditions, and competitive. Modern employment, which concerns the environment and society, the environment. We're growing up now. And we want to keep doing it. New opportunities must be created. And you have to be with the worst people who are going through it: long-term unemployed, women, young people... We assume this responsibility. And these budgets will be key to that. We will leave 2021, and we will enter 2022, an exercise that will not be easy and will be surrounded by uncertainties. The pandemic continues and the problems we face are many. Problems in the homes of many families, in jobs, in businesses, which will help them. As a recent example the guarantees of 35 million approved by the Basque Government for financing lines for SMEs and self-employed people, the extension to 7.1 million euros of Euskadi Bono Denda, the increase of 3 % of the RGI and the supplementary provision of housing housing provided for these budgets. No cuts, Mrs Gorrotxategi, because it is a subjective right. Social emergency aid, with an increase of 40%, to also combat energy poverty. Health, with 4,352 million euros, an increase in Osakidetza of 114 million to reach 3,362 million euros. Problems that we will overcome, as we have done on other occasions, with the work of all, and with the involvement of the institutions. And, from today, with powerful budgets to combat this pandemic, and to enable the social and economic revival of Euskadi. Today we will say yes to budgets for the future of Euskadi, to transform Euskadi. To this end, these budgets must be, and are, human budgets, focused on meeting the needs of the population, focusing on health, education and the protection of people who, economically, are experiencing the worst. More than 3 billion for education, more than 4 billion for health. Almost eight out of every 10 euros go to social policies. And, he said, budgets that put people at the centre of politics. He who guards and protects people, with a strong effort in the Osarides and Health Department, with the rise of %n. And these budgets, with these promotions, make the contractions of professionals made possible in the Osata, as well as those made in material and undergrowth. He's the ones who've been reviewed again today. But look, I'll give you some facts. All 2021 years old, Osalan has worked 4,000 employees over a month, in comparison with 2019. Working over 41.500 professionals until we get to almost 45,000 in August. And as I said last week, and as the chief physician repeated it, more than a thousand professionals have been hired in this sixth wave. I'll remind you, too, with the 2018-19 OPE, 3535 plates, which have been called to strengthen attention in the First Step, 322 Family Medical, and 62 Pediatrian. This OPE will give a chance to fix the templates and... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... With 3.535 plates, which have been called in order to strengthen the attention of the First Step, 322 Family in Medical and 62 Pediatrian. This OPE will give the opportunity to fix the planets and give them more stability in the whole health system. The per capita expenditure on health, 1,984 euros, together with Navarra the largest in the state. Mrs Gorrotxategi, if you see it insufficient, you are making a good self-criticism. As you can see, the Osakidetza Department of Health, when necessary, has hired what has been needed. Because the recruitment policy has always been responsive to the needs of every moment, in order to reconcile the best service with the sustainability of the health system. And, as the counsellor has said, she will continue to hire as far as there are needs and availability of health profiles, with a defined protocol, which has even been awarded. Therefore, if there is need and there are professionals, Osakidetza hires them. Because the goal of this government, and of our party, has always been to maintain and strengthen a public health system, universal, free and of quality. Yesterday we saw this bet for public health, at the inauguration of the new General Services building of the University Hospital of Araba. Modern facilities, in which EUR 104 million have been invested, will strengthen the health care of more than 200,000 people in this territory. Improvements for patients, as well as for professionals. This is the constant work of this Government: new facilities and new equipment to improve the health of all of us. That is so, without hiding at any time the difficulties faced by this Department: the tiredness of the workers, because they have given it all. And from here our thanks. But doing so humbly, and knowing that there is no absolute certainty in this pandemic. That, in view of this approach and this reality, I am saddened to see the opposition of certain groups. Also those who support this budget today, supporting speeches that spread the dismantling of primary care, when you know that this government and these budgets have a clear goal: to care for and protect people with quality care, when it is valued by citizens. 67% rated Osakidetza's attention as good or very good, compared to 7% as bad or very bad; an average score of 7.5. And if this quality care can be given thanks to its professionals, the management of the Department of Health and also to this budget, endorsed by a large majority and which has also increased as a result of the agreement, by 30 million euros, to precisely that: strengthen primary care. We would all be better off if efforts were made to insist on vaccination, the proper use of the mask and to comply with preventive measures. Because I am sure that this would make primary care less tense, but of course, they prefer to put pressure on society, and to continue to do, unfortunately, politics with this. Podemos has also added to this criticism of the first care of health services. But it's hard for me to understand how Podemos hasn't got the first 30 million recapitulations that have been approved by the EH. What is it that follows? To us, EAJ, you have the strategy of not giving anything. And the committee of partial corrections was extremely conspicuous to see it. You said no to all EAJ's corrections. The EH Collection Corrections were also protected by EAJ, but you protected all PP's corrections. But have you read the PP's corrections to protect you? I'll give you some very important examples: Abspentation. The PP proposes to reduce the heading for action plans to support equality in the Department of Safety and Security, when you put the opposite in your amendments. We can abstain in this PP amendment, but they reject the EUR 4 million increase in social emergency aid agreed with EH Bildu. The PP proposes to create a training fund for Ertzaintza, but discounting the salaries of the agents; We can also abstain in this amendment. Do you want to tell me that you agree that training is paid for by the public employees themselves? Do you agree with the elimination, for example, in Governance, of the items of psychosocial support for employees? Does it support the reduction in the allocations for the promotion of Basque? By the way, question that the PP eliminates here but then in the Senate supports through an amendment of another party with the sole objective (acquire?) processes of certainly ridiculous form. Support Can we eliminate the budget to strategic plans for inclusive school? Does it support the 8% increase in coordinated network education? I don't know how this fits with your slogan of inclusion and the vertebrate axis of the public school that you just commented on. Because, Mrs Gorrotxategi, all this has been supported by your abstention, and not by our budgets. And to the amendments agreed with EH Bildu to strengthen primary care, to increase social emergency aid, departures for young people, R & D & I, to which we have said no. We are very clear that our vote on these amendments is a "non-routine". And it won't change by strategy, because we're a party with clear ideals and values. But you are not being responsible or consistent with your ideology; I certainly see you bewildered. And all for his fear of agreeing with the Basque Nationalist Party, this government. And that fear is reflected in many ways, huh? And more so when we have to move from ideas to facts and implement concrete projects. The various groups in this House, while the objectives are maintained in terms of the diffuse, because there does not seem to be any greater problem, does it? So, they're in favor of renewables, but not wind farms. They are in favour of the circular economy, but not of waste treatment plants. They're in favor of the trains, but not what's being done here. I say here, because your government in Madrid, Mrs Gorrotxategi, has just inaugurated the arrival in Galicia. In fact, as soon as the need to implement certain projects becomes clear, they are, without exception, against it. Meanwhile, life goes on, people vote and choose their representatives. And those who have gained confidence in society are those who assume the responsibility and discomfort, in some cases, of having to pose real problems real solutions. Just as not very popular, but effective, even if it means having to endure meaningless exaggerations or very manic disqualifications, as we have heard today. They are good in the strategy of criticizing but without providing solutions, because of course, for this we must already get wet. And getting wet is about betting and risking, and that's where your fears come back. He said, and returning to the destination of budgets, that these budgets are human, personsonak jartzen dituela erdigunean. Osakidetzaz hitz egin dut; aurrekontu hauen ikuspegi sozialaz era. But they are also budgets designed in terms of investment; of public investment, doubling the budget compared to 2021. And reaching a record figure: 1.6 billion euros. Is this, Mrs Gorrotxategi, an austere budget, when EUR 1.6 billion is invested for public investment? 1.6 billion? Is that your conception, your definition of austerity? Investment as an engine of the economy, and a generator of wealth. Investment to reactivate the economy and employment, but also health, education, social cohesion, equality, digitalisation, industry or the most disadvantaged areas. Gender perspective, which I remind you of, Mr. Martinez... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... the economy and employment, but also health, education, social cohesion, equality, digitalisation, industry or the most disadvantaged areas. Gender perspective, which I remind you, Mr Martínez Zatón, in public policies is 16.5 %. Therefore, social budgets, investors and, as a third key, budgets based on research, development and innovation. If anything has taught us this harsh pandemic is that investment in science and technology, R & D as an engine of economic growth and as a fundamental factor for the competitiveness of our companies is vital. Since this finding, the increase of 10% in R & D for next year and 12% in successive years, above the 6% fixed in the Government Programme. A government, therefore, committed. An occupied Government concerned about quality employment. And I am not going to repeat what the Socialist spokesman has already commented on with the Basque Employment Strategy, the Berpiztu Plan. But I would like to mention the effort that this Government is making in terms of the consolidation of jobs, providing stability and, therefore, quality also in public employment. And to show a button: The job offer of 4,000 places by 2021 and to start in 2022 the stabilization processes that exceed 1,400 places, response to the employment stabilization policies with a firm commitment of the Basque Government for the reduction of the temporality. Budget that will have the necessary fiscal resources to be able to implement all its programmes. And I insist, and I say this to Mr Gordillo, and in response to what you have also written recently in an article, it is thanks to our self-government and the Economic Concert, because we will continue to fight an Economic Concert and a self-government, which I remind you and I insist, without privileges and without... but taking risks, unilateral risks. It is curious that you stand and stand in favour of the Economic Concert when today the amendment of the Economic Concert is being voted in Congress and you are voting against Citizens, your coalition. Do not say the inconsistencies that are manifested in the Basque Nationalist Party, because this is a clear inconsistency. Resources that not only through the fiscal channel, but will be complemented by European funds, which will come, because the work that this government has done in the elaboration of the Euskadi Next programme, with the quality of the projects presented, deserves it. And in this context, and I will not go any further, Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita and the People's Party-Citizens are saying no to this budget. A budget to strengthen public services and protection of people, improve educational excellence, support the gender approach, ensure quality and universal public health. They say no to new opportunities to boost employment, transform the economy from sustainability, support those who suffer most. It is not a no to this Government, it is a no to Basque society and its options for progress and progress. They say today, they are presented to this debate with an empty folder. Because, Mr Gordillo, by tabling 1,500 amendments, when half are about 500, 600, 100 euros on a budget of EUR 13 billion and the other items are to eliminate Basque, allocations to EITB and delegations, is not to propose an alternative that fits exactly with our model. They are criticizing, for example, We can the opacity of this government with European funds, when it is United We can reject in Madrid a motion submitted by the Basque Nationalist Party for its Executive to account for the progress of the plan. These are his great contributions, zero. And that's not what society expects of us and us. And the PP thing. We're in another league. Go on with your party calculations. I read this weekend two interviews, Mr Iturgaiz and Mrs Muriel, in which your only proposal is to take advantage of the gap left by the PNV when you go left. I don't know how we do it, but we're always spinning, spinning. But you know, Mr Gordillo, we adapt to the needs of people and we offer them solutions to their problems. You, on the other hand, give me the feeling that you are putting all your efforts into placing yourself on the political board, but you will not succeed until you offer a proposal and a real and serious alternative to this country. If they were sensible and sensible, Mrs Muriel's words, they would not be in the criticism continues, in the no for the no. They would be negotiating this budget. They'd be contributing. But, unfortunately, they have a speech that is the faithful reflection of their position here today before these budgets and the one we are accustomed to in other homes. And that's not exactly what Euskadi needs and values. Yesterday he read 65% of the citizens that the political situation in the Basque Country is good or very good; instead, only 28% that the situation in Spain is good or very good. I think I should give them some thought. Our society, Basque society, is a mature, very mature society, and what it values is the agreement and does not want confrontation or political friction, it wants good public policies that transform society. And there are these budgets. We have before us the best accounts to get out of this crisis and strengthen the state of well-being. We are in this House to agree, to seek the best for this society, to respond to citizens. And today you will leave empty-handed, with nothing to offer beyond your hollow speeches. Proposals, none. Disqualifications, all you can. But fortunately, in this country, despite all the difficulties we are going through, things are doing reasonably well, with settled social models and with political and institutional stability. I want to think that we all want the best, we want the end of the pandemic, the recovery of the economy, health, work and social justice. We want the same things in the background. Therefore, I hope you will change your course with your political action, as EH Bildu has done by changing your strategy, and work for the common good. This project deserved to be taken into consideration by the rest of the parliamentary groups, for its value and for the contribution they will make to Basque society. That has not been the case and we regret it. Despite this, there are 13 of 75, Podemos, PP-Citizens and Vox. So, Mr Martínez Zatón, 80% of this Parliament would be very wrong to draw up budgets that go against the social majority, when this budget only rejects 20% of citizens' representatives. I invite you to take a step forward in other exercises, because these doors, those of Euzko Alderdi Jeltzalea-Vasco Nationalist Party and those of this Government, will remain, as always, open. To-day we would like to deliver a hopeful message to society: We have a highly intentional budget, and the deal is possible and positive. We must always try to make proposals of seriousness and sincerity. That's what we have to do to transform our people, work and work together. And this is the style of our party, of our Eucobertians, and of this government. We know that 2022 years will be difficult, that pandemia will remain between us, and that we will have consequences in our homes, work, and business. But today, by accepting these budgets, it takes a good step, in a good direction. We've got the best priors to get out of this crisis and strengthen our public services... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... By accepting these budgets, it takes a good step, in a good direction. We have the best means to get out of this crisis and strengthen our public services by placing men in the centre, and always in the intention of improving their conditions of life, which are accounts for the future of the Basques. We take budgets that are good for the Basque Society today. Today is the day of praise, the day of happiness, the celebration, the hope that we will make more groups in the next few years. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. We'll take the answers turn. Miss, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to you all again. In the middle of the sixth wave of COVID-19 contagions, we are minutes away from the adoption of budgets that, for starters, practically regard the pandemic as an evil of the past. They contain a significant reduction in funding to meet the needs arising from the health crisis. Meanwhile, on the street there are cancellations of events, of all kinds of reservations; while, there is an increase in insecurity in the citizenry and, even more, among entrepreneurs, sectors such as hospitality, catering, night entertainment, tourism in general. But well, that's right, they sell that no one will stay behind. We live in a dramatic situation of absolute disgovernment. There's talk of co-governance and we don't even have governance. There is not a single country that has been committed to regionalizing crisis management, nor one. A disappeared president who appears to make propaganda of nothingness and autonomous presidents who renew themselves in their chairs in the face of the lack of leadership and its limitations to command, with patalettes included, that encourage distrust. And these budgets that are going to be adopted today with the very significant abstention of EH Bildu are more national government. These are Basque budgets, more distance to Spain, more difference, more Basque, more Basque nation and less Spain. And it is at a time when we also need more country, we need to row all in the same direction, regain control of our nation. Even Mr Lehendakari, Mr Urkullu, seems to have seen it, going from his commitment to autonomy in managing the crisis to demanding common actions throughout the national territory. In times like those we live in, we need courageous leaders, committed to doing what is to be done and not just what is right to keep votes and status. I insist on what I said in my first speech: We do not need Basque national construction, but a recovery of national unity. The management of the pandemic is proof of this, a demonstration of the sound limitations of the state of autonomy, is a failure, in which these budgets also insist. This country does not need sectarian public television, nor does it need Ararteko to do the same as the Ombudsman does, nor does it need an institute of memorylessness, nor does it need to insist on a discriminatory and failed language policy. It does not need to waste millions and millions in politics arising from imposed globalist agendas. Nor in the international promotion of a country that does not exist. We do not need more distance, but the opposite: collaboration and cooperation with our neighbours cantabres, riojanos, navarros, Andalusians, Galicians. We need to pool efforts and focus capacities for a common good. Finally, budgets supported by its new partner: EH Bildu. That is something that also widens our infinite distance from these budgets. And you know, gentlemen of the government, that this is a poisoned apple; a poisoned apple that will have consequences in the future not only for you, but for all Basque citizens. Mrs Berrojalbiz, I say to you that the fault that the health pressure is as it is is not the fault of the citizens because they do not meet the standards of wearing the mask well. I promise you I won't. Moreover, after hearing your speech, I believe that the budgets that have been passed on to us to the opposition are totally different from those that you have. You'd have to look at what a difference there has been. And I don't want to end up without that Christmas spirit that imprisons us, saying that Vox wouldn't ask the Magi for these budgets. But on the date we are going to end up wishing all of you as well as Basque citizenship a very happy Christmas.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u18	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u19	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, the debate has been very interesting because it has become a little bit of what it is: the government opposing the opposition; rather than defending its project a little bit, criticizing the others. But well, let's do a little review too. I was very interested in all the criticisms that Mrs Pérez had also made. I was surprised that you've been with almost more of Podemos' parliamentary colleague than with me. But well, he's also devoted me to a few words. The challenges of country and so on. Joe, it's just to me these expressions: country challenges, country agreements... Of course, it was the state pacts and now they say country challenges or country agreements. I'm kicked by the Castilian... But, of course, if you've already admitted "cocrets" to the Royal Academy, anything. But, speaking a little bit more seriously, the truth is that these expressions allude more to feeling than to reason, which is a little bit what happens to them, isn't it? You mentioned a lot of plans. And then between you and Mrs Berrojalbiz I was criticized on the subject of the amendments, 1,500, which it seems that some have been read and others have not, they were criticizing me on subjects such as the Family Plan and things like these. Look, you, your government, in the Fourth Institutional Plan... Euskadi's Inter-Agency Support for Families had planned 118 million by 2022 and remained in 73, I believe. Some of the amendments have gone up a haystack. On the contrary, we proposed a fund; we proposed a fund of more than EUR 100 million, in addition to developing in three years, to complement these types of policies. Because we have also made social amendments. Look, our fundamental criterion for the amendments – some of which are of little money, some of which are of much more – was above all to make an analysis of the last three years, to see which amendments that are repeated year after year have not been implemented, that is, which items have not been implemented or have been implemented little. So we said, "Man, if in the last three years they haven't executed 50%, let's..."... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... after year they have not been executed, that is, which games have not been executed or have been executed little. So we said, "Man, if they haven't executed 50% in the last three years, we're going to halve the game." It seemed quite logical to me, but, I don't know, it looks like I've been wrong about something anyway. You mentioned the UPV, which, by the way, has another remaining EUR 69 million. It is true that this year records a small loss of three, but it has an important remnant as well. The issue of budget implementation is seen to be an evil that spreads everywhere. In general, this reminds me of the ostrich policy. That is to say, they are all, and the groups that support the Government, because they are looking a little further towards us. That I agree a little with what Mrs Berrojalbiz has said, that I will now comment on what she has said. But the truth is that it is not a budget, at all, to bring, which is what the budget should do, to bring in a series of measures to transform the economy, to transform the administration. You (...) have referred to the Basque Public Sector Act. I think the rapporteur is her partner, Mrs Gallastegui. But it is that the Basque Public Sector Law is that it has no novelty; it could be a perfectly consolidated text, it does not bring anything new, nothing new. A code could be made by photocopying the existing legislation, compendializing it and it already does not bring anything new. The four or five questions that I have proposed to, say, modernise this a little bit, nothing, absolutely nothing. One of them, which I have proposed, by the way, to establish an independent public policy evaluation agency, not the self-assessment that the Government is making. For this very reason: so that these plans that are presented and never fulfilled and that then with a little luck go unnoticed, because the citizens, the press are sometimes to other things, because they really are fulfilled. And listen, if they're not fulfilled, there's a certain responsibility, that it's improved for the next time, that they change. You said that our amendments did not propose an alternative draft. Man, look, there's a theme, tech. Any amendment to income, technically, is already an amendment to the whole, because in the end what is established is to change precisely the income. What we were proposing was to increase revenue; to increase income, but not at once, because that could affect the deficit figure, which, in fact, you said was agreed by the Joint Committee on Economic Concert. What we propose is to do it three years ago, to do it three years ago. And in that project we not only proposed, as Mrs Berrojalbiz says very well, an alternative project, which is not yours, but has already said: "Yes, it is a project, but it is not ours". It therefore recognizes that there is a project. You see you don't recognize him, but then your partner Berrojalbiz and I will tell you a little bit about our vision. You will see how you see that there is an alternative project. The parties are reduced to the industry most favoured by these governments, which is the Basque industry, of course. But what we do is also create funds for companies, for training. You have to invest in people and stop investing so much in things, you have to invest more in people. And a fund for families as well. I insist, a fund that would be funded at three years. That's what we proposed and it was our model, basically. Man, the 1,500 amendments don't give me time. You know that. But that was the idea, that was basically the idea. Above all, because it was an important difference between what it is to spend without more extended budgets, not... If we extend the budgets for the previous year, it would not change the situation with regard to having these budgets. It's just that in the end... In fact, we would have more assurance from Parliament's point of view, because for certain expenses the government would have to come here to seek the support of this Parliament. But what we propose are not cost budgets: they are, above all, investment budgets; but real investment, investment with changes. The budget had to come along with a package of measures to improve the structure and the productive sector. What should I bring? For a package of measures, as has been done in other autonomous communities, that establishes administrative simplification and bureaucratic obstacles for companies that want to implement. It's just that Mr. Azpiazu leaves before I tell him. But the data, the data of foreign investment in Euskadi, is that it is very bad. It's terrible. The data that came out is really bad. In 2021 we received less foreign investment than the previous year. And not only that, but it's probably the time we've received less foreign investment in 15 years. Of course, we must establish a system in which Euskadi is attractive to invest. And that's where it comes from the article that Mrs Berrojalbiz referred to earlier that I wrote about the Economic Concert, which is entitled Understanding the Economic Concert. Instead of using the Economic Concert to make Euskadi an attractive land for investment, the Government is trying to use other mechanisms to attract investment that doesn't work, that doesn't work. And what's going on? That the investment is leaving us from Euskadi; the investment is going, it is going to Madrid, it is in other areas. That is why this reform package had to bring about: reforms for the managed, for the citizen and, in this case, for the entrepreneur; simplification of the administration, and internal simplification of the administration itself together with a package of real measures to support the entrepreneur. That's what I had to have. Anyway, the Basque budgets... I repeat, this budget and the previous budget are very similar. I mean, paraphrasing a distinguished doctor in Economics, Mrs Pérez, I'm sure he appreciates the quote: "If we subtract inflation, the budget is the same, the budget doesn't go up. Inflation remains the budget does not go up." That's right. It's just like that in the background. To me Mrs Berrojalbiz's reading of our proposals, man, of course, I do not agree with her. I think I'm trying to be more respectful than your party people about the proposals you make, but, man, I criticize the proposals, I never criticize people. But, of course, in his speech so saluting to the policies of the Basque Government, for man, I, of course, have my criticisms here. Critics come not only from this famous background, which is that it seems that no one had noticed until we came here to get it out, that it seems that it is the personal treasure of the Basque Government, that they do not want anyone to touch it. They're... they're... they're... I believe that the modern social democracy, you speak of Norway, I am going to hear, above all, as a model the Swedish, but, well, the modern social democracy that was always spoken of as that of the Nordic countries because it did refer to this precisely: the need to invest in the productive sector, precisely to create economic activity, thus to fatten public accounts and to be able to invest in social policies. That's the key. But that is what they are not doing, because they are forgetting, as always, the productive sector. They are forgetting, as always, the productive sector. We're going to have very difficult times, very difficult times. And that bath of reality that they are going to give is a pity, but the truth is that it will end up harming all citizens and then it will be much harder for us to get out of this situation. I thought I saw her very upset with Podemos, and then I understood why. Because Bildu has at least been consistent, that is, Bildu is supporting the central government in Madrid... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Then I understood why. Because Bildu has at least been consistent, that is, Bildu is supporting the central government in Madrid, in which there are the two parties that support the government, in Navarre too. It was logical that, in some other way, it would also support this Government. And, of course, that is the point of Mrs Berrojalbiz's anger, let's go, as she mentioned, in part, with the Members of Parliament, in this case, of Podemos. Indeed. Then I also saw there as a critique of possible support for union complaints, etc. The truth is that, controlling union complaints, no one with the Socialist Party. You have to recognize that. Then he set me up, because, of course, he says to me, "No, man. You propose to reduce the salaries of the Ertzaintza." Man, of course, Mrs. Berrojalbiz, is that your advisor is here. You can explain it a lot better than I can. It is always budgeted for 8,000 ertzainas. Yes, of course, but it is that the training is in proportion to the number of ertzains. The only one who's made a game to really increase Arkaute's training spending has been me. But, in any case, it's that, of course, if you budget for 8,000 yertzaines and there's only 7,000, man, something's failing us. That is why, and with this end, I understand that the alternative we put to you does not fit you. But I really hope that, after the bath of reality that your government is going to give, next year will be more likely to reach an agreement with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u20	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Miss Hatage, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u21	Thank you. (... but, to give you a little answer here, I dare say, all you who have given your answer. And for starting in order, in the order you've spoken to... Mrs Pérez has actually made a commercial of the budgets. It's logical too. But, well, it's a commercial, it doesn't contradict the argument we wanted to bring here, because you tell me everything this budget includes. All right. But what you're not talking about is what you don't include, which is what I was... What I was trying to argue in my speech. For example, it does tell us about what is included in health spending, which is the largest health budget there has been, that there is an increase... Of course, it does not say anything about what our alternative health proposal was, that we believe it was better and that, in addition, it involved greater public spending. It does not say anything about the need for the 4,000 health care workers, the need to re-contract the 4,000 health care workers to be reinforced by the pandemic. Nor does he say anything about the need to attend to mental health that Osakidetza includes, among its portfolio of services, also more professionals to attend to mental health. Because what... There is one thing, and it is clear, and it is, as much as you say it in a slogan and advertising spot, that these budgets pursue an inclusive society, we will hardly have an inclusive society, we will hardly promote social cohesion if it turns out that public services do not work, if it turns out that there are those who cannot afford the psychologist, cannot afford the psychiatrist, cannot afford the dentist... And, on top of that, you have to wait months to be cared for at your health center, because you also don't have the chance to go to a doctor or private medicine. He told me there are no cuts, that it's not true that there are cuts. But there are. And I, in addition, have given data. I have given concrete data. So, of course, you tell me there are no cuts, so, like a dogma of faith, you have to believe it or not believe it. I have given concrete data. And you haven't answered me to this specific data. Furthermore, when we talk about an austere budget, we are not only referring specifically to de facto cuts, but also to the absence of recovery, investment and spending of a decade of successive cuts. What would I say to EH Collect? Well, you say, on the one hand, that this budget has structural deficiencies. I'm also telling you that we're standing in front of an unusual situation and that these budgets don't respond to an unusual situation. And I also admit that this government has an absolute majority, and it doesn't need any support to accept the budget. And then I'm really going to tell you why I need to protect you? Why protection? And that is one thing that is not understood, which cannot be understood. Because with that protection you actually accept some budgets, what? The public services that deinterlacing them, the public services that render them worse, all of which you approve. If you look at the content a little, if you look at the content of the agreement, there are several elements you mention, but in the apartment, for instance, it might be important. But he was already in a PNL, and he was accepted here on our initiative here. And you got paid off. It's the very content of a PNL supported here. There's nothing new. And even when you talk about the minimum wage, Eukadicus, he'd stay in his company. But the Basque Government has no competition in collective treaties. So, what's going to stop that? Then, seeing more, and the only thing that I see or see or understand at last, you have spoken, Madame Kortaja has spoken, you have said, that in some measure a change of scheme can be obtained with them. But this change of schema is especially remarkable, and you have spoken of it, of your mutual relations with each other and between you and the government. And if this be the end or reason of your attitude, I can understand and may be permitted. But that has nothing to do with budgets. And I really don't think that's a good way. Berrojalbiz andreari zer asango nioke? Speak... It's like she's the marquise of the town, she's handing out money, yeah, when she talks about budgets, handing out money... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... It's like she's the marquise of the town, she's handing out money, yeah, when she talks about budgets, handing out money: "I'm going to subsidize this library. I'm going to give a little (...) more..."; a feeling that the lottery has touched us with these budgets or what they're handing out their own money. That's everybody's money. It's everyone's money, and with the budget, what we do is make up public money and manage public money. But for his real attitude that he seems to be giving us something and that he's touched our lottery. He says the Basque Government's recruitment policy is great, fabulous, and also in the area of health. And that whenever needs arise there is the Basque Government to supply them and to hire them. Well, I don't know, really. I mean, are you telling me that there is no need for recruitment at this time of increased strength to deal with the health service? Is that what you're telling me? Because if the Basque Government always hires, whenever it needs to hire and is not hiring in Health, it must be that it does not need, and then we must live in different situations. He's made a pretty ugly game with the abstentions. You know perfectly well that it has nothing to do with the meaning of the votes with that which you were explaining. And you know perfectly well that, in a committee, abstention is equivalent... and here it is a tactical vote. The abstention is simply saying that the amendments of the other groups are not being evaluated: they are not being supported or supported. And you know it perfectly well. So, saying it here, that way, in the stands, it's pretty ridiculous. And as for fear. Jo, it's funny to me, too. It's just like the version of the rejected lover, who can't admit... What is it, they don't love him?... They don't love him because he doesn't offer anything he likes. No fear. It has nothing to do with fear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u23	Well, I reaffirm again in the idea, which I believe is fundamental, that all economic and financial tools have been used to present budgets with the greatest public expenditure ever proposed, to address with rigour and also with prudence the objective of economic recovery in Euskadi, the recovery of employment and transformation. The rigour and responsibility in the management of public accounts has always been an impression of the Basque Socialists, who have also wanted to make clear in these budgets, meeting the deficit and debt limits agreed in the Joint Committee on Economic Concert, but also taking advantage of the flexibility granted by the European Commission by exceptionally suspending fiscal rules, which we are grateful for and extremely happy with these policies, because they enable us to maximize public investment and use all available resources. And the main thing here today is that no partial amendments have been tabled that would change the model. There has been no package of amendments indicating a new model of public management in any area. Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita has rejected an offer of negotiation with commitments in health, education, environment, housing and employment, which could have improved a budget perfectly aligned, and in the same tune and lines of action with those of other places where his group has responsibilities of government. The best policy of inclusion and social cohesion is precisely to strengthen and improve all these measures. We cannot go beyond this area without regreting the break in the negotiation that proposed to increase by 30 million Osakidetza, for the implementation of the primary care strategy and to make organizational changes, or the 11.4 million multi-annual commitment to promote projects linked to the social inclusion of groups and people at risk of exclusion. Or increase the purchase of public housing for the social rental park by five million. And they talk about education and school segregation, but the offer of negotiation also included an increase of eight million in the investment plan to cover the courtyards of public schools, and they forget the concrete actions that the Government is going to deploy in the field of school segregation, such as activating municipal school offices in collaboration with municipalities, boosting municipal school councils or local tables, promoting strategic projects in high complexity centers through contract-programme strategy, making a diagnosis to study the role of various supply and demand factors that are considered to be conditioning of school segregation, or making a municipal and intra-municipal school map among other measures. Are these cuts? No, they're not cuts. This is the way they have to justify their exclusion. But its break in the negotiation opened up an opportunity for another parliamentary group, EH Bildu, which has concluded a budgetary agreement which has put into value the usefulness of the exercise of the policy of agreement and dialogue, which will undoubtedly benefit Basque society. As for the Basque People's Group, Mr Gordillo, the budget rises by 7.6% to EUR 888 million, and the real GDP forecast for 2022 is 6.7% without inflation. They have tabled their partial amendments, which do not represent any alternative model either, after basically justifying their rejection of the draft budgets because of the lack of implementation of the budget or the deviations in the economic forecasts. And they know that Euskadi is one of the autonomous communities with the highest budget execution in Spain, with 97.3% spending disposition in 2020 in the full pandemic, 96.3% in recognised obligations, and with data as of November of almost 89 % of the budget implemented. In all companies: public, private, administrations..., they work with forecasts, and they work with real exercise. And there are deviations. And there are deviations because we always move in a framework of uncertainty. And as far as the forecasts are concerned, we know that there are... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ...and you work with real exercise. And there are deviations. And there are deviations because we always move in a framework of uncertainty. As far as forecasts are concerned, we know that there are many factors which vary the economic indicators of all statistical bodies, both at international, European and Basque government level. This is precisely why there is a technical team analysing the situation, in order to be able to make proposals for the adequacy of the data. And that's why, Mr. Gordillo, it's not so negative to always have a remnant, at least a little remnant. And more nowadays, taking into account the twin cost of debt-profitability of the market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Kortah's, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. She's right when she says that about these budgets, there's a lot of things already said, right? Because there's been a lot of talk about the budgets, and there's been a lot of talk about that deal that's been made around these budgets, right? Some arguments from the right side have been rather mad, and I will not waste time in answering them, nor would I, in truth, fall into vain disputes; And I won't even get in the retrocade tonight. Look, we say what we do, and we always do what we say. Always. And we said that we wanted to use the budget argument to open an honest discussion, and that's what we've been trying to do. And we said that the moments we live, the needs of the citizens and the romances that we have at the door, the exact incgnostics, the arranged projects, and even at least the least, require vast agreements of nations, and that the historical cycle demands new models of leadership and of government, does it not? And from this conviction we have tried over and over again; this has been a fact which has been laid upon the table from 2016. It can't be, for instance, the management of the pandemonade: Have we put different proposals on the table, on the six sides (from the table? ), and pass, for instance, resistance to the plan of emergence. We've sometimes received negative, sometimes even that. It wasn't possible, either, in regard to European funds. The Basque Country has held this government three times over this long year with definite proposals, and we have tried to join the views of one and the other, and have received no answer. And now we have seen a door open, and have decided to exercise a political exercise, which is all. Because of the responsibility, because the historic moment demands that the answer to the needs of people might be improved, and also because we thought it essential to open the door to some discussions that are essential to the future. That's why I think it's simple. I don't intend to discuss here who the elephant is and who has moved, do I? I guess we all moved. That's politics, isn't it? I do not understand politics as firmness or rest in a place as a value. I don't see that, do I? I believe that politics demands that they should move, that they should be brave, and that the conditions of life of the people, either qualiatively or positively, should be sought for by agreements of improvement, which is politics. And that's what we've been trying to do, like we've tried other times. And, as I said, I don't think I've got that firmness, or that maintenance of it, that keeping of the elephant like that, I don't see it as a value. In any case, I'd suggest an exercise, because, on the other hand, when we talked about the agreement that's been made, it's remembered that the attempt that took place three years ago, right? And, well, I'd like to invite you to make an exercise, and then, when the votes were indispensable, what was put on the table, and now what's in exchange for our abstinence, don't you think? Probably, well... ) Because it has been the most weighty abscessation of the present. But whether we are now facing a real change of government, time will show us. Time will show us. Whether we are standing before a first ray of light or whether this has been an optical illusion, will time show us that? And together, Podemosi, what I said. I think that's what I've been telling you about. Of the many things you put forward, we may, in a great measure, agree with many of the things you propose in your discourse. But we saw a door open for our suggestions, and we understood this budget exercise as a political exercise. And we have also understood it as the possibility of making a public poultice of certain policies. And so, what we see is that, thanks to the agreement we've made, a few budgets that would have gone ahead, and that those answers they're giving to the people in certain games will be better. Eta uste dugu, zentzu horretan, because that reinforcement that is proposed of 30 million in the Primary Care, to strengthen the administrative, medical and nursing personnel, the commitment to face an SMI own... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...30 million in Primary Care, to strengthen the administrative, medical and nursing staff, the commitment to face an IMS of its own, proportional to the average income of the Basque Autonomous Community. A rental price control system that is proper, adjusted to our specificities, and the impulse of Basque R & D. Funding to develop emancipation strategies and plans for young people, or an amount – I believe nothing is negligible – intended for the care of homeless people. An increase that reverses cuts to social emergency aid to cope with the embezzlement of energy transition projects, local authorities and self-consumption subsidies and energy communities is an important improvement to the response that these budgets, whether or not, are going to make, and will make without them. And I'm running out of time, and as I'm staying with what you've said, you've seen that health is a serious situation, I'd like to conclude that the situation we're in now is critical at the moment when we're caught up as a society, and I'd like to end up with two demands. I'd like to ask you, the parties that form the government, the government, not the time to lose, and the first strength to strengthen the attention, make use of those 30 million and not the disorganization. You can start doing things differently because we're in a critical situation. And because, according to all the looks, we'll have hard weeks and months next time. Force first attention, tracker groups; strengthen public health; strengthen and strengthen strength in preventions; strengthen the measurements for cutting transmission strings; encourage CO2 measurements use and convenient ventilations; activate preventation measures; accelerate the teleportation. And don't insist, don't insist, on scientific standards. Speak with the parties, make decisions, agree, determine the decisions and measures that you must make based on the criteria given by the scientific community. Talk co-herence and keep an eye on the communication. Look, this town has shown that its communal power is in ruins. And he showed that when he got in, when he was about to insert it. Well, let's use it. When the measures appear to it, when the state appears to it, clearly, coherence, and well communicated, this people has a common force, which may be used, and which may be put into action in another way. Eta, Azzo, Urkullu lehendakaria haserre ikusi genuine Madril village. Ez dakit zer neurri hartzeko asmoa izango two, bathe neurtu egin behar dira momentu kritiko honetan hartzen diren neurriak; on which pentsatu behar dira. Baina, batez ére, kontuan hartu hartzen den neurori orok kalteak eagiten dituela hainbat sektoretan, eta ezin ditugula kalte horiek sektore horien bizkar utzi: hartzen den edozein neurori laguntza neuroriekin beats her hartu behar. That any restrictive measures taken to curb the spread of the virus must be accompanied by measures to support and accompany the sectors concerned. Measures that, this time, are well designed and offer guarantees. Money in these budgets is for that. And since it's the last pleno day, I'd like to wish you a happy year. Let's get the worst of it in the new year. He could kiss us in the wounds. Let those who come to seek another life be able to give us the most amiable and worthy reception, lest his dreams be drowned in his path. And I hope that the new year may bring together the capacity for a collective dream, equality, feminism, health, happiness, a radial opportunity for life, a right to decide the future, the prosperity that will be divided among all of us, and to place all who lack us on our way home.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Gorrotxategi, if the abstention is not to go into assessing the content of the amendments, why does it criticise EH Bildu's abstention? Why are you voting against our amendments? Why does it not abstain in our amendments? Back us up, I ask. Support us, from sincerity. Do you not believe that these are budgets to be able to cope with a complicated situation and to be able to abstain with your vote? Don't you think you're brave? Where do you see, Mrs Gorrotxategi, the cut? It's the biggest budget in history, that's it. This is the figure: 13,108 million euros, the largest in history. I have already said this in my first speech, not only in terms of investment, social cohesion, education and health. You tell me if we can, you have been able, where they govern, improve or make budgets more expansive, ambitious and investor than these we are approving today. Even so, even if you don't want and don't want me, it will be because I'm a Marquise and that's very bourgeois, I will always have a place and a space in my schedule for appointments with you to talk about what you want, and also for these budgets. Because I think you will agree with me that these are reasonable budgets to deal with this crisis. That is why, I understand, they do not seriously question this budget, and they only pose more expenditure for what the Basque Government has planned, without assessing the explanations given and without considering that, as has been repeated on numerous occasions and also as has been done in the last two years, if necessary, to increase certain items, to increase aid to sectors affected by the pandemic, health, education and that will be done. It has always been done and will be done. This budget has been prepared on the basis of an estimate. Before, I don't know if it was Mr Gordillo, who was talking about it, isn't it?, with the forecast of current expenditure, but that doesn't mean it's immobile. And that, without this increased expenditure, Mr Gordillo, does not worry, affects the solvency of public accounts, because solvency is guaranteed. A deficit of 2.2%, and the debt of 16.9%. Public income... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...Mr. Gordillo, don't worry, it affects the solvency of public accounts, because solvency is guaranteed. A deficit of 2.2%, and the debt of 16.9%. Effective public revenue. The fiscal reform of 2018 has proved effective because, despite the pandemic, the goals are being achieved. A positive development in income. Increase of 14 % to November, higher than the forecasts of the Basque Finance Council in October, combined with a recovery of investment, activity and employment. European funds will be available to support strategic investment and transformation projects, such as electricity mobility, renewable energy or the Basque hydrogen corridor. Essential public services are guaranteed: health, education and social protection. 50 % of public investment resources have been increased, and 12 % of public innovation resources have been increased. An ambitious budget of social consolidation and new economic momentum. And I do confess to you, Mr Gordillo, that with you I have the feeling of living on the day of the marmot, because as much as Councillor Azpiazu explains to you, every two weeks, the origin of the remnants, the fruit of the meditative debt issue and not of the inexecution, and of the levels of execution. That its amendments, by the way, are based on executions, not in December but in September-October. You repeat, repeat and repeat the same thing, right?, week after week; the same with the forecasts. I don't know how we can explain it better: an excell, a board... I don't know, or whatever you want. We are very modern; let it not be by method. But I see that it is not the method, but its will and power to internalize this reality; to want to keep its narrative. Because this government adapts, as you see, it's updated, and it's as realistic as possible, facing – I don't know if I could tell you – you, Gordillo, at least, a little bit gloomy in your messages. He said, we are at a turning point and we have a solid and agreed basis: Berpiztu Economic Recovery and Employment Plan; Science, Technology and Innovation Plan 2030; Euskadi Basque Country Internationalization Strategy; Basque Green Deal, Energy Transition Programme and Circular Economy; Digitization Plan and Basque Industry 4.0; Euskadi Next for European funds. A government that, in addition to meeting the needs of the pandemic, continues to maintain a strategy aimed at turning challenges into opportunities. And (in the meantime? I'd like to discuss some of the decisions we've made, which will protect these budgets, wouldn't I? One, Euskadi Basque Country international strategy has been approved by the government to deploy the outside network. By the way, Mr. Gordillo, who is so constitutional as you have been, and as you have said, the Constitutional Court said that he has a right to defend and promote his interests abroad, and that there is also a treaty of 2015 to plan our strategy for outward action and to develop our jurisdiction. So, Euskawa Basque Country Strategy, Paris delegation and Japan and Korea with two new offices. And that's the way we're going to do it, putting it in value too, Mr. Gordillo. Basque. He's a Basque, and we'll protect him and encourage him against your opinion. Second, the answer to the demographic challenge has been agreed that the freeness of the schools of 0-2-year-olds, for the production of young uninterested finances, for formation and dwellings, or the mutual esteem which they receive from families for their children, has been restored, united, and remembered. And three, the Eugreetic transition and the change of climate, pushing the bill around it too. So I said before: strategy driven to convert challenges to selection. And, from modesty, springs of strength. We also have the strengths, and we must continue to value them. The maturity and responsibility of Basque society; the spirit of innovation and commitment of entrepreneurs; knowledge, innovation and advanced training of young people; adaptability and participation of workers; social dialogue and public-private collaboration. We have a culture of public-private collaboration, a model of sustainable human development, which has proved effective, with a strategy agreed at Berpiztu: the 2030 Agenda, Basque Green Deal, this budget with the priority of investment, innovation and industry. We have the Economic Concert and the capacity of our self-government, greater strength and a more competitive economy, with greater balance and social cohesion. These are the limbs of a country and a government in progress. And this is a great challenge we have, by helping us to transform this crisis into Euskade, by which means to promote future competition, growth, employment, and well-being. We'll get what we've accomplished through history. Our ancestors did it. Now, it's our job, it's the time of this government, and it's your job, what you're going to do with our support. It's our turn to stand up Basque, and we believe that we're still building this town. We'll get it in the neighborhood. If we stick together, we'll get the dream together one day. We remember what we young people are, what we are, what we are, what we are, what we are, what we are, what we are, what we are, what we're, why we're going to go to the trial. Just thank you and good Christmas to everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Now that we've ended our discussion, we'll have to vote. First, we'll vote for the terms reserved by the Basque Popular-Cyans. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 66; 72; the supporters 5, contrary, 62; abstaining, 5; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u29	So they didn't accept it. Then we'll vote together Podemos-Nozzer resolutions reserved for divisional parties. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 66; 72; the supporters 5; the contrary, 41; the abscesssions, 26; the white ones;
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u30	So they're not... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 66; 72; the supporters 5; the contrary, 41; the abscesssions, 26; the white ones;
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u31	So they didn't accept it. Next, the summary boxes and appendages of expenses are voted, and the changes approved in the discussion of the commission are included. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 66; 72; the supporters are 41; the contrary, 10; the Abscession, 21. white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u32	So they're accepted. They vote for the articles of the law and the amendments of the Basque Group, Popular-Cyanos. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 66; 72; the supporters 5, contrary, 62; abstaining, 5; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u33	So they didn't accept it. They vote together Podemos-Netations of the law's articles and regulations. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 66; 72; the supporters 5; the contrary, 41; the abscesssions, 26; the white ones;
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u34	So they didn't accept it. We vote at the same time the articles of judgment and the title of law. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 66; 72; the supporters are 41; the contrary, 10; the Abscession, 21. white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-23.u35	So it's accepted. It is therefore agreed that the law of the General Pre Account of 2022 Eukamia Eremicus. We have exhausted the list of subjects, and before you have finished, I should like to greet the lawyer Edwardo Mancisidor, who is his last plene. And I want to thank him for all the work you've done for these long years on this staff of law, all the help you've given us. And I just wish you the best on that new route. [[Applause]] Merry Christmas for all of us and a new year, see if we can get some good news. The meeting ended at twelve-thirty in the morning.
