ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u0	Good morning, everyone. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, I remember that 31 lords and ladies have inherited the vote. First point in theme list: "Constitution of the Incomprehensibility Committee, made on the compatibility condition of the interrogation candidate. The controversy and final resolution concerning the judgment, and the naming of the mediator, may be so. Any members of the board would like to speak? Are any of the legislatures willing to vote for or to oppose the judgment? Well, we'll simply vote for the resolution of the union committee. Ready? We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 72; the contrary is 0; abstaining, 1; white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u1	So it's just a matter of fact that the judgment is accepted. Next, we'll open a turn for the parliamentary teams to intervene, with article 234.6 of the Chamber's Rule. The whole team's turn, does Misto want to talk? No? Euscala Populara-Ciudados won't talk. Podemos doesn't want to talk with him. Basque Socialists? Not even. What about the Eubertians? Not even. After that, we'll vote for the interstate. 2. of the Law of Arts the article says: "The law of the law shall appoint the law, as the Rule says. To make the nomination, the majority of the three-fifths of the members of the legislature must be drawn. If this majority does not succeed, at most within the period of the month, until the majority is complete, one after the other will be sold." According to the article '96.3.b' on the ruler', the choice will be made by cards. According to the vote by the spokesman's assembly, this vote will be made in electronics. It's only possible to vote for it in favor of abstition or a white vote. On, on, on, on, on, on, on, or on white. So we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 67; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u2	Thus, since the law has obtained the majority of the three-fifths required by the law, Manuel Lezerta Rodríguez shall be named Arla. Second point on the subject list: "In the case of Podemos-Nodemus, the parliamentary bill of law, the law of 4/1991, the 8th of November, which changes the regulating game in the Autonomical Society of the Basque Country. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, so we don't read it, we're going to argue. There's a side shift, EHG, and we're together on Podemos, who's got to be more in favour? No, okay. Eta kontrakoan? Kontrakoan, norbaitek? Ezta ere, explanation of vote. Ah, against, you guys, okay.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u3	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning. We have a subject which is one of the greatest concerns of the Basque People to-day in the legislature, together from Podemos-Ituerda Unida. Here we have several times reported that the business of sports and games of fortune has been spread in a very striking manner in our villages and streets. First of all, I would also like to thank the previous work of the previous legislature, so that this proposal can be presented today, by our colleague Edurne García, and also by our colleague Dani, who put the limbs for this proposal of law. And I would also like, today, because we usually come out here parliamentarians and parliamentarians and we don't see the work behind, thanking the work of our technical team and, in this case, of the proposed law, Lorraine Vicious, Laura Yanguas and also Miguel Brizuela. Because without them and without them, these kinds of propositions could not come forward. And I would also like to thank the entities that have helped us and, above all, that are struggling to adopt greater rules in the field of gambling, such as Eragin – who is present here in this plenary – or associations such as Ekintza Aluviz. Eskerrik asko zuen borrokengatik, for your commitment to prove that the game is a business that also generates a social and economic problem, which must be regulated with force, in order to combat its harmful effects. I would like to put the subject at the outset and we do appreciate, and we have said so repeatedly, the work of the Basque Observatory of the Game. Well, according to this observatory, most of the Basque population has had their first contact with the game between 18 and 34, which may seem normal, but the dangerous thing is that 20% have had it before the age of 18. We have the sad record of being the territory, Euskadi, which spends most per player in the Spanish state: 39 euros in Gipuzkoa, 24 in Araba and 22 in Bizkaia, when the state average is 8.1. And the importance also of the channels by which you play. For example, in Bizkaia, 25 million euros were played in 2018. There's a lot of talk about online gambling, but almost 18 million euros went into face-to-face gambling. According to the Department of Health, 43,000 people in Euskadi have a pathological gambling disorder, with up to 5% of the young population facing this addiction. Moreover, the business of the game produces, in particular, rhubarbing to the young people of the petty origin. Its boom is not the result of chance, but of the failure of a model of neoliberal and individualistic society, which is not offering healthy, cheap and accessible leisure alternatives to youth. And for that reason, and not for any other reason, we have seen the presence of gambling houses growing in our cities and in the working-class neighborhoods of these cities and in our peoples. And we saw this, too, with all its cruelty, in the pandemic, when in the first state of alarm, the Government of Spain practically banned the advertising of the game and, as that state of alarm ceased to have effect, the voracious companies of the game flooded, flooded!, second after second, all the media with their abusive and aggressive advertising. But, in the face of this reality of the game, we also have a very concrete reality in Euskadi, with very concrete and very particular companies. The number of bethouses has gradually grown from 2011. The promotion, however, was not only between the gambling houses or the drawing-rooms. We must also show that the rights of the bets have been clearly increased. The gambling sector generated almost 1% or about 1% of GDP in Euskadi. I will give two data: in 2013, the benefit of these gaming companies was 16 million euros; in 2016, 42 million euros, and in 2019, even greater. And, by the way, they usually accuse us of wanting to destroy jobs. Nothing further than our intention. At that time, which rose from 16 million to 42 million in 2013, 32 net jobs were created in the game sector in Euskadi. He said that Euskadi, in addition, has a peculiarity with respect to the rest of the state, and that, in the face-to-face game, as far as sports betting houses are concerned, 2,100 machines are concentrated in three very specific companies. Its commercial names are RETAbet, Kirolbet and Garaipen Codere. I think it will sound like everyone and all those sports sponsorships, which, by the way, thanks to the work of United We can in the Government of Spain, starting next season, will be banned. And all you have to do is see also the shareholders and shareholders of these companies, to understand some things. "Frente a realidad, together in the legislature that passed from Podemos-Itureda Unida, we did a great deal of work with some builders, with this legal proposition, and with other legal and control souls. Moreover, as I said, also from the United We can in the Government of Spain and the work of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, the actual decree of advertising of the game was approved, as you know, in addition to other measures that have taken the first rules in the field of advertising and a little stop to the law of the jungle, which was reigning until that day. Also, in 2020 budgets and the budgets of 2021, we put our amendments in, and 2020 got tested and not the same ones in this year. In this sense we introduced the initiative: To adopt specialized instincts, to perform preventive actions, and to raise the revenues of unpreventional associations. These subsidies and aids were, as we know, received with great satisfaction by the associations that often work very alone to deal with the problems with... ludopathy – sorry. In 2020, practically, due to time constraints, they could not be implemented. That is why we proposed in 2021 that the budget be increased in order to be able to do so. These are some of the measures we have put forward, but the most important measure – we think – is this proposed law, to amend the Game Law in Euskadi of 1991. In addition, a bill that includes improvements and more legal certainty than we presented in the last legislature. And, on that, the Basque Government has said nothing. Therefore, whoever shuts up, grants. The proposed law has legal certainty. "Alalas de la las modifiones que hemos introdudo son la limitación a los establecimentos del juego en Euskadi." For though it does not affect those who are now working, yet it may cause them not to grow and to retire from those mediums and lengths. And it's important to reduce the number of bet houses, to improve the quality of life in our neighborhoods and in our villages. He said one of the entities I mentioned earlier, Eragin, that gambling is not a simple problem of addiction or health; through the game they want to sell us to the youth of the working class, increasingly in a worse economic situation, the false illusion of a rapid enrichment through the game, to earn millions with what little we have. That's why we talk about quality of life and what affects the game. Because it's money that comes out of the working class pocket, and it goes into the pocket and profits of these private companies. And, as always, the bank always wins. The example of Bilbao: 50 gambling houses and playrooms. I believe that all of you will know the area of Zabalburu of Bilbao, an area not excessively extensive, but very populated and with much movement. In Zabalburu, there are four playrooms, two betting houses and a bingo... in just 200-300 meters. In addition, continuing to talk about Bilbao, although we could talk about any other city in the Basque Country, 32 schools in Bilbao have a playroom less than 100 meters from its entrance. The government tells us that according to... which will perform a... which is carrying out a population study, to dimension, based on socio-economic circumstances, the presence of gambling houses and gambling halls. But this study, if there is then no statutory limitation on the number of establishments, may have quite limited effects. Proponemos la distcia mínima de 500 meters. Set at least that distance between the playingtables and the schools, the universitys, and the players' treatments and the rehabilitation centers. There is a debate, there is an open debate, and there is also a very interesting legal debate, about whether it has to be 500 metres or what measures have to be taken. Well, the failure to take this bill into consideration is going to prevent Parliament from taking a decision on it and having a debate. It may not be the right measure for the 500 metres and it has to be another, but we are not going to know this because this Parliament is not going to be able to say anything about it. And examples of distance we have many. 100 metres from Our Lady of Begoña School in Bilbao there is a betting room; 150 metres from San Ignacio College there is a bingo, and 15 metres from the Felix Serrano Institute we also have another betting room. In addition, in our proposal for a law, what we propose is also to regulate the static advertising of the game in sports spaces, cinemas, means of transport and any other public establishment. And equate it to alcohol and tobacco advertising. As far as the advertising play in the press is concerned, the EukMalk says that in his arguments, he's involved in the state legal sequence. And partly he's right. But it's not regulated in certain specific publicitys and places, because it's our jurisdiction, which isn't regulated, and it's not even included in the decree that's being prepared for the Euko-Ming. And that's why we think, and we'll continue to say, that advertising limitation and almost illegal prohibition is very important. On the other hand, we propose limiting the time frame for opening and closing the playrooms. Not just the closing of the playrooms. Because neither can we accept that these premises open with excessively early hours in the morning, because we know the effects it has. We propose, therefore, in the proposal for a law, that the timetable be between twelve and one of the... Twelve in the morning and one in the morning. And also strengthening the autodeservation registers, which may be an important measure of autodission and control. Governments... The Spanish Government has been records of self-defense for a long time, and I asked Mr. Erkoa in a past plano about it. But the problem we have is that these records are not connected. And the Spanish Government is working in that sense, and the Esunk Enchantment... Well, when he met with the Spanish Government in the country, well, he didn't protect it. We know he's working in that Red Beetle sense, but it's very important to reinforce records from self-destructives, to introduce them into the laws, because we can't accept that such a successful instrument isn't worth it. Porque, en estos momentos, podemos estar en el registro de autoprohibidos del País Vasco, y a no estar interconectados, poes, el fin de semanente, evido, cudo semenente, cuando se acbe la pandemia, puede i cualquier persona que est est en el el regis de reprohidos de carhidos Eusta Cantabia, judera. Y todos sabemos lo que, el passo que que que que que que que que que que de va se inscribin las en el registent de autoprohibitos, y passias sería si no funnzia de la waye que todos todas tenamente desmos. Baita ére, eskatzen duguna da ikuskapenak indartzea. Because it is a very valuable tool, but... and this is also appreciated by the Basque Observatory of the Game and we have evaluated it in different interventions, but from 2011 to 2018 the number of inspections was also reduced. Baita ere, access control, compulsory access control, to all gambling establishments and to the modalities of electronic, computer, telematic and interactive gaming, to all the modalities of the game, including also the machines located in the hospitality establishments and which are also connected to the network. It is not normal that for the online game users have to identify with their DNI and their credit card, with all the traps that can obviously be, because the Internet world knows how it is, and that in a machine that is also connected to a computer system, that is connected to a network of a particular company, the game is absolutely free. Therefore, what we propose is that in the machines of Kirolbet, RETA, Codere... an interconnected identification system must be put in place and, in addition, check through that system that the persons registered in the self-prohibited register are not registered. Sarrera-kontrolen derrigortas a joko-stabilizimento guztietara zabaltzea proposedzen dugu, hut joko-modality guztietan era. And finally, within the highlighted measures of the proposed law, the creation of a specific fund for the prevention and treatment of gambling addiction, which, I am progressing, has changed a lot about what we had written in the proposed law of the previous legislature and, therefore, no mention is made in the Government's view of the contradiction of this fund. Well, as far as we know, and according to what we've read in the government's opinion and in some conversations we've had, the groups that support the government... the government itself is not prepared for this Parliament to discuss, listen to, amend and attempt to generate a great consensus on an issue on which, on paper or statements, we all or almost all agree. The unfavorable approach to the consideration of this law, although with some line more than usual, again uses very vague arguments, very little legal, and the only thing that hides is that, well, now PNV and Socialist Party have absolute majority in this House. 2020an, egun sartuta daden hobekuntzak barnebiltzen ez zituen law-prososamena via onartu eta eztabaidatu zitekeen. Eta 2021ean, ez. What happened? Because I don't have the keys. Do I have to think it's for the absolute majority? Do I have to think that the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra deceived my parliamentary group on the role that is written in the last parliamentary term? Do I have to think that interests are being defended that are not being made explicit in the debates we were having? I leave it to the plenary because there are two reasons why the Basque Government does not deal with this law: First, it says that most of the measures contained in this modification of the law may be introduced into the new decree predicted. Perhaps you are right on some points, but can the whole legal proposition be included? We don't think so. He then tells us that the Spanish Government has done this by decree, trying to put a legal argument to a political criticism of the person who is talking, because it belongs to the formation of the Minister of Consumer Affairs; nor does it seem to me to be a very powerful legal argument, that of the Government's criterion. In Spain, by decree, a law of the year 2011 has been developed in very concrete aspects, in two concrete articles, which we are dealing with, but here what we are dealing with is the reform of a law of 1991, 30 years ago. That's what we're doing; let's not mix things up. And there will be things that, surely... there will be elements, there will be debates that, perhaps, in the presentation could then be left out of this bill, and could go to decrees, could go to regulations, etc. Of course, but we will not know, because this Parliament is not going to debate this issue. He will not listen, at least in a law paper, to collectives such as Eragin, as to collectives for the prevention of ludopathy, to companies of course; he will not listen to experts, he will not make conclusions, the groups will not be able to make amendments to the bill, we will not negotiate, we will not agree, we will not approve the best legislation that we could adopt among all to protect vulnerable people, youth and the working class from the harmful effects of the game. That is not going to happen because the bill is not going to be dealt with. Ladies and gentlemen, enjoy the absolute majority, because neither this country is yours nor will you always have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u4	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mrs. Blanco, representative of the EH Collect team, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u5	Thank you, chief. The chief of the department. Congressman and ladies, good morning. To begin with, I propose an exercise: Twenty-one years ago, the 91st regiment who went to rule, 30 years ago, to retreat. Let us consider what kind of activity games and bets used that year: the second, the casinos, the bets, the sports bets, the popular sports games, the lotterys, the tonbols, the ivorys, and the lotterys... Some of the kinds of activity were well seen, very normal, for instance, the national sports bets or Christmas lotterys. Other kinds of activity, for instance, were eitists in the casinos. Some of them were mostly demorality, and they weren't very well seen. There were few gambling rooms, and besides, they were badly looked at. The Ludopats were thought to be sick, and besides there were few of them. Let's go back to today, and I'm talking about what kind of activity we have in 2021. It's a sporting record, most of them do it through an Internet or a bar machine. Bings are, but digitals, and he walks into casinos through a phone or computer. The sports are not so bad as they are, and they are a matter of friendship, which are useful to socialize. The gaming-rooms are like mushrooms in every town, in every part of town, in every neighbourhood; they are very much like taverns. Besides, they're close to a lot of schools, and drinks and poppies are good for playtimes, because they sell the Tortilla-pins cheaper than in the other bars. I'm sure we've all understood that the current reality, in terms of betting, gambling or plaything, has little or nothing to do with 30 years ago. We will also agree that, if we are to take action around abusive behaviors, pathological gambling, substanceless addictions... then we will, of course, have to do it according to the times. For, precisely, the law regulating the game is of 1991, as Mr Martínez has already said; of 30 years ago. Most of the boys and girls who today have a serious problem with the game were not even born. So how do we want to deal with that problem, if the main tool, the one that regulates that law, is full of spider webs? The explanatory statement of this law is absolutely out of date, because the approach is already wrong: it is considered to be part of the economic framework; the premises where the game is practiced are limited to bingos and casinos; digital bets are obliterated, because, of course, then they did not exist, and in the sanctioning part, for an idea to be made, the fines are quantified in pesetas. So the law of 1991 is to be arranged? Without a doubt. Must the adaptations to be those which are brought to us to-day by the proposed group? Yes or no; but, if we agree, differences may be solved in the power of the law, as we always say. But unfortunately, it won't happen, because I'm just saying something against her, and today this bill of law won't go on. And we understand some reasons that come into the wrong mind, we understand! "Mingorch tells us that the most measures are more suited to the general rules of the game, because this rule answers to a changing reality, but far better than a law. Maybe it's... We understand the lightness of rule, but that doesn't mean we don't have to change a law full of spider webs. They tell us he's doing a planning, and it's true: He's making a planning. But, besides the planning, we wish to know the results and the correct measures which are to be proposed. That's what we're interested in. And finally, as an example, they point out the royal formation accepted in Madrid. We are concerned with all our attentions, but especially those who are now unconscious of it, those who are not demonized and stigmatized, those who see it as a mere form of socialization. Ludopats become chronic sick because they resurrect, but they don't get well. As we have said more than once, we are face to face with a real problem in public health. Pathological gambling, substanceless addictions, behavioral addictions, let's call them whatever we want... They're still an addiction. No drugs, but an addiction. And the consequences for these sick people are the same as those of substance addictions: there is dependence, loss of control, abstinence syndrome, serious interference in the daily lives of these people and those around them on many occasions, in their education and in the workplace. The game with money is more standardized than ever, and it is also more frequent among young people between 25 and 35 years of age. But no, let's not be mistaken, they are not the only ones or the only ones, because this disease knows no ages. Moreover, the pandemic already knows that it has brought us nothing good; this we already know. But it has also had an impact in this area. COVID-19 has increased addictions to alcohol and games, because the stress and distress situation has led to increased cases of addictions that are easily consumed in the home and in solitude. Y la pregunta que hacerse es si realmente las conductas en el juego son una acción. Porque, si es asi, no, not just a titien cabida en su departamento, señor Erkoreke. In our opinion, this question requires a strong and indirect answer, with the implication of all the departments; Education, health, social politics, Youth. In addition, the implication of public powers, of society, and here also of all political groups, is necessary. It is true, then, that our decree is useful. But further on, there are also other instruments running: The Euskal Observatory of the Game (in which there is a plan of action, a Chronogram, representative, and without evaluation). The Basque Council (which has not been set up in this law). The Basque Council of Game. Council advice. 2016 Laws, about the integrated attention of the addictions and drug dependencies. An addiction plan. "Y multitud de planets, encustas y studios, que no decimos que no san necesaris; porque, ademas, muchas veces, en tumara también los pedmos." But, as we have said before, this needs something more than paper. We are interested in the results they produce and the corrective measures to be proposed. And I forget the law of spider webs, with all respect to the people who in their day worked it and pushed it, because they did a good job, that we do not deny that in their day it was not necessary and valuable, but it is that it needs an urgent update, from the first page to the last. A long list of actions and intentions that have been put in place, but still, because addiction to these drugs without substance has not descended; quite the contrary. Bada, txapeldunak zarete! And besides, you seek political opportunities and make propaganda champions too. When we were in a discussion of the preceding law, about which, when we brought the other proposal as our own, the government announced the origin of the Euscal observation. Today, we're arguing about this initiative, and it's just about the International World Games Day, well, it takes advantage of it to make a profit again. And he announces six sensitations and prevention projects that have been financed in the responsible game-that is to say, for the third sector he previews in the fun budgets. Well, that's what I'm trying to find political opportunism champions. We propose to have another champion in one sphere: let us make all necessary plans, studies, decrees, and regulations; but let us reduce the harsh and terrible consequences which produce pathological games. And if it be not by some arrangement of the law, we must conclude it with the consequences produced by the Zactuarchians, but by the unsubstantial but unsubstantial decrees. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. We'll go in reverse shift. Mr Gordillo, the representative of the PP-Ciudadans, told me that he would participate, so the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President; members of the Government who remain here on guard, Mr Vice-Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen... Well, first of all, Mr Martínez Zatón, I thank you for bringing this debate to this House, because it certainly seems to me to be a very important issue, it is of social relevance and it has to be analysed, and I believe that the House, this House, the Basque House, is the ideal place to discuss this type of initiative, as well as measures of political impetus also in the face of the Government's action, and I therefore believe that it is a debate that deserves us to bring it here, to reflect on it; because, moreover, the issue of the regulation of the game is a complex issue, where obviously there are interests, general interests, at stake, which are diverse and need to be harmonised, we have to agree. The position of our group, despite the fact that we can share and share – and I also share very personally – certain issues that highlight and raise the proposal that you are making, is negative, and it is negative, because we do believe that in this area, in this sector, the legal instrument, despite the shortness of the response that the Government has given – which I will then refer to – we do believe that in this sector the figure of the decree, which is a rule, as you know, regulatory, is the best legal instrument to regulate, and I will also give you reasons, which I probably agree with. In the east of the game, the truth is that in its proposal and in the action and regulation of the government, it seems that there are two preconceptions, which, being quite right, are not entirely accurate. In the conception of your group, the game is directly a disease, it is an addiction in all its aspects; it compares with that, with a disease, such as it is; it is something negative and, therefore, it is something to be avoided, corrected, etc., and, in the case of the Government, the game is a very dangerous activity, which has to be very controlled and we already control it in addition. As you know, here, the scope of the game depends on the Department of Security and depends on a direction that is attached to Security, when in other autonomous communities, in the Government of Spain itself, where you participate, as you know, is not in the area of Security and Interior and can change; but, in other autonomous communities, usually the autonomous part is in the area of Consumption, Economy... There is also a debate on this issue, isn't there? We believe that neither one nor the other. In the field of gambling, what we believe must be transparency, transparency in regulation, transparency in the situation and everything that involves the game, and above all transparency necessary to raise awareness of the citizens, of the people concerned, of their environments and also of the parents who educate and train their children. On the issue of the regulation of the game sector in which, as you have also commented, there is a law, indeed, of 2011, which has recently been developed, through a decree of the Government of Spain, in which, I insist, I had understood, I understand, that you also participate. Moreover, the part of the fair game is that which belongs to the ministry of a member – I believe – in addition, directly from his party. But, on this, there was a report already at the time, a report on the legislative proposal of the then National Competition Commission, in which it was indeed established that the regulation of the game sector has to be accommodated and involves a hard, difficult, accommodation exercise of different general interests. Public health, which you have mentioned, but not only public health, but also the fight against tax fraud, which has surprised me that you have not taken it out – in your proposal, you do make a proposal to raise taxes in a given sector, but I think you do not develop much on the subject of tax fraud – and the prevention of criminal activities, together with a right that seems to have been forgotten, but that is a right that can then be taxed and then our social State, which is freedom of enterprise, which is also freedom of enterprise, can be financed, and those are the general interests that the regulation of the gambling sector has to harmonize. These are the interests that need to be harmonized. I have been drawn to the attention you have told me about the game and such as a disease. It is clear that, within this situation, there are people who suffer from an illness, an addiction, as Mrs Blanco has also said before; of course, these people deserve all the social support and all the support of the institutions as well, and we must also take measures, as I will say now, to prevent such situations from occurring. But it has been curious to me that you speak of the failure of neoliberal society, when you propose to us a regulation that is equal to or less restrictive of that which has, for example, neoliberal society, according to you, par excellence, which is the United States. You know that in the United States the theme game, gambling, is tremendously... come on, very regulated; that is, opening a casino requires a law as little. It's not even an administrative concession anymore, and it's also forbidden in most states, etc., etc.... As you know, reserves of indigenous people usually resort to this type of business, etc., right? Well, what's the position? Look, the criterion used and explained by the CNMC, which has a department – it had a department – of studies with very prepared people, people who, unfortunately, many of them are no longer for various reasons, a very interesting study was prepared, where it said that, in fact, there is a situation and a public health problem here, that we have to take into account, that we have to regulate some issues, but above all also that we have to allow freedom of enterprise, the freedom to establish also a business, an economic activity, in which there is also that right. Listen, and also the freedom of people who also want to resort to the game – because, too, listen – in a moderate way and in the use of their own freedom. The proposal that you are making, in fact, I believe, although I insist that I recognize all the work you have done and I also recognize the passion with which you have defended it, and I believe that it is also worthy of recognition in this Parliament... I believe that it is partly born out of date, even for the very objectives that you claim to be defending. Because it is also mentioned by Mrs. Blanco, today the main issue... Your bill is essentially aimed at what is face-to-face play, when today perhaps the main issue is the online game, the online game where here, as a man, it is no longer to put doors to the field, it is to put doors to cyberspace, and this, of course, is complicated, as there is a need for harmonisation and coordination between national regulations – by the way –... national and also autonomous. The proposal made by the Government – which, by the way, I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President or Vice-President Lehendakari and Security Adviser who sent us both to Deputy Councillor Josu Zubiaga and Director Aitor Uriarte to share with us the general lines of the decree that they are planning to adopt –... The proposal that the Government has set up is not very different, it is not very different from what you put forward in your proposal. It is not very different and, moreover, both start from the same philosophy, a philosophy with which we can share certain elements, but in which I believe it is necessary – and so I made it known to you and I say it here also from the rostrum – and I made it known to those responsible, and I repeat it today... where advice, not only from the Game Observatory, on public health issues, but also from competition authorities, is also desirable. Because, look, all that has to do with – and I quote point three of the explanatory statement of your proposal, which I insist, is very similar to that which the Government defends, in this case, and that which the Government will develop in its decree – limitation of the number of establishments, establishment of minimum distances, regulation aimed at prohibiting advertising... –all these kinds of questions–, opening hours, which is something else you play a lot with, don't you?, opening hours. These kinds of issues, I say aseptically, are issues in which the alarms of any kind of authority, reasonable and competent, for the defence of competition... that makes you jump the alarms, and any competition authority would have to approve a report, either motu proprio, or, if so, then appeal this decree to the judicial authorities. That is why I think that if, in fact, after a study, it is understood that minimum distances must be established – I think that the shots do not go there – a minimum number of establishments – I think that the shots do not go there either – or a ban on advertising – I think that measures should not go there either – because man, then it is advisable to have advice, because this type of issue, sooner or later, if it is not in the Spanish courts, will be, sooner or later, also in the courts of the European Union itself. That is why I think it is appropriate – and I did so the other day, and I repeat it here in this House, to the Security Adviser – to seek advice and request a report from the Basque Competition Authority, which we have, and its role is also to draw up reports on these kinds of issues. The Government's proposal, therefore, seems to me to be a continuation of the above, and I believe that there are certain issues that could be sufficiently clarified. We only have or know the general lines, which the Government has shared with us. It would be good if, when they already have the final draft, we could perhaps also put forward some proposals. The government's proposal, I insist, is that it essentially shares... except for a proposal that you put in, which is to ban the advertising of all the media with stations in Euskadi and such and absolutely on public television. These kinds of issues, well, I think it's hard to carry... , to implement, as is said now, to carry out; but, well, in any case, the shots and the government's proposal – I think – go that way. I believe that limiting the number of businesses is not the solution. The limitation of the number of, above all, licences is not the solution. In addition, the government itself has said it again in another way... The idea is, when they close, because this crisis has affected this type of business – which I insist, they are essentially face-to-face – very much, not to re-grant such licences, because, on the other hand, licensing is not a matter that the Government can often do, grant or not, graciously, as was often said, arbitrarily, but is subject to a regulation that must be respected. But that's not the solution. Why? Because if you're limiting the number of licenses and no longer granting new licenses, what you're doing is artificially inflating the value of licenses in use. So what the government would be doing here is regular in favour of what are called the incumbents, who are the economic operators who are already on the market. And by reducing and not granting new licenses, what it does is artificially increase the value of licenses that are already at stake. And that is why I believe, from a legal-economic point of view, that this is not the solution. What is the solution, in my opinion? Well, look, the main thing is access control. The main thing – you have also said, and I agree with that –... The main thing is access control, and the main thing – which you have said too; I acknowledge it, I congratulate you and, moreover, it is an issue that must be said permanently in this Parliament – is coordination and interconnection with the rest of the self-prohibited registers, with logical respect for all personal data protection rights, but we must cross-reference the data and have a unified database for these types of issues. The coordination between administrations here is fundamental, that they interconnect, because we are doing doubly many things, and sometimes data is passed on to us, especially in neighbouring communities as it can be here, and, man, that cannot be. And then, finally, above all, prevention and self-awareness policies. For me, it's hardly good to ban directly. Often the prohibition serves to stimulate the forbidden, isn't it?, especially at certain ages. I believe, we believe, that the most important thing in this field... That's why I was talking about transparency and not taking the gambling sector to areas away from the cities, because that does cause a wait, doesn't it? Therefore, we believe that the best are prevention and awareness policies, prevention and awareness policies!, so that we all know... in addition, awareness of young people or people affected above all, through already a process perhaps more clinical, but also of parents, right?, in the time also to educate their children, and through schools and public and concerted school. In this regard, I believe that the Basque Observatory of the Game, which has a budget line as you already know, man, also has an important task to do. That is why we believe that the way, the solution to this, especially because of the theme that touches us that is also the theme of the online game, is that it is of little use to limit, close, etcetera, in person, when, as you well say, is that already from a phone, from a smartphone, you can be making bets all day. That is why we believe that the important thing is precisely that: awareness. And, already, then, from a technical point of view, we believe that the ideal way, the ideal way, is the decree. Look, here we agree, here I agree, with the government, that joé, is already getting over it: on one page, well, they look like three, but it is in Basque and Spanish, and removing the headings and the signature that is huge, because it is less than one page, less than one page! Vicelehendakari, less than one page; I don't know [[Show a page]] - No, no, no, Then we submit these reports to the courthouse and what happens, right? But I believe that the report could have been a little broader, a little more concrete and a little more developed. Essentially what he says is right, as a summary, as an abstract, is right, so that we can all understand it. But, man, a legal report has to be a little broader and more complete. And I'm going to tell you something that you don't say in the report, and that you might end up agreeing with me. Look, when all this, when the debate so interesting that you have brought here, then, indeed, happens, and now the decree is finally approved and, well, this already comes into force, and already the media focus may disappear a little bit, for here there will be a question, and that is that there will be rules that are included in a decree. Fortunately, the decrees are subject to appeal to ordinary jurisdiction. If you put these kinds of questions and we put them into a law, into a law – which, by the way, you would never be able to pass in this Parliament with this majority, with the content that you propose, but if we put it into a law – that law, as you know, is irrefutable before ordinary jurisdiction; it could only be declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, which in matters of jurisdiction is being brought into very little, in very few cases. We would have to wait for a judgment by way of something called the preliminary question of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and as long as there was a European element, a connection, let's say, with the European market, something that often does not happen and the Constitutional Court, unfortunately, still does not see. On the other hand, if this is approved by decree, you may lose this vote here today, obviously; you may lose this vote here today, but when the decree comes forward, you and we will be able to analyse it and we will be able to appeal to ordinary justice. I do not know if I am giving the Government any ideas, and that in the end it changes its mind and ends up regulating it by law, because I believe that, in another matter, it is what they intend to do, but the regulation by decree gives [that opportunity] to their group and to us... and to all citizens, because any citizen could do so, even an association of interest related to this sector could perfectly put an appeal before the ordinary court. We believe it is the best guarantee in the final analysis, above all, in a context in which it is necessary to be realistic – we are reminded of it much more; curiously, it is remembered much more by the socialist bench than by the Basque Nationalist Party itself – and it is that there is no majority for this law to come forward with the wording you have proposed. So, in short, what we are proposing is this: we are proposing a market for gambling that is transparent; we are proposing a market for gambling where there is work on the part of public awareness and information authorities, especially at school, and we are proposing legal certainty. To that end, in order for genuine legal certainty to exist, we expressly request the Government to seek advice and to submit a request for a report to the Basque Competition Authority. If they do not do so now, we will do so a posteriori; as soon as the decree is adopted, we will ask the Basque Competition Authority, and if it does not consider it appropriate, we will also ask the NCMCs, the National Commission on Markets and Competition, to draw up a report. Because one thing also happens with the decrees, Mr Zatón – I forgive today the issue of procedural-administrative, but with the decrees something else happens, which, by the way, does not say the government's report – and it is that both the Basque Competition Authority and the NCMC, the National Commission on Markets and Competition, can also file a direct appeal against this decree, which comes out of the game. On the other hand, if done by law, an appeal could not be brought before the ordinary courts. In summary: transparency, awareness-raising and legal certainty. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u8	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. We're going over to the answering shift. Together Podemos-Nozzer, Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u9	Yes, thank you. First of all, we must thank Eve Blanco for the time agreement. And I liked to see where we came from, to see where the law came from, and to show the necessity of the modification of the law in a very graphic and clear manner. Well, Mr. Gordillo... Well, the problem is that the debate we're having right now, I'm going to..., because I have to certainly share time with Mrs Eba Blanco, because I'm going to have four minutes and 30 seconds to argue with her some of the arguments, and in a piece of legislation, because, possibly, or in a parliamentary piece of paper, we're also open to it, because we'd have more time and quieter and quieter in order to do it. You have made many references, and it seems normal to me and is consistent with your ideology, at least with the ideology that, since your coalition, you have been trying to make hegemonic in society, with which we obviously disagree. We do not oppose the issue of gambling to a dichotomy between public health and freedom of enterprise. The game is an economic and socio-economic activity, we could say, but it has possible pathological consequences, more than possible; it has them and the data from the Basque Observatory of the Game, the Department of Health and countless documents are on the table. And, of course, any regulation – and that is why I say that your intervention is consistent – clashes with freedom of enterprise. But, as you probably know better than I do, in the Spanish Constitution there is freedom of enterprise, but also the economy is subject to the general interest. And there is no greater general interest than the public health of all, and especially of vulnerable groups. And, as Eba Blanco also said, they are not only young people, obviously; but, generally, as all studies indicate, they are working-class people. So, for us and for us, the main thing, above the market and above the freedom to do business, is public health, the general interest. Obviously, man, you quoted reports and arguments from the National Competition Commission. It is logical that the National Competition Commission, which is an instrument dedicated to guaranteeing freedom of enterprise – percent, in our opinion, misunderstood – will be against any regulation that limits a commercial activity, because it is generally its activity. He then made the reference to face-to-face play. And it's true that the online game has grown a lot. And for that also, among other measures, is the royal decree of gambling advertisements, approved by the Government of Spain. But I also gave him Bizkaia's data in 2018: of 25 million euros earmarked for the game, 17.4 were in the face channel. And there is the importance, only if we see Bizkaia's data, of greater regulation of the game, to prevent its harmful consequences. And he has set the example of the United States. Well, surely a lot of the legislation that you have quoted briefly, because we do not have time for more, we would gladly accept it in this Parliament, because, as you say, in some things, not in all, you have more restrictive measures than ours. Opening hours are fundamental; they are fundamental, because all studies on this issue show that opening early in the morning is harmful to vulnerable groups. And, as far as access control is concerned, we agree, but it is a very small issue on which the Basque Government is working, and that, of course, that part has also been forgotten to me at the beginning, and we also appreciate the meeting we had; but, well, it is insufficient for us, because that is what this House is for, to debate on laws. And, as far as legal certainty is concerned, this bill was going to pass all the procedures of Parliament, as has been done by the actual decree of the State, which, as you surely know, has passed through the Council of State and has also passed through the European Union, although we would like not to always have to pass through the competition filter of the European Union's Competitiveness Commission. But it's happened. Therefore, this law also, this proposition of law also, would pass them. Finally, the issue of prevention and awareness-raising is fundamental. But it is that, for prevention and awareness, we should be all people in this society equal, and we are not. Awareness-raising and prevention campaigns are not the same for vulnerable individuals and groups as for other groups. Therefore, in addition to prevention and awareness-raising, it is necessary to regulate to avoid the harmful consequences of the game. Nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u10	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. The Representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Blanco, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u11	Thanks again, ma'am. Mr Gordillo, I have not been able to understand you very well, because you have come down and said that this debate deserves reflection in this House. They are going to vote against it, but I have not, in their speech, found arguments that are solvent enough to lead to that vote against it. I would have understood a abstention, but according to your speech, I really do not understand your position, the position of your group. You say that, well, then, the best legal instrument to regulate this is a decree, among other things, because it also says that decrees can be appealed. If we do not like by majority the work that can come out of that paper, the result of that law, well, the decrees can be appealed. And better decrees than laws. But he knows where we are. We're in a legislative chamber. And, in addition to control and impulse to the government, we legislate. We legislate the pre-projects that the government brings us, initiatives of the groups... And all that can be saved, as I said in the first intervention, with a good job in the paper. It serves, on the one hand, to listen to the social partners, who can contribute a great deal to us, and it can provide us with a great deal of knowledge about this and, on the other hand, it serves to agree or disagree, but, generally speaking, it can do so on many issues, through these works. But if you give up all that, because there is an absolute majority, then I'm sorry, but in the almost four years that you have left I don't know if it's worth working on any law. Let the government make the decrees, develop the decrees you want, and let's all go home. The game is a problem, it's a problem! He says they're not in one position or another. Well, gambling is a problem, and we always talk about abusive behaviors, behaviors that can result in addiction, risk and damage control; we're not saying that nobody can play, obviously, but we have to do it with responsibility, and we have to be very aware that this often creates a real problem, which is a drug that creates addiction, and we have said it in the first round. Well, we have talked above all about face-to-face gambling and online gambling, – I have also talked about online gambling – but it is true that we do not forget that many of those sports bets that are on the rise now between boys and girls are made through machines in the bars themselves or in the playrooms themselves, that now we are not seeing it so much by the pandemic, but they are usually full of boys and girls, which can lead to nothing, because they are going to spend the morning and bet; but, on many other occasions, unfortunately, they drift into much more serious things. I have seen you who have reticence; you have, more than anything, technical problems, more than in the background, and I say all that again can be solved in a paper. What I don't understand is that I'm going to ask for another report again. Look, the Observatory of the Game – reviewing the minutes that are requested, some by this group – in the time it is running, has spent all the time analysing and reporting. What more reports are needed? I will remind you, I will make known to you – because you were not here – an agreement signed in this House by myself and the two groups that support the Government today. February 14, 2019, two years. Two years ago, we asked the Government to submit, within that observatory, a study that would collect specific questions, among other things, the impact analysis on which groups it impacted more or less; we also asked that this report be transferred to the Technical Advisory Commission of the Game; we asked him to take it to the Basque Board of Addictions – which we have not met at that time or now –; we asked him to come up with a plan with certain corrective measures from that shared analysis – which I have been saying several times –; he asked for campaigns in universities and teaching centres, and we asked him to develop, in its entirety, the Addictions Act of 2016. Two years, and here nothing has to do with the pandemic, uh, because this was supposed to have been presented on February 14, 2020. You have news; we don't. And you still need more plans? No, no, We have enough studies, plans, organs, agencies and so on, so that we can take action and deal with this if we really consider and believe that these behaviors can lead to problems such as those that are coming out, especially between boys and girls. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u13	All right. Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, here I am doing the government's job, right? Mrs. Blanco, I, to the critics, will now try to answer you. I also propose to carry out an activity, if you like, within this Parliament on the sidelines to... –type also seminar – for some formal issues of an already more legal type, which I think it is interesting that we have. And you are focusing on me and such, which I think is fine, because we have already announced that we will vote against, but, come on, that the final votes – and that they will prevent you, therefore, from taking forward this proposal – will not be ours precisely. And that is something that you are living now, moreover, with more and more force in the Bureau, that is..., I say by the Bureau agreements that come to us, that is I don't know; it is good that I criticise us and it seems to me good, because I believe that in this Parliament, among other things – and I can agree with that conception – we are here to discuss and, hey!, to find the best possible option. Why are we voting against it? We will vote against, because we understand that the proposal that is made is not the best legal instrument for regulating these kinds of issues; we do not believe that, through a law, we have to... "The legal report uses the word "petrify"– well, putting in a law a number of issues, such as controls, limitations of meters, timetables and so on, which also have to be done, but this type of issues, I insist again, have to be done after reports from the competition authorities, which the autonomous communities do not like, think they are think tanks, I don't know, of that neoliberalism that he sometimes pursues in his nightmares. But at the NCMC, in fact, the main conclusion to which the report comes – which, come on, I will send it to you and your team –... , the main conclusion it comes to is that, yes, it is indeed necessary to intervene in the gambling market. And one of the proposals he says is: hey!, limiting access control, and that's what the competition authority says. That is why the competition authorities do not seek only a market without any kind of controls, rather on the contrary: what they want is that there is a market in competition, respecting a number of values, and among them, of course, there is public health, of course, there is public health. That's a competition authority. That's it! It is an authority that does what it does to approve reports, in which other social values that deserve to be protected are taken into account. And that is why I say that it is better to ask for a report, not just sociological, political or even, indeed, medical reports, because what is behind here is obviously not only the fight against a terrible and tremendous addiction, which is ludopathy, but also that these kinds of issues, these kinds of measures, can then be thrown back, can be annulled, in a court of justice, and we have a very recent example. That is why we say that there is legal certainty, because these things must be done well. Therefore, our criterion is that. I therefore believe that the optimal way is, hear, to draw up a decree; the Government in drawing up the decree should consult with the Basque Competition Authority, which is what we propose. And then, from here on, when the text is approved, we will also look at it and, if necessary, resort to it. Obviously, in a parliament it comes to law. What happens is that the best legislative technique in this case, as we have already said, we believe that it is the way of the decree, the regulatory way. That's the point. That there are a number of aspects that need to be taken into account? Well, obviously. Of course, they have to be taken into account. And listen, and in the decree, therefore, there is a very important one, which will be the issue of access control, which will also be the government's policies for prevention and awareness-raising. That's why we are here, that's why we are here, that's why we're here, that's why we're here, that's why we're here, that's why we're here, that's why we're asking the government to carry out these kinds of policies. We believe that a radical ban, protecting people from themselves, is what you always seek through this... of many legislations, well, indeed, we must have the means to protect public health, but, man, here is also the issue of freedom: not only freedom of enterprise, but also the freedom of people, who are reasonably willing to help, at best, or to use the services of a gambling company in a reasonable and moderate way. And that is the argument that we are following, and that is why we will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u14	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 44; 75; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 48; the abstainations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u15	So the legal proposal was ignored. Next, we'll go to the vote. Missest, Mrs Martínez? Mist? Mist must not speak. Basque Socialists? Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u16	President. Ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Group has voted against the proposed law, sharing the Government's view, to consider the regulatory development of a better procedure for reviewing and adapting regulations. We share the need to review and adapt the rules of play to the demands that are made from the citizenry, so that gambling, sports betting, the use of money... does not result in behaviors contrary to the values of education, the coexistence of people, also the sufficiency in achieving the basic needs of people or in health. We share with 88% of the Basque population that the game is not good for society. We also share that its negative aspects further harm young people, that there are too many opportunities to play and that we need to reduce and control access to the game and its excessive publicity. According to the data reflected by the Basque Observatory of the Game, the playing habits of the Basque population demand an important review of public intervention, in terms of its regulation. A revision to be made with flexible methods, replacing the rigidity of a law with the ductility of a regulation. The game can associate addictions, cause economic and social problems, generate frustration, distress and other disorders. For this reason, and sharing that the initiative presented does have political value, it does deal with matters of social interest, to derive the proposed law to regulatory review and amendment, we consider it more appropriate and effective, for the changes that are needed today and for those that will be needed every certain time to adapt to a reality that can change rapidly. It is clear that the Government is willing to share these changes and to be transparent. He has recently done so with all the parliamentary groups, making known to them not only the position in relation to the proposals that were being put forward, but also his own position in relation to what he considers appropriate to change. It is clear that this is a problem for everyone, for society as a whole, for society as a whole. And, therefore, the way of the regulation does not seek to reduce participation, or does not seek to avoid participation, or the considerations that must be taken from different angles of view, but rather to do so, as I have tried to justify, in a more agile way, more adaptable to reality, more adaptable to changes, but of course trying to share many of the things that have been told here today. It is clear that today's debate serves, is useful, because it has laid down a large part of the key elements that need to be modified. And on that line, the government is working. And so, let us say, that if not by the preferred way by some group in this House, but by other means, participation and transparency are assured, of all the groups in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u17	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Madam Larauri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u18	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. Vice President, Solicitors, congressmen, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. Our team's vote was rejected, together with the view that Podemos introduced to the Basque Act in accordance with the traditions of Euskalism, not the report, the reports of opinions are in the file. We share the growing concern of society for the proliferation of gambling establishments, the need to protect the most vulnerable groups (minors, young people, people with diverse abilities, people possibly suffering from gambling, etc.); in short, for the problems related to obsessive gambling in recent years, that is, a cross-cutting, health and public order problem. We also share the growing social demand to continue regulating, to continue ordering, the game sector, and there is the Basque Government; however, by sharing part of the objectives, we do not share the proposal put forward by Elkarrekin Podemos, neither in substance nor in form, and therefore we have not given him the pass with our vote on a path, which, in advance, we understand is not the right one, because the path that we believe is the right one is not the amendment of a law, but the way of regulatory amendment, the regulatory path and that of planning, because we understand that it is better suited to the here and now, that is to the socio-economic reality of Euskadi, to the current needs of Euskadi. Why, not because of a question of deception, but because of a question, first of all, of time, because the Basque Government began, more than a year ago, a process of regulatory change and planning that will soon culminate, surely before the processing of a law that could be started here today, and as we all agree, delays are not acceptable in this matter. Secondly, because the regulation, as has been said, is a more flexible instrument of management, which is much better adapted to a reality as changing and as rapidly evolving as it is in the game sector, because the law must regulate structural or permanence aspects, as our Basque law of the year 91 does, yes, but the regulation must regulate the changing aspects, as is the case. Formulas, by the way, the way of regulation and planning that are using other administrations, as is the case of the Ministry of State Consumption, led by the United We can, which, recently, has passed a real decree that approves a regulation of the game; that is, it uses the regulatory way and not the amendment of the law, the proposal or the way that is proposing here Elkarrekin We can. Other autonomous communities are also amending their regulations to introduce the planning technique, that is, a further test of the suitability of these pathways. Moreover, it is necessary that the process has a solid legal basis and technical basis, which has it, adjusted to our reality, to the reality of Euskadi, not based on mere assumptions or perceptions, regardless of formulas from other places. And these studies and this technical basis are reflected, among others, in the Plan of Action for the Promotion of Responsible Gambling and Prevention of Problem Gambling; that is, a solid legal and technical basis that gives greater legal certainty and avoids possible challenges, to which we certainly do not encourage, and which above all fits our reality, a reality that we believe does not fully conform to the measures proposed by Elkarrekin We can, because, in part, as I say, they do not conform or produce unwanted side effects, such as, for example, the relocation of premises outside the centres of cities, which can create unwanted concentrations, or other measures that are already contained in existing legislation, and also more strictly. For this reason, the Basque Government is making progress in measures, including control of access to premises for minors and self-prohibited persons, progressing in the obligation of control in all premises, also in the advertising of the game, in inspection and control, and in addition, there is already a surcharge because Elkarrekin Podemos proposes a surcharge, and at the moment already exists with a higher rate, which is 12%. The measures on which the Basque Government is working are known to the groups; therefore, we believe that they are much more..., the way, in form and substance, which is being followed by the Basque Government, a process coordinated with other administrations, with other governments, also with the Government of the State, a process in which autonomous competences are being defended, in the face of re-centralizing threats, a transparent process, which has even been reported to the parliamentary groups here in the House, for their explanation and contribution; another thing is that it does not satisfy their degree of participation. But here what it is about is to keep ordering the game, to keep ordering the game with a solid technical-legal basis, yes, and, of course, we are clear that we are not going to get lost in ways that, in advance, we know are not the right ones, because here it is neither egos nor protagonists nor having my law; it is about giving the best possible solution, and, as we all know, it is what the Basque Government is working on. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Third point in theme list: "To discuss these causes at once, and to take up the resolution once and for all: The Moment, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Greyse Martín, of Euskadin COVID-19. Moment, introduced to the popular group of Laura Garrido Knörres, a member of the Ciudadans, concerning the responsibility of irregular grafts." Team proposeer's turn. The representative of the Mist, Mrs Martín, is your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u20	Thank you, President; good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Nobody escapes that it is difficult to predict which vaccines will reach the Basque Country, when and in what amount. We all sense that the production and distribution process is extremely complex and that the demand is enormous and that, at least at the moment, supply is also limited. So far, we all agree, but this remarkable uncertainty cannot serve as an excuse for the Basque Government and the Health Council to justify a final lack of protocol to be followed completely until yesterday afternoon and somewhat less because of the pressure that the opposition groups have put on Mrs Sagardui. Casuality, the handling of information, the handling of times, is a sign of identity of this government, but there are still many unanswered questions, many issues to resolve, because they actually handle little more than intentions. They speak of over 100 years of age, 90, 80, 70; they follow other age bands. We are talking about essential workers, but we do not know who is who, and we cannot forget the irregularities that are settled by vague explanations and some other lie. This same week we have read, in a media outlet, more than worrying statements from people who know well what is really happening, for example, in hospitals or in the barracks of Ertzaintza. For example, speaking of Ertzaintza, you did not talk about the protocol that they were following, but it is true that what has been said is that they will not vaccinate those over the age of 55 and not those who have passed the VOCID-19. Then, we have the doubt that you may have passed a serological test, because you say that you already have antibodies. We believe that, by this selective scale that you have adapted to Ertzaintza, you must already be vaccinated all the ertzains, unless, of course, as you have to do on your day off, you have not yet come to cover all the fringes you want. On the other hand, also from the nursing union, from SATSE, denounce a lack of strategy, which clearly indicates which vaccines go where; if necessary, with names and surnames. From the medical union, even thicker words are used: "The process is being disastrous and chaotic; there is a missing road map that determines where we were and what we want." And there are other voices that point out that he's acting out of a complaint. An OSI, for example, remembers that the percentage of vaccinated professionals is lower than in the neighboring OSI, and the next day, curiously, a shipment of vaccines arrives. Someone complains that private health professionals are also to be inoculated and a vaccination campaign is announced at a specific hospital. In addition, it is evident that the difference between the percentages of vaccination from one OSI to another and from one hospital to another is more than remarkable. I doubt very much that it is due to a preconceived plan the proven fact that in some hospital there are all the professionals vaccinated, while, for example, in the Mental Health Network, not even 5% are reached. This is what we have: lack of strategy, lack of a road map, absence of defined criteria and objectives, confusion and much discomfort. And we have it because you have no protocol, because, once again, you throw improvisation at a matter of such relevance as this one we are discussing here today. As I said, the government's excuse cannot be that I don't know what, when and how many vaccines will arrive in Euskadi, because it is the duty of the council to have what to do with what they provide at the time they do so. Without a doubt, this should be one of the priority jobs in the Department of Health, because it is not acceptable that, as unions and professional health organizations denounce, each end of the day is an incessant search for people to be vaccinated with the excess doses. How is it possible that doses are given, Mrs. Sagardui? What are we playing at? Say what the Ministry of Health says, which commits, moreover, the same sin that it would advise of Health by not publishing a precise and very detailed protocol of vaccination throughout the national territory, here we should already know the order of vaccination of our family members in situations of special vulnerability, of that family member who works in a supermarket – always exposed – of the policemen who care for us on the road or of the baker who every day serves us behind a counter. I will not judge the decisions that have been made to date: start with the elderly residents and the staff who care for them, and continue with the health professionals who work on the front line, although for so long they have remained in oblivion, for example, those elderly people who do not live in residences, even though almost no one knows who the front line staff is: whether the public care staff in a health center or the person responsible for the library of any hospital, also the cleaning woman, the caregiver who attends to an elderly person, the cashier of the supermarket... But from there, what? At this point in the pandemic, you should be clear as to which are the essential professionals and which are not, and you should make it clear to all of us as well. We should know what is going to happen to private health professionals, to contract staff, who, without being public officials, also work in the front line, with chronically ill people, with members of the state security forces, with firefighters, with journalists and hairdressers, with those who serve the public in their small or large businesses, with the teachers of Baccalaureate and also with our children, some of them in that age band in which they seem to camp, more to their breadth, the new strains of the virus. Therefore, Mrs Sagardui, let us ask you, that we demand you, in the shortest possible time, to report to this House, and with all due detail, on the order of vaccination envisaged, also on the objectives that have been set, on the time horizon with which we work, on the forms of the organization of resources... We want you to draw up this protocol as soon as possible – it is terrible to say this almost two months after the start of the vaccination campaign – but we want you to draw up this protocol as soon as possible, as I say to you, with all due detail, that document in which it must be made clear to me what is being done with the excess doses, although it should be the guarantee that in the future there will be no such excess doses. And, as a fundamental aspect, which must accompany the protocol, it is essential that they design and implement a powerful communication and information campaign. Every day we hear news, almost all kinds of news, about this vaccine and the other: if of this one I am and of the other something less, than the Russian one does not touch, than for one concrete collective and one for another. That yes, it gives us every luxury of details of the percentage of effectiveness, details of the temperature at which they are to be kept, even of the price. Have they not considered developing an information campaign so that confusion does not ensue among citizens? Do you not believe, in the Health Council, that people should be treated as potentially intelligent rather than as a docile flock to which absolutely nothing should be explained? Ladies and gentlemen of the parties that make up the government, do a real exercise of responsibility and support something that they know needs the people we represent. The problems associated with the vaccination campaign, which every day flood the media, are generating despair among those who see in the vaccine the point of return to normality that we so long for. A clear, detailed and precise protocol; maximum transparency, collaboration with those who have something to say, with those who know about these issues, and information to citizens. We don't think it's much to ask! That is what we expect from this Government and its Health Adviser. That is what you should also demand from your own people. Without further ado, I will follow his excuses carefully – if they do well to offer them to us – to give as good the lack of that precise and detailed protocol and the opacity with which it is acting, to describe as normal the many problems and controversies that are marking the vaccination campaign begun at the end of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u21	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chiefs, congressmen. Well, I asked the counselor two weeks ago; I asked her the specific question of whether she was going to assume first-person responsibilities for the irregularities that had been detected, up to that time known, in the hospital of Santa Marina and Basurto, which led to the resignation and termination of its managing directors, and whether responsibilities were to be cleared also in the Osakidetza Directorate in the Department of Health, in order to regain credibility and confidence in a highly valued institution, in Osakidetza, the public health service. We believe, in the group that I represent, that these irregularities must be clarified, the ones already known and those that can occur in the future, and that, in this sense, it is necessary to reach the end of them, to get to the bottom of the matter and to clear up all the corresponding responsibilities, and to get to where it has to go. We can say that the insertion process is a disaster. On the one hand, there are irregularities, and they must be cleared up and reached the last. And we must know exactly what has happened with irregularity, and the irregularities we have hitherto known must be explained. On the other hand, we don't know what this government's strategy is when we talk about vaccination, a planning is unknown, the criteria change, and the decoration is obvious. Without the end of a group, it begins with the others, and we may say that it is obvious in many countries. Of course, this government doesn't have a plan of grafting. It's a problem plan, and that's what we're asking for in our motion. With regard to irregular vaccinations, as I have pointed out, we believe that it is necessary to get to the bottom of this matter. I think there are still many issues to be clarified. I am not going to go into this issue in detail, since it has been dealt with in this Parliament and I am also asking the Commissioner tomorrow, but I am going to make a small reference to irregularities in Basurto and Santa Marina. I believe that there are issues to be clarified in relation to the number of days in which vaccinations took place in Basurto, to the vaccination of Dr. Collazos, if circumscribed on the 15th day, as the counselor and the lehendakari herself, who supports that it was vaccinated on the 15th day, have said. Why did he do it that day, when his vaccination is not justified? Because it is not front-line personnel; it provides health care in the field of prevention, but it is not front-line personnel. With regard to the vaccinations in Santa Marina, I believe that it must also be made clear, once the vaccination of all the staff of that hospital has been authorized, how are all the authorizations and the delivery of the exact doses to vaccinate, as I say, to the entire staff? In this sense, in the motion that we are bringing to this House today, we present, in the first two paragraphs, the fundamental ideas about clarifying everything that has to do with irregularities in vaccinations known to date, such as future ones that can be known; let us hope not, but that, if there are irregularities, of course, they will be clarified. In this regard, we call for absolute transparency in the information files, in the investigation files, which are being carried out, and, above all, that the substance of the matter be reached, knowing clearly the causes, the scope, the content, the actors... of these irregularities, the knowledge to which it came from the Department of Health, with the counselor at the head and the director of Osakidetza, and, if so, as we have consistently claimed, that the corresponding responsibilities be cleared. I believe that it is also appropriate to reiterate the requirement of ethical commitment to all senior government officials and senior management, so that vaccination criteria and protocols are scrupulously complied with, and that first-person responsibilities are also assumed for those actions that have been able to permit or facilitate irregularities that may have occurred. As for the vaccination process, as we have also pointed out repeatedly from this group, we consider that the vaccination process in the Basque Country is a real disaster, it is chaos, and it is a situation that is already being perceived by a large part of the population, by collectives... The other day we were aware of the specific criticisms made by the trade unions, the professional health organizations... There is much confusion, above all, in groups that are in a situation of special vulnerability and also in people who are at risk. We can therefore say that there is clearly a lack of confidence in the citizenry, which sees that the Basque Government, in this matter, does not have the clear things at all. It should be remembered that this campaign is an absolutely unique campaign. It is a unique campaign, first, because we are in a pandemic, we are not in an ordinary campaign, and there are many things that are still unknown. Everything is plunged into uncertainty. Doses are insufficient and, secondly, a second dose should be inoculated in order for vaccination to be effective. It's what's called revaccination. Therefore, it is not an ordinary campaign. And that is why we constantly remind the Counsellor and the Basque Government that, because it is not an ordinary but singular, extraordinary campaign, the criteria, more than ever, must be clear and rigorous, which they are not. Apart from the known slow pace of this vaccination, which leads us to be the third least vaccinated community, it should be noted that everything that has to do with the vaccination process in Euskadi, well, that was supposed to have designed the Department of Health, but it is not designed, because we see that the criteria change... He said that everything that has to do with the vaccination process in Euskadi is involved in an absolute opacity. The lack of transparency is absolute. Discoordination is evident; there is no planning; the criteria are not clear... Here you jump from one group to another, without having completed the vaccination of the previous group. There are no clear criteria, as the professionals are denouncing, in relation to the remaining doses. It can't be that, in a scenario of dose scarcity, when... Of course, there may be extra doses, but a specific protocol will have to be established to know what we do with those extra doses in hospitals, when there are more. And that you don't have to walk at the last minute to the Tuntun, to see who gets the dose or those doses. That's what's going on, counselor. And I believe that this is of a gravity that must be recognized and measures must be put in place to ensure that this is not the case. Well, you can call some reserve people... I don't know what the solution is, because it is up to you to look for it. But what can't be is that, at the last minute, you're looking for people, to see who you're putting the extra doses on. And that's not what the People's Party says. This is contrasted with professionals who are constantly transferring it to me, that this is one of the problems that currently exist in the protocols, that are not clear, what to do with the excess doses, because there is not a list of possible or susceptible people, well determined, who can receive those excess doses. We see that there has been no timetable; disorder, uncoordinatedness, criteria are not uniform. I was telling you yesterday, Madam Counsellor, about residential accommodation for people with disabilities. I asked her last Wednesday. I asked you yesterday, and you told me absolutely nothing about this issue. These accommodations, in Llodio and Amurrio, are vaccinated; they belong to the OSI of Galdakao, but those in Alava are not vaccinated. The criteria are quite different. Why have some health organizations vaccinated front-line staff, or 80% of the total staff vaccinated, not just front-line professionals, and others still have front-line professions? We are concerned, Madam Counsellor, as you told us yesterday, that the vaccination of front-line professionals has not yet been completed. You stated yesterday that the vaccination of front-line professionals has not culminated in Osakidetza. I don't know what rhythm you're carrying, but what's clear is that the results aren't the expected ones. And you're not up to the circumstances. Of course, he's started to vaccinate Ertzaintza. And yesterday he told us that just yesterday to private health professionals. I imagine that here you will not think of establishing a discriminatory criterion with the rest of the members of the state security forces and bodies, because you have not told us anything about the National Police, the Civil Guard and the Army. I imagine that they will also be considered essential collectives and that their dreams and nationalist anxieties I imagine they will not lead you to establish – I tell you to warn, and because this issue remains clear – no discrimination with this collective, because, I tell you that we will be attentive, and that just like the Ertzaintza, which is obvious to be vaccinated, and the rest of the local police, there are also National Police, Civil Guard and members of the Army who provide their service, and very important, in the Basque Country. Of course, beyond the fact that we have known that the criteria have now been changed at the general level and that age criteria have been established, Madam Counsellor, we do believe it is appropriate that, once and for all, apart from turning the vaccination process around in Euskadi, the relevant measures should be taken, a vaccination plan drawn up and disseminated in Euskadi...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u23	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u24	... establishing the groups to be vaccinated and, within the groups, establishing clearly the groups to be included. And finally, Madam President, I will finish. We think it is important that, with a view to improving accessibility to rural areas, an experience which has been set up in the Community of Foral in Navarre, which is a mobile unit, can be launched if necessary in order to bring vaccination closer, as I say, to rural areas. It is a device that is working well, which is the first community in which it has been launched, and I think it would be a very interesting initiative to access and improve the accessibility of vaccination in areas where there is also a larger population, which has difficulty getting close to health centres. And, in that sense, I think it would be an interesting initiative to study.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u26	In short, Madam Counsellor, put on the batteries, which I think is already the time, and that we are all playing a lot and that this matter really needs to be taken up now, once and for all, seriously.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u27	Thank you. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u28	Good morning, congressmen. Our parliamentary group has made an amendment to the whole motion of the People's Party-Citizens, which Mrs Garrido has just explained. Because, it is true that, during the last few weeks, we have witnessed the shameful scandal of irregular vaccinations, which has caused great discomfort – rightly – in society, and especially among professionals, both health and social health, and also among collectives who live daily with the risk of contagion of a virus that has, among other things, very exhausted us all. For our part, we have asked for explanations to clarify everything that has happened and to take on all the responsibilities that have to be assumed and, above all, to ensure that society does not remain in the sense that nothing happens here when it is vaccinated to those who are not yet vaccinated, while thousands of people who are on the front line have not received the vaccine; many of them have not yet received it today. And we believe that the feeling that is remaining is precisely that: that nothing or almost nothing happens. The government has had two caradures between the ranks of its high offices, and ready; as we put them, we removed them, and something else. The rest, from what we have been able to hear on more than one occasion, are inventions of the opposition, wanting to revolve or touch the noses. She complained in the Health Committee last week that she had already given explanations, in a committee and in a full monitoring committee, to the questions of the parliamentary groups: that was the third time she had given explanations. And it's true. That, and so we pointed out, read exactly the same speech as the previous week, without answering specific questions that some groups asked him. When we proposed that the counselor knew that the entire hospital in Santa Marina was being vaccinated, because there were reasonable doubts, we were told that they did not know him. When we ask: "Well, we believe that they did, based on what we read in the messages exchanged between the former hospital manager, the director of Osakidetza and the counselor herself, where it is said that all the staff are going to be vaccinated", we are told that the Government understands that these messages relate to all the personnel that correspond according to the protocol, not to all the staff. When we tell them that this version does not seem credible to us, that the messages seem clear to us, that the numbers of vaccinated people who are being given from the hospital are drawing attention or should have attracted attention, or that, having a previous request to vaccinate the entire hospital, it does not seem credible to us that the expression "let's vaccinate the whole hospital", they tell us that it is not a matter of versions: that is what the government interprets, and point. Meanwhile, the president of the Basque Nationalist Party, the party at the head of the government and to which the two high offices resigned belong, already told us, previously, on the radio, that the issue was settled; that we should devote ourselves to something else, that we were already bothering too much. I was reminded of what happened a few years ago in the face of the opposition's work – including my parliamentary group – to make it known what was happening with fraudulent OPEs. On that occasion, it was nothing but a strategy of harassment and destruction, because the opposition was nervous. Now we are told that the issue is settled, and that all we do is set in motion a witch hunt. When black grains come out of this government, it is the opposition, which is annoying, which is invented, which is harassing and overthrowing, which is looking for a witch hunt; nothing further from reality. And that's how I explained it to the counselor, too, when I had the chance. But we're not going to commulgate with mill wheels. The responsibility for what happened with the irregular vaccines lies not only with the two exgerents of Basurto and Santa Marina. It is not acceptable for it to be assumed that the decisions of these two senior officials, for which they have had to resign, would not have been possible if there had been no poor management by the Department of Health. And that requires responsibilities. We do not accept that the only responsibility required is for these two people. They are not two citizens who have skipped the rule; they have caught them, and that's it. They were two managers who were part, or were part, of the organic structure of Basque health, under the responsibility of the Department of Health and the Basque Government. The decision to carry out such irregular vaccinations could not have been carried out if the department and the Osakidetza Directorate had done their job well. Someone decided to immunize improperly in Basurto, and someone decided not to register these vaccinations in the clinical history, which is absolutely mandatory. Someone sent Santa Marina enough vaccines to vaccinate everyone: staff and patients, without any kind of control. The resignation director of that hospital did not remove more than 500 vaccines from the sleeve of the jacket. There are, therefore, responsibilities beyond their management at the head of that hospital. It has been seen, in our opinion, that there is no good control over vaccines: about their distribution, about the circuits to be travelled, about where, when and who is being vaccinated at every moment, about the planning of vials and spare doses... And all that brawling isn't the exclusive work of two hospital managers. They have, of course, a high responsibility for the decisions they made in their respective hospitals; reprehensible. And it is good that they resign, or if they do not resign, that they be ceased by the government, as in the case of Mr Maiz; it is good. But above them, and in parallel, there is a responsibility on the part of the department and the Government, not to have avoided these and other situations that we have known. That is what we are asking in our amendment: that all responsibilities be cleared, because we are convinced that this has not been done, and that the answers to all the questions raised are known, because they have not been answered. But, beyond the responsibilities, this whole issue has exposed the mismanagement and planning that is being done with the vaccination campaign against COVID. And that makes necessary changes to it. We think there is no good planning; there is no good coordination. We have seen in these two cases how Public Health is responsible for managing vaccines, the OSI request them, according to their needs, but we think that someone will have to plan how many are sent to each OSI, and for what groups, for how many people, how many to each center, all having the complete map of Basque public health and the collectives to be vaccinated at every specific moment. We think that this is not being done well and has had consequences, one of them what has happened in these two hospitals. Two weeks ago we started hearing complaints from different professionals in Osakidetza, (Emergencies, hospital of Bidasoa and others) about the lack of vaccines in these areas to frontline staff, when they were seeing that in other centers they were being vaccinated. On 27 January, the Government had stated that the first dose would have been provided to all Osakidetza personnel in the second week of February. And it wasn't like that. And we understand the difficulties. But we think that when vaccinations are announced, propaganda is made; when it is not fulfilled, nothing is said; when you ask for this, as I did last Wednesday, you do not respond, and I repeat that we understand the complications to meet certain deadlines. It takes the government to be clear and to have a more concrete, detailed planning, so that this does not become a sort of The Hunger Games, a competition to see when each group is vaccinated. Today workers are being mobilized, for example, from ambulances, workers who are absolutely on the front line and who, for the most part, have not received the vaccine. And this is not understandable. We therefore propose, also in our amendment, that vaccination planning be thinner, clearer, more dynamic, of course, because we understand that it has to be dynamic, and we understand the difficulties it has. But it can be done better and it must be done better because it is generating a great discomfort especially among professionals. In the light of how things are going, we believe that much improvement should be made on this issue. We believe that what has happened in the two hospitals, on which issues remain to be clarified and responsibilities to be assumed, is a consequence of the very bad start of the management and planning of the vaccination of a virus, which is not an ordinary vaccination, like those that Osakidetza with the flu every year, and that it needed a much more specialized planning, a planning that the department should have been on top of and that we have seen that it has not been. That is what we propose in our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u29	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u30	Thank you very much, President. Less than a year ago, a pandemic broke out. Since then, in this House, my group has always said the same thing: full confidence in those who are making decisions to save our lives, regardless of the party, regardless of the government, is not affinity to acronyms, is that the only enemy that any party should have is the virus. We said that in March, in April, in May, when the first state of alarm had as its decision-making body the Government of Spain. We said that in June, in July, even if it were a campaign, we said that in August and September, when a new government was being prepared, and we repeated that since then, when the Socialists have committed ourselves to a government that has as its first challenge to ensure health. And if we talk about political responsibility, this is the first we should have the 75 parliamentarians in this House, and it is the one that we have the representatives of the Socialist Group: building confidence. And the second, which is the first of the Government, to ensure that all of its trusted and public offices know that they are public servants without any privilege. The Socialists say this bluntly: zero understanding, contextualization or justification with those who do not know how to live up to the greatest responsibility they have had to manage. Zero! No one has asked them for magic remedies, because they do not exist, but we do demand – and we demand – maximum exemplaryness at this unprecedented and critical moment in our history. So, counselor, the first thing, without glances, there are always those who mock the norm, but today it is not always, today it is now and, as is being done, without contemplations. That Osakidetza's concern is always to explain that we have to get vaccinated when we touch and that we don't lose a second in explaining the inexplicable. And yes, with a strategy, and yes, changing it once, three or 20 times, whatever it takes, because the pandemic and the reserves demand it. We are not alien to the concern that the vaccination process has caused in certain groups, especially among health personnel and, in a unique way, among some organizations that represent them. We are not insensitive to that concern, which is also our concern, and, as we know, it is also present in the daily work of the representatives and officials of the department and of Osakidetza. We will all conclude that this is not a simple task, that in the vaccination process there are very varied, unforeseeable circumstances. Accepting this should not be an excuse for there to be no, that there are, as I will detail below, protocols that try to cover the largest number of situations and avoid any misadjustment. Another thing is that it is intended to use this moment politically to pretend to erode the Government. We have been talking for months about the vaccination process and its protocols, and several weeks also talking about the irregularities that the department itself detected in the development of this vaccination process, as well as the measures it took. However, despite all the information received, there are those who try to obviate it in order to try to raise this debate in the field of speculation, of conjecture, where virtually any assertion is worth it. This is the only way to explain much of the statements that we have heard over the past few weeks, raised by some of the opposition groups, first of all, in relation to the vaccination strategy and protocols themselves. In this House there are those who have come to say that they believe that there are no strategies or protocols – it has been said; it is in the sitting paper – or that, if there are, they have two pages. But this debate cannot go from what anyone wants to believe or not to believe; this debate of what they have to go is of fact, and on the basis of those facts, those statements are simply alien to reality. There are documents and of course they have many more than two pages: the first, the Vaccination Strategy against COVID-19 in Spain and its successive updates; the second, the Osakidetza protocol and its updates, shorter, as in the other protocols of autonomous communities, why?, because they take as reference the previous document. Therefore, as we have always said, as we have always said, the strategy and protocols exist; they are there, and no, of course they do not have two pages. But let us continue: you put forward in your initiatives that the order of priority for group vaccination should be clearly defined. Well, if what they are asking for is that there is a prioritization of the population groups, professional groups, sectors and stages of vaccination, that is already being done in these documents, but always as far as is possible today. That's right, if what they're asking is that that prioritization is totally chronologically ordered and establishing an unalterable calendar, it's simply not possible, and they know it. But I'm telling you again that I'm not asking you to believe me; I'm just asking you to read that strategy and read those protocols. The Vaccination Strategy against COVID-19 in Spain is the basis of all protocols of all autonomous communities, including the Basque Country. And this strategy defines the stages of vaccine availability; all population groups are analyzed, and prioritization is established. But this document, like the autonomous protocols, is a living document; in fact, it has already had four updates, the last one yesterday, and I assure you that there will be a few more, because, as set out in the strategy itself, it will be altered for such logical reasons as the extent to which more vaccines are being authorised, depending on the number of doses of those vaccines that actually end up arriving on the basis of the equitable distribution determined by the European Union, as well as the new evidence determined by the European Medicines Agency. And as we have seen, it is precisely for this reason that new collectives are being added to these updates in the different stages of vaccination, as was done last week, by including, for example, day care or home help professionals, or yesterday, when it has been agreed that the following groups to be vaccinated continue to be prioritized according to age, since it is the main risk factor for serious illness and mortality by COVID-19. And that is why, too, there are no temporary closed references, because they will obviously depend on all these factors. It is true that, by reading your initiatives, just as you want to move us here today is that you do not agree with those priorities or criteria, and that you have to choose others; say it, which ones. But, honestly, I would like to draw attention, because things of co-governance, the Vaccination Strategy against COVID-19 in Spain and its successive updates, which reflect these criteria, have been developed by the working group in which, in addition to the Government of Spain and expert committees, Euskadi and seven other autonomous communities, of which four are governed by the People's Party, are also represented. And curious fact: with the exception of Galicia, in the other three (Andalucia, Madrid and Murcia), these governments have the support of Vox. Well, if the experts see it clearly, also the experts that your governments have decided to put on the table, why don't you see it clearly? Euskadi has its protocol, as is the case with the rest of the autonomous communities, but these protocols are aligned with the Vaccination Strategy against COVID-19 in Spain, and all of them are subject to change, also those of the autonomous communities where you govern, and none of them establishes closed and immutable schedules or priority orders for groups and groups, nor those of any other autonomous community, because it also affects them that new vaccines are being incorporated or not, the doses that actually end up arriving and scientific evidence. I think it is simple to understand; another thing is that they want to tell us that in the Basque Country it is not worth what is true for the rest of the world, read, for example, the 14 pages of the information document on vaccination against COVID-19 in the Community of Madrid; you will see that it also says exactly this. For all this, our group, the Basque Socialists, have tabled, together with the Basque Nationalist Group, an amendment which, on the reality of the existence of the vaccination strategy and protocols, urges the Basque Government to continue to inform Parliament's Health Committee of the updates that need to be made on the basis of the types of vaccines and doses available, as well as to ensure vaccinations with the same guarantees in both urban and rural environments. And on the need to comply with these vaccination protocols, there is no doubt; we urge the Basque Government to continue to demand compliance, and that, in the event of any irregularities being detected, it continue to proceed to the transparent clarification of those facts and to the clearance of the responsibilities arising from them. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u31	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Telllería, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u32	Madame President, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. I would like to start with a reminder to Pilar Unzalu, who was a parliamentarian, but above all she was my partner in the Álava Chamber and adviser when I was an official in the Basque Government; but, especially, to Xabi Agirre, who was my deputy chairman, my party chairman, my fellow-chairman and, above all, my friend. Having said that, I come back to the reality of those who remain here, to debate. And, Mrs. Garrido, the checkpoint is tomorrow, review what you said and you'll see that it looked like you were in a checkpoint. Look, this motion, which initially intends to address several subjects, although it seems to have a forced link between them, each of them could have been dealt with in different motions, but it unites them with one question: to continue to embarrass the camp, or to try to maintain an effort to destabilize the Government and, particularly, the Department of Health. I'm going to try not to disperse and focus on giving up, which is what can really interest citizens, which is nothing but the vaccination plan. In this respect, our amendment is intended to ask the Department of Health to keep this Parliament informed, through its weekly appearances before the relevant committee. Of course, and I am sure that you will say that that you are reporting weekly does not convince you, and that you want to be told, without waiting any longer, how you will proceed to vaccination of all the groups, and what day and time you will be expressly touched. What more would the health counselor and all the Osakidetza workers like that could be like that. You know, like me, that vaccines come with droplets, that every Sunday we know how many are coming on Monday and that, when they come, they also come together with technical specifications that had not been notified. When Pfizer began to arrive, if in principle five doses could be taken out of each vial, it is suddenly reported that six can be taken out, for which it was necessary a special syringe, which was scarce in the market, because everyone – and in this it was everyone really – was going after them. When he touched Moderna, as he arrived, it was reported that it was better not to move her much, because she could deteriorate. And if the department planned to divide it by residences, which were the first objective, because it could not mobilize much, they decided to modify their plan and concentrate the first arrival of the vaccine on Cruces, in order to be able to immunize the professionals of that hospital, since the concentration of vaccine in a space facilitated the management of that vaccine. By the way, to see how you handle the matter, Mrs. Garrido. Although the counselor explained this issue to us in a committee, in the next committee, you asked her to explain why the initial protocol had been skipped and that it had begun to immunize health care workers earlier than expected. That's how it goes, if we don't listen. Well, continue the colebrón. When the AstraZeneca vaccine begins to arrive, it is reported that it has not been analyzed in older adults and that it should be focused on people under 65 years of age. There is a debate at European level; everyone is making the decision he believes best, and in the Spanish state the decision is made to apply it to children under 55, when the first doses are already here. On the basis of this decision, the previously designed vaccination strategy needs to be reconsidered, because people over the age of 55 are already expected to be in a high percentage and risk groups must be located that can enter those age ranges. Just as the counselor was telling us – and this is true – I get a message on the urgent phone that the WHO has just said that, well, now it can be used for more than 80 years. As you will understand, there is no way to do such a planning beyond a week. That is why – and I suppose in general terms – people, citizens and citizens will understand, even if you, Mrs Garrido, are offended. That what the Department of Health can do is inform us to the extent that they have more or less reliable information. And, as Mr Rico has said, of course there is protocol, but we have to update it, because the conditions for vaccination, moreover, are complex, because to add to the complexity of the technical specificities of the supplier companies the ignorance that every Friday there are of how many vaccines will arrive on Monday, it makes it doubly complex, but, at the same time, we must add to it the complex heterogeneity, at least of the first groups to which the vaccine is directed. It seems to me a miracle, with all this, that it is being carried out without major inconveniences, without major inconveniences!, except those that the opposition is raising every day and, lately, especially you, Mrs Garrido. Residential and health care workers are often plagued with unforeseeable cases: there are people on leave, holiday staff, people who have passed or are passing the COVID and many more cases. If we add to this that the doses that are coming, once thawed, there is a time to put them, it seems reasonable that small dysfunctions occur. For example, if when it comes to a 58-year-old man getting vaccinated is not because that day he has had a sprain of ankle in the morning while breakfasting, because he stays at home, and will pass to the next, which may be on his own risk step or on the next, and which is also younger, but, moreover, he was already and was going to touch him in a day or two. This fact is normal, and it would go unnoticed, because, in addition, the 58-year-old gentleman, when he is reinstated, will be vaccinated. But that information, Mrs. Garrido, in your hands, becomes an element that puts wattages and herces, an adequate staging, a few drops of suspicion, and creates an alarming case where there was only a normal situation, which surely occurs every day. That is, when it comes to managers, it is informed and decided. And here I go about the first two matters of your proposal. There is no need to ask the Government for transparency in its investigations into irregular vaccines or for the resignation or termination of high-ranking officials who are consciously in breach of the criteria. He has been doing it and will do it; I refer to the facts. That is why we do not ask him to do so, but to continue to do so; otherwise, we would be stealing from him a way of doing what he has been practicing since the beginning of the legislature. And in the meantime, what Elkarrekin started first We can – asking for a commission of inquiry that no one supported, because the protagonist was who asked for it, and there was no other reason – continue Bildu, proclaiming by voice in the neck that citizens had been lied to, without knowing in what and to which citizens had been lied. But, of course, you, Mrs. Garrido, could not stay behind; you needed your leadership, you took on discord and doubt, you went to some kind of dramatic art – I think, in addition to the Stanislavski method – and you appeared around here roaring and becoming offended and outraged, simply to keep the field embarrassed and try not to let the government work, with the necessary calm, in the face of the challenge that it has on it. But his joy in a well. Mrs Ubera has already returned to the attack, to regain her leadership, requesting the reprobation of the councilwoman. Let's see what's next and who's next. I suppose, Mrs Garrido, that you are aware that the pandemic situation we have been living in for a year is serious, that we have been 12 months before and since, limiting activities or allowing them, that the contagions go in the form of waves, that they accumulate dead by that pathology. Well, if you're aware of that situation, I also think it's logical to make some effort to understand that the government doesn't do things foolishly or crazyly or in a mood to jockey. He does what he thinks is best because of his knowledge of the situation and which, at every moment, allows him to have a shortage of vaccines or, in his case, some judge. And in this situation, with the heaviness of the obsessive daily information, with measures that come and go, with not finishing to see closely a normalization of the life of each one, a social tension is generated before what will happen to us tomorrow, producing a logical social tiredness, if not an exhaustion. While you are engaged, in your political strategy of confronting the Government, in curving the situation more and more, in dramatizing an outrage at the Government and in casting doubts everywhere, trying to be heard and seen, with purely political objectives, and regardless of whether the little you say you can get to the citizenry probably generates more discomfort, more distrust, in those who are struggling with the reconstruction of normality and more detachment from the institutions. There you are! But our group will continue to work to build trust among citizens, so that they can, in the midst of so much fog, trust those who, with their human mistakes, are working tirelessly to bring this country back to normal. I'm not going to criticize him as I criticize him. It's yours; it's yours. But I must also ask you to understand the task of the Government, which is its responsibility to deal with it, to understand that, in this tide of problems, there may be some dysfunction and to put itself on its side. I'm warning you. If you take the positions you take for political opportunism, you better take the position of cooperating critically with the Government. Whoever takes that position, when this happens, all this, which will happen sooner than later, will see that his position gains social advantage. However, you will be able to pursue your political strategy of continuing to strain the Government. I can't help that. It's only up to you and the strategy you decide. But, in general, I remind you that the strategies you have chosen in recent years have not been very good for you. In the meantime, our group will continue to support the Government and the Health Adviser, who, when she detects wrong actions in her department, tells us and acts with determination, in addition to maintaining the attitude of being constantly waiting to solve problems, which we would already like to imitate the opposition. As hard as they've been trying, the citizenry still values Osakidetza's performance 7.6 out of 10. That is the value of the Government's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u33	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. On behalf of the teams that have no corrections, Mrs. Ubera, yes, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u34	Good morning, everyone. Mr. Tellegio, did you just say that vision they have, or that rating from the citizens, 6,8? If it can be improved, shouldn't we try to improve? I think that's everybody's job, right? Without falling into self-consciousness, without falling into the vortex of eternal evil. The poorest handling of the Czech bell, decontrol, transparency, lies, and not keeping what has been said, concludes impatience, anxiety, confidence and credibility, and the following results between the people and the medical authorities. The absence of a clear superior of the health department, of not taking care of itself, and not being an example, has led an incubation of the press to become a war: Put them in first place. When, more than ever, the weakest, the most vulnerable, and the necessary medical workers of health in the first line with COVID-19, are to be treated with solidarity, when all values and principles are to be dealt with in equity. And this government ought to reflect deeply about it, and even as society we should all reflect deeply. The EAE insertion campaign has become an image of chaos and decontrol. Besides, we're going very slow, though the government's trying, as you've done now, leaving care to others, right? In the transfer of Ceremonies, they now have all the fault with the pharmaceuticals, and their shipping, when they have seen that there has been no interruption in the last few weeks, and that we have placed very few vaccines either in Madrid or in the directors of the integrated sanitarian institutions, when the health department, the chief physician, forgets that it is his responsibility, whether it be his planning, whether of the division or of the organization of the division. He lied. The information has disappeared. What happened has been denied. But the health department said only that he would take responsibility for decoination. There has been no completeness in the care it takes to take upon itself, to be a pattern, and consequently to pass over its cares. Even more, the President and I were protected by the health department. If the health department thinks it's enough for the government to turn a ball on that moral committee that controls them, then what do you want me to say? Therefore, Madam Garrido, what you ask at the second point of your proposal, is plain, that this government will not fulfil its duties, nor will the high-governs be exempted by the irregularity of the grafting, by the absence of protocol or discretion. If they don't see themselves exactly bound, they won't. And we've seen how they behave. In the preceding plunct we asked the President clearly, if the chief physician of the Medical Department does not take upon himself the responsibility, he ought to deprive him of his office. But the answer, on the president's side, was that the chief physician of the health department had a full protection. So that way you suggest, Mrs Garrido, there's little we can do about it. Or is it your goal to act like OPE, throw a stone and then hide your hand? You can explain it to me. There must be other ways to break if we want to make some sort of order in the Medical Department, if the ship's rudder is to hold fast, and we want to be a manager who will lead the insertion campaign with the staff, because more than ever the citizens and professionals of the Osar should be trusted in their medical authorities. It is evident, from time to time, that the Government alone explains and moves when they find themselves in a state of extreme necessity; and yet it is so. Thus it was with graftings, with that which happened at the Vatican and at Santa Marne; and so it was with the members of LABABI, that you justified him at first, but afterwards you were obliged to deprive him of his office; at least you took him out of his office. We know that the main lines of the insertion campaign are derived from Europe and Madrid. And we understand, we understand perfectly, that it will be dynamic, that there may be changes, as it happened yesterday at the Public Medical Committee. Because, well, we know very little, we'll know more and more, and things will change, okay? But we know that each community has a lot of room to plan, and that it can do a lot of things to organize, to sequence, to move in the way it is needed... For one thing is the master of the line, or the strategic line, and then another thing, which every community ought to do. And there, I'm very sorry, but he's disappointing. Look, the Osadetorical Calendar, the document, the planning... I'd like to read it, Mr. Ekain Rico, but I don't know it; it hasn't been public yet. The only one we know is the document that hung in the old Osapart workers' study. And surely this is the great fault of this history, that is the source of all the things that we are suffering, isn't it? , that patch of transparency. Besides, we're going very slow, and it's not, as I said before, because there's been interruptions in the vaccinations, there's no statement, there's always been when the instructions are in the inn, or when anything else is done in the Osac, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. And if anything happens or has to change, people would understand, and if people tell people about things with sincerity, people understand, and they don't trouble. But here it wasn't. Begira, Irailetik aukera izana dana dena planifikatzeko. Aukera izan da antolatzeko, bitartekoak jartzeko, éta ez dugu horrelakorik ikusi. You're out of the race, you're out of the race... I know it's fashionable to offer certainties now. I don't agree with that. I do not agree that certainties must be offered; I believe that no one can offer certainties, no one; and less so in an increasingly changing and uncertain world. What we can offer is honesty, responsibility, planning, resources, collaboration, humility... That's what we can offer. And, above all, try to build among all, build and collaborate to improve our lives. We can do that. Baina zuek hori ére ez duzue nahi izan pandemiaren hasieratik. And then when you're asked for responsibilities, you take it badly. You are opposed to works and responsibilitys; either you are in one or you are in the other. No, this is not white or black, it has many shades, this is gray. When you have to ask for responsibilities, you have to ask for responsibilities. And that doesn't mean we're not willing to cooperate, because we're here. It's all compatible, because we have to be responsible for the charges we're in, and we have to take responsibility. As a teacher says: "The best thing you can do is to make a review. With the flatterers, Rebeka, a criticism, when it is done for the purpose of building forever." Look, everything's getting sad and sad. You can see the Medical Department drifting through. And you have to get the control of the insertion campaign back, so you have to get it back before you can get it out of your hands. And to begin with, this is done with credibility. But the question is: Does the head physician of the health department have any credibility? And that's done with planning. And what's the schedule we're doing? All we've done is copy down Madrid's document. But this takes a great deal of time to determine details and certain things. It's done with transparency. All the detailles in the chemist's campaign were clearly explained, and the villagers are not stupid, they are not stupid, not as if the community and the parliamentary groups were stupid. And if anything is not fulfilled, why it will not be fulfilled with perfect naturalness. I want to think about it, because I'm sure we all want to get in touch with the rest of us, so we can hurry up. That's what I want to think. that we all want the best of the people, to get them out of this state of health as quickly as possible. But with this model of government, this model of government, it is more difficult to accomplish it, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing on the answers, Miss Mist, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u36	Well, a lot to say about everything we've been seeing. However, I do have to admit that it has been a little sluggish that we are living in this Parliament today, with a matter as important as the vaccination campaign, in which so many people have turned their hopes of regaining normalcy. Mr. Rico was talking about their support for what the government has said. Of course, Mr Rico, the position of the PNV and the PSE is understandable. Of course I do. If they were opposed, both parties would put into operation their powerful machinery to demand, better yesterday than today, a detailed vaccination protocol, with specific groups, with a precise vaccination order. But, of course, they are government; they are part of it, and their job is to hide the shortcomings of this government. And this is evidence that everyone is aware of. Better a smokescreen than recognizing in public a deficiency. By the way, so concerned about their self-government, already perging their particular anti-pandemic law, as if this were a battle fought for neighborhoods. Why don't you do that self-government exercise of detailing your particular vaccination protocol to the fullest? The one we depend on in the Basque Country and the one that would perhaps avoid demanas like those lived in Santa Marina and Basurto, with the knowledge and consent of Mrs Sagardui. On the one hand, they're talking about protocol. Yesterday, in the Health Committee, Mrs Sagardui said that she was going to immunize Ertzaintza. I don't think I'm wrong. But at no point did he say what the baramo to follow for this vaccination. Today we have learned that they have said that those over 55 are not going to be vaccinated and that those who have already passed the covid also, because they will be shown to have antibodies. Something that wasn't reported yesterday, either. Mr. Rico, we don't rule in Andalusia, we don't rule in Murcia. We support the PP government, without chairs in return. But now we make our decisions in both communities, okay? On the other hand, also, how not, the PP-Citizens coalition enters the game on this occasion, obsessed with scoring profile. We are not surprised by one of his usual exercises; in this case, amend our motion to the full, to say in other words exactly the same as Vox asks, that it is nothing other than a vaccination protocol developed to the maximum, precise, concrete, clear, public, ordered. Would it not be easier to vote in favour of our proposal, or to have made a compromise amendment? Look, we're going to vote yes to yours too. So, then, you can fool your people and say that Vox joins your proposal, that of PP. Finally, apart from this pathetic re-affirmation that some people are going to discuss one thing, others, I am not talking to you because I am not joining you, that is, something that really surprises me in a parliament in which we all represent the different parts of society, what is really significant about this plenary session is that this Parliament is not going to urge the Basque Government to develop that vaccination protocol. And that, with the necessary complicity of the groups that support it, the Executive will continue to improvise, play with the times, delay the most difficult decisions and sell smoke to a citizen, to whom any of you should treat with more respect, to whom we owe transparency and commitment. That transparency and commitment that remains on the street and so much is missing in this House. This is what's here today. Today they will approve of continuing to do what they are doing with the result they are getting. Today they will vote more opacity, more unpredictability, more improvisation, more inability, more of the same, to achieve the same; zero self-criticism. That the professionals of Osakidetza are on the edge. The fault is the irresponsible citizenship. That the contagion curve grows at full speed or decreases at an exasperately slow pace. It is the fault of the bars and restaurants, their owners and their customers. They continue to arrive at ICU patients, who continue to die victims of COVID-19. It is the fault of the young and not so young, that they skip their perimeter municipal confinement or each portal. The guilt is out there. And thousands of people with the fear of the disease, tens dying every week, thousands of entrepreneurs ruined, thousands of workers unemployed or threatened by unemployment, health and non-health professionals saturated, a desperate society with the only hope of vaccination. And you insist on denying them a clear and precise protocol. To finish, they want to silence us, but they're failing. At least we're getting them to come out in the picture as they really are: bad managers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u37	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u38	...andreason. Well, I have to say, Mrs Martínez, that the truth is that I was surprised by your initiative, because a party that is against the autonomous communities and in favour of centralism and that the competences in health matters are taken away by the central government, the government of Spain, I am surprised that you are urging the Basque government to draw up its protocols. It's just that it's an absolute contradiction. And on the other hand, there are protocols. What we're talking about here is a plan. Because there are protocols. And I remind you of the protocol that was disseminated in health centres to vaccinate the health personnel, of folio and half, which was changed to a few weeks after the facts of irregular vaccinations in Osakidetza were known. Mrs Ubera, we do not have any inconvenience – I have already announced it, and I have... as other spokesmen of my party, we have expressed it this way – in approving any instrument that allows us the Rules of Procedure of this House, and that we have at our disposal, to reach the end and to know the truth in the matter of irregular vaccinations. We don't have a problem. What we want is to know the truth and get to the bottom of the matter. And, Mr. Telleria, that's the strategy of the People's Party. I assure you that this Member is doing her opposition work by contrasting the information, and with absolute rigour, as I imagine you would if you were in the opposition. And to build trust, Mr. Telleria, is to know the truth and get to the bottom of the matter. And if a person, in this case as the counselor, has been credited that he has not told the truth, because he has not told the truth, and above all on the issue – also – of vaccinations and the vaccination process, the management of this government is absolutely terrible, and above all his responsibility is not exercising, when he finds out, an irregular vaccination that takes place on the day 3, 15 days later, and because it is said to be a means of communication, and he attributes it to a mere error of uncoordinatedness, and it is his responsibility to send 100 vials and it is a mere mistake of uncoordinatedness, and the counselor, who is the ultimate responsible of the Department of Health, knows nothing. Or when we talk about the records. How is it possible that irregular, unregistered vaccinations have occurred and that they have been registered at other dates? That's an allegedly criminal act. We are talking about a medical act, which has to be registered at the time it occurs. What if a person doesn't register it? What about those irregular vaccinations, which we'll see in Basurto if they're limited to day 3 only? I mean, how do you not register those days and register other days? Is that what you met later? That, what knowledge has the Department of Health, Osakidetza...? All these issues need to be absolutely clarified. And we have already said: the councilwoman – we believe that, today – is still disqualified because she missed the truth in the parliamentary seat, and because she is the most responsible for the poor management and disastrous management in the vaccination process. It just doesn't work. It is that this does not work, and therefore we must give an absolute turn to these issues. And that turn, for us, is to change the person responsible in the Department of Health, as well as to make sure that the Basque Government has a specific plan. Look, Mr. Rico, you were talking to me about a strategy. Indeed, there is a strategy, but these are recommendations prepared by the (National) Public Health Commission, together with the Autonomous Communities. Yes, but they are criteria, which, by the way, were changed yesterday – they have already changed four times; now we are told that the priority is going to be age. But, it's just that planning... We are defending our powers; it is that we have a government that is demanding competences all day long, and is not able to exercise its powers diligently and adequately. It is that the planning of what is the management of a vaccination process is the responsibility of the autonomous communities, according to the competences we have attributed. And that is what the Basque Government has not done. We don't have a plan to tell us what order each group is in. We don't have a plan. I have told you, and I have pointed out to you in my first speech, that the vaccination of front-line professionals has not been stopped. Yesterday, when I asked the counselor, the 80-year-olds go after a very vulnerable group, which are the large, non-institutionalized third-degree dependents, who are in their homes, people with disabilities; we don't know anything about them. The counselor, to this day, of this collective has said nothing. He didn't say anything. What about the ambulance staff, too? We also don't know when they're going to be vaccinated. What about pharmacists, when we're seeing that in neighboring communities pharmacists have been vaccinated? What's going on in Euskadi? Doesn't this government care about pharmacists? Don't you care about the people who are providing services in ambulances, these health professionals as well? It also does not care about the rest of the areas of the social health area (day centres, psychiatric centers, protected floors...). We don't know anything about this, Counselor. You go from group to group without finishing the previous one. What about the imbalances that exist and the different – it seems – criteria that are being followed in the different health organisations, which lead to 80 % vaccination in one health organisation, and in another it does not reach 4 %? Tell me why in some health organizations there are already vaccinated primary care professionals, and in others it has not been finished with the first line.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u39	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u40	In short, I believe that there is a fact, moreover, that we have just heard, which confirms that the management of this government is not adequate: the Supreme Court has just ratified the violation of fundamental rights in Osakidetza and Ertzaintza because of the lack of protection against COVID, because of the lack of adequate protection equipment, as determined by the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country. It's just been corroborated and ratified by the Supreme Court. The Basque Government has not been up to it. And the Basque Government is still not up to it. And for us, to keep it up and regain credibility not only in Osakidetza...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u41	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u42	...if not in this government, we believe there has to be a change in the Department of Health.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u43	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together Podemos-Nozzerz, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u44	Good. We are not going to go into the field of exaggeration, hyperbole and theatricalization, which sometimes occurs, not only today or not today, but it is true that I was able to see, also in the Committee on Health, at times, to say something that is obvious to us: the planning and management of this vaccination campaign, well, it is not being done properly, and it is not being done with the necessary transparency. And, above all, I will refer to the professionals of Osakidetza, who are the first and the first to have been demanding this question and saying this sort of thing; therefore, above all – and I believe that, by the good image of Osakidetza – what I do not think is to accuse the opposition – it has not been done today with my group, it is true – of trying to weaken Osakidetza, of pretending to damage the image of Osakidetza, when criticism is made of the management of a government. We are right or we are not right in our criticisms, we cannot do that, because Osakidetza are thousands of professionals; Osakidetza is not only the senior management, directly dependent on the Basque Government; there are thousands of professionals, including workers who are not even from Osakidetza, who are from dozens of contracts, subcontracts, such as those we had occasion to hear yesterday, from cleaning up, who also explained to us the unfortunate conditions in which they work, the breaches by the contractor company, the cluster of complaints in Labour Inspection about their conditions, about their safety, etc. So, I think playing with the image of Osakidetza is not a receipt. The irregular vaccinations that took place in these two hospitals – which we all know, which are recognized by the Government, which are recognized by the councillors, for which she has resigned a high office and had to be discontinued another – would not have been possible if there had not been a bad planning and management of the vaccination, which must be changed; because, if we put something on the table, on those two issues, it was that there was a bad planning. And that is what we want with the amendment we have made to the People's Group's initiative, because we think it is evidence, and we do not follow or will follow any strategy on this matter. We think that we have to assume responsibilities, because it is not at all normal for those 500 and peak vaccines to arrive at the hospital of Santa Marina and, at the same time, we are told that planning how and who is vaccinated is well done. We therefore maintain our amendment. And it is true that we are not going to add to certain hyperboles, because the debate that has been given to us today, of course, does not seem to us to have been – I do not know how Mrs Martínez said, what expression she used –... It seems to us that we do have to talk about these issues here whenever it is necessary. "Sperpento", I think that is the expression that Mrs Martínez has used; I have been drawn to my attention because I may like this debate more or less, or we may be more or less shady between positions, but I am the only sperpent I have seen in this House is the presence of the Vox party.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u45	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Coming here to repeat, as rhetorical questions, the same questions that were already answered yesterday and explained, point by point, in the Health Committee, I think it shows that there are those who, rather than wanting answers, the only thing they want is a pulpit to cast a speech, because today questions have been formulated here – and I thank the tone of the representative of Elkarrekin Podemos – that yesterday were answered in the committee, and today they have tended to ask themselves as if those questions were not answered, as if no explanation had been given and as if the difficulties of the vaccination process had not been addressed and how little by little, without creating false expectations, it is being ordered. Look, going up here to say that everything is wrong is as ridiculous as going up here to say that everything is perfectly and that there is no room for improvement in anything and that the situation in Euskadi is idyllic. It's just as ridiculous one thing as the other. And I refuse to contribute to a debate in those terms, because I just think it's an insult to our own intelligence and an insult to the very citizenship we represent. We Socialists are absolutely clear that this government – and any government – must be sensitive to the uncertainties and concerns that may be causing the vaccination process in society. And, as a first objective, this Government must generate confidence in the vaccination process, but this objective, let us not forget, should also be the shared objective of each and every political formation that we sit here. I repeat this; the Socialists say this bluntly: zero understanding, contextualization or justification with those who do not know how to live up to the greatest responsibility they have had the opportunity to manage. Zero. We demand maximum exemplaryness at this unprecedented moment in our history. That is why, in our amendment, we say it loud and clear, and we urge the Basque Government to continue to demand compliance with the vaccination protocols, and to ensure that, if any irregularities are detected, they are clarified and cleared up. That is what is said in our amendment, because that also generates confidence: knowing that if someone jumps the queue will have their punishment. That also generates confidence. And from there, we have to move forward with the vaccination strategy and protocols, which, as you know, exist; today you remember it until Mrs Garrido, because I say it again, is that here, until yesterday, not just a group, a few groups have said that they did not exist. And as you know, in these strategies and protocols it is where vaccination priorities are being developed and set, as we are clarifying the scenarios in which we are, and I have said this before, to the extent that more vaccines are being authorised, to the extent that we know the number of doses that actually reach us across the European Union, and also on the basis of scientific evidence that is being adopted through the European Medicines Agency and that cause certain adaptations, as we saw with regard to removing a new dose of vials in one of the vaccines. And another issue I want to put on the table is the value of co-governance. There has been a very serious programming of the vaccination campaign throughout Spain, and together with all the autonomous communities in the Interterritorial Council, which, in collaboration with the scientists, has developed a strategy, which is being continuously reviewed, to determine the population groups that should be vaccinated at each stage, and that is the value of the agreement, which I believe is what should guide this whole process, and that is the value of responsibility. And if we're talking about political responsibility, I think that's what should be guiding this process. If we are talking about political responsibility, this is the first we should have the 75 parliamentarians in this House, and it is the one we have the representatives of the Socialist Group: building confidence. The strategy and protocols are there; group prioritizations are being done by mutual agreement in Spain, based on scientific criteria, and, day by day, as groups are being ordered to receive the doses, and without generating false expectations, we help to resolve the uncertainties that this process – of course it – generates in the citizenry. And the Socialists believe that the process should continue to be transparent, and we therefore urge the Basque Government to continue to inform the Health Commission of the updates that need to be made according to the types of vaccines and doses available. And I finish: in this whole process, don't hesitate, we will all have the opportunity to portray ourselves. I just hope that all the groups in this House will choose to take on the responsibility that each and every one of us has to create that trust in citizenship. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u47	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u48	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu anderea. Look, Mrs. Garrido, if the biggest problem with communication, in general terms, is that we don't listen to understand, that we listen to answer, yours is worse: you don't listen, you don't want to understand, you don't even want to learn. You just answer it, that's all. I have given him the long reflection on the need to seek collaboration, not to say that of "stop spreading trash; it is not time for trenches", more than anything for not paying a royalty or copyright and because I am not counting things as on social networks, the trash of communication, which is based on headlines, which is the model that this society is acquiring and some politicians like. Look, Mrs. Garrido, yours these days is merciless confrontation with the Basque Nationalist Party, through Councilwoman Sagardui in this case. But this has not taken me by surprise either, because it is not new; its obsession is to do it permanently. Look, when in March and April, when we were confined, I read his statements already criticizing the Basque Government for the lack of forecasting with PPE, masks, which today has repeated it again, I hurled into the time tunnel of the parliamentary web, and I met with a debate in committee in 2011, regarding the purchase that had then been made by Inclán's advisor in 2009, to the thread of a pandemic announced by the WHO that same year by a flu, which in some countries severely affected 2% of the cases and progressed to normal forms of pneumonia. Do you remember? The Inclán councilman bought gloves, vaccines, masks... to cascoporro; from masks 60 million, we had 25 per citizen. Well, in that commission, again dramatizing a fictitious outrage, and the counselor was not present, that already the new advisor was Mr Bengoa, you said exactly – I say exactly so that he does not catch me falsely – "It was an absolutely excessive purchase. We are concerned about waste, that this mismanagement of public resources will not occur again in the future." A portrait, it's a portrait... Because, look, now you're protesting because you haven't been foresight, because you don't get vaccinated the way you want. To everything I've told you before the complexity, right now you just skipped the news that Pfizer seems not good for the South African variant. This forces us to change, and the Counsellor will come next Tuesday and will explain whether or not they have changed after talking to the Interterritorial Council. You cannot know when you or I are going to be vaccinated yet; you cannot know, because, of course, you echo all those statements that come out in the media. I was hallucinated; I did not imagine that there were so many people in this country on the front line and that they were essential: shoemakers, podiatrists, pharmacists, veteri... everyone who has a professional association or a union is claiming to be first line or essential, and those who need it most, who are over 80 years old, as they are not associated or unionized, we have half left there, when they are the ones who need it most, because they surely want to start going out on the street. But all that has to be decided by the health experts; they are the ones who tell us, but with the difficulty there is, because it is complex. Look, I've already told you that the political strategy that follows is yours – I'd miss more – but the one you've been following for a long time is not the best; I've seen you guys go downhill. I've been here ten years, and what they occupied, from here it looks very good what they occupy now. What I am going to say to you, and I am not going to remain calm without telling you, is that I am not going to forget the lack of respect and education that you have been keeping these days with the counselor, with the director of Osakidetza and with practically the entire Department of Health. Look, the rest of my parliamentary group may or may not share that opinion, that in that everyone is very free, but the legislature has just begun, it will be long, and I warn you that I do not forget. If I had said half of what you said to the counselor and the director of Osakidetza, the one I wouldn't be binding on right now from social media. You have sown all the doubts of the world without any basis. You have made an unbearable day pass to a doctor in Basurto, who is also a member of the technical LABI, because yes. When it turns out that no one, and they've told you, no one got vaccinated on days 4 and 5, that that doctor got vaccinated on day 15. And sowing doubts is not a way to lie? Or hanging on Twitter that a lehendakari advisor – referring to that doctor – was vaccinated without reciprocating to her is not a way of lying? Well, apply what you demand of liars. Because it can be critical, but disrespecting and educating people who don't deserve it and who represent the institutions of all, transcends the barriers that are – at least I understand – reasonable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u49	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u50	Well, to begin with, I'd ask those groups that support the government, please, to avoid this discussion and take it seriously. And I would also tell them not to be confused, not to be confused, that it is not a question of identifying enemies or adversaries; it is a question of assuming responsibilities, of fulfilling, of being exemplary, of acting exemplaryly. And yes, this debate cannot go on what everyone thinks; I totally agree on that. It's about data, it's about facts; another issue is that you don't want to see that data, that facts, and look away. That is why I fully agree that trust must be built. And to say this, I would like to remark, that there are two points, two axes: One is the irregularity of the insertion campaign, and all is clear; there is nothing more to say or to add. The health department has taken no part in it, and the government has protected it. The chief physician of health, who has lost all credibility, has lied, has denied what has happened, and has asked for information. That's one. The other axis, the other problem, the management of the insertion campaign, the one that needs to be improved. You stay, you sort, you point... he began, pushing aside the usual management of headlines and media. But it is plain, from the conduct of the Medical Department, that it will be difficult to obtain credit and confidence. Hence the chief physician of health ought to be an example, and to apply to others what he demands. In the health department, we must be more than ever the whole person, in order to end the standard of the usual administration of the Medical Department, must end with this model of government, and begin to recover the good name of the Osar. In association with members of the community, and in order to win the legality of politics, of institutions, and of public politics.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Yes, Mr. Rico. Here...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u52	... Now, yes. Since the two texts for the vote are still in place, the Socialist Group would withdraw the amendment to the Vox motion, leaving the one that we have subscribed to in the People's Party, which also bears that point and is more complete.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u53	All right, all right, thank you. Okay, well, knowing that, since the discussion has ended, we'll put it to the vote first, with the original text of Mrs. Martíne, the Greyeña's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 44; 75; the supporters 1, 68; the contrary, the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u54	So it's not accepted. Next, we'll vote for Mrs Garrido Knör's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly, 44. 75; the supporters 7; the contrary, 41; the abstations, 27; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u55	So it's not accepted. Together, Podemos-Nozzer is going to vote for the full rights of the crew. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 44; 75; the supporters are 6; the contrary is 42; the abscesssions are 27; the whites are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u56	So it's not accepted. And finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the U.S.A. patriots in the whole area that the teams present. We can vote. (Pause)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u57	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "The question of the election of Venezuela is the same as that of the Parlamentary Socialists and Euscalaists. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Basque Socialists have a word to introduce and defend the initiative. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u58	jauna: President, ladies and gentlemen. We bring the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups back to this Chamber in Venezuela. With this initiative on the situation in Venezuela, it is clear that we do not bring anything new or original; neither do we bring good news, nor do we even bring news. What we're going to say here is known and known. What we are bringing today is the will, the determination, to draw attention, to raise the voice, to prevent the forgetfulness of the very grave situation that citizens in Venezuela live and suffer, and also those who have had to flee their country. Venezuela is a country where human rights are violated daily, where extrajudicial executions, arbitrary arrests, unlawful killings are carried out by the security forces, where repression is carried out to silence dissent, where freedom of assembly and expression is violated. Venezuela is a country where food, medicine, medical supplies are scarce... A country that lacks water, electricity... A country where there are fewer and fewer people every day, because almost five million people have had to leave it. Venezuela is international news, for its tortures with electric shocks, asphyxiation with plastic bags, drowning drills, sexual violence... This is what awaits the detainees in Venezuela. In Venezuela there are instruments created to protect democratic rights; there are Prosecutors, courts, ombudspersons... But, indeed, they do not act, with respect to human rights violations, and if any attempt is made, they are replaced by military courts. Journalists are persecuted in Venezuela; the press is censored; cyberattacks are multiplied; human rights organizations are threatened and persecuted... And to perpetuate this situation, elections were held on December 6. Elections without guarantees of the free participation of political parties and with persecution of opposition leaders. Elections involving less than 25%. Elections that are not representative of the democratic will, due to the lack of political pluralism. But this comes from behind, and that is why it is also necessary to raise the voice, and to multiply the complaints as we are doing today in this Parliament. Nicolás Maduro is declared in usurpation of executive powers since January 15, 2019. A presidency that he fraudulently acceded to after the May 2018 elections, which were boycotted by the opposition and not recognized by the international community, for lack of democratic guarantees. Now, once again, the European Union is again forced not to recognize the latest elections and to demand a political solution with the participation of Venezuelan authorities and leaders, which articulate a transition process, a peaceful, inclusive, transparent process, which recovers democracy, freedoms, rights, the economy, basic supplies, social rights... This is the interest of this initiative: to contribute to the encouragement of the international community to bring solidarity and hope to the citizens of Venezuela. Let the citizens of Venezuela know that, from the Basque Parliament, we support them in their goal of restoring democracy and regaining all their rights and freedoms.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u59	Thank you, Mr Price. Euneraries, Mr Aguirre, are yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u60	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Sometimes, the rhythms of the Basque Act and international policy don't agree. And that's what happens to us here today with this illegal proposal. We introduced him in December after the election, but it was not possible to argue here until today. But, after all, it's never too late to denounce a dictatorship, and what we now have in Venezuela is a dictatorship. Venezuela has been in a dramatic state for years, a real social and economic emergency which has been increased by serious violations of human rights. The organisation of the American States and the Union of the United Nations have long since accused him, and we have frequently accused him of this Chamber. This state has forced millions of people from Venezuela into exile and in other countries to seek refuge. And Venezuela is now a state of error, and can't do it, can't do it! To ensure the slightest conditions of well-being to its inhabitants. In this country poverty is increasing, and the poorest classes are the ones passing the worst. Those who are wrong are poor. And I want to emphasize this here. Venezuela stopped publishing official statistics years ago, and all the data we know are estimates of international agencies, based on own indicators. What is clear is that in Venezuela there is excessive hyperinflation, a dramatic depletion of medicines, of basic hygiene products, of basic foods, which place the population in a tragic situation. In Venezuela, there is no water, there is no food, there is no electricity, and I have said this more than once in this House, there is violence everywhere. The Venezuelan population is bearing, as it can, one of the largest common crimes in the world. But it is also that the security forces led by Nicolás Maduro systematically violate human rights. According to the OAS, between 2014 and 2020, from 2014 to 2020!, more than 18,100 murders have been perpetrated by state security forces and paramilitary groups related to Nicolás Maduro. That's an average of ten murders a day. Towards the comparison, in the neighbouring village, in the Colombian area, there are systematic violations of human rights. And since the peace agreements were signed, 250 ex-FARC fighters and 400 social leaders have died. And these cruel things must be denounced and condemned. I think it's perfect. But in Venezuela the proportion is thirty times larger, and in this case there is no accusation heard on the side of some people. 30 veces mayor en Venezuela, las violaciones sistemáticas derechos humanis y satisfiedinatos. In addition to all this, in 2018 and 2019, 15,501 arbitrary arrests took place. And 724 people have disappeared, who don't know if they're in DISIP's dungeons, Venezuela's secret police, or in a ditch with a shot in the head. And, in this terrifying context, Nicolás Maduro dared to call an election to the National Assembly on 6 December. The opposition parties that make up the Bureau of Democratic Unity decided unanimously not to participate in these elections. Firstly, because of the irregularities in planning and, above all, because of the complaint that seven political parties were involved in the judicial process. I would like to provide some data to try to understand the situation of the people of this country. Between 2013 and 2020, the country's economic activity (i.e. GDP) fell by 92.4%. Venezuela has been in hyperinflation for 40 months, from thousands of 100 a year, and in accumulation of millions of 100 in this period. In 1960 Venezuela was the first country in Latin America certified by the WHO, the World Health Organization, for having eradicated malaria from most of its territory. Well, today, in 2021, we are worse than 80 years ago, because there have been 600,000 cases... The world's largest increase in cases, with 600,000 people affected by malaria. And another issue: here we are witnessing a systematic destruction of the indigenous populations of the Amazon, with the decommissioned exploitation of gold and diamond mines. These are real blood diamonds, and it is basically Russian and Chinese companies that are carrying this overexploitation, to try to repay – I imagine – the loans they made to Chávez and Nicolas Maduro, basically for the purchase of weapons. In a country that is one of the largest gas reserves in the world, 40% of the population cooks with wood. The average monthly wage for 80% of the population is $10 per month. And retirees charge, on average, $2 a month. 51% of households are in structural poverty. Since we have been talking at the previous point of health, it has to be said that, in Venezuela, the national health system has been bankrupt for a long time. There's no medicine even in hospitals. Life expectancy has fallen three and a half years, and this is only true in countries in war situations. While Venezuela in the year 98, when Chávez won the elections for the first time, it produced 3 million barrels of oil a day, today, 20 years later and being Venezuela one of the largest reserves in the world of oil, Venezuela currently produces 400,000 barrels a day. For all this, what we can do here is denounce the situation in Venezuela, and look at what contradiction, because recently Gustavo Pulido, who here hardly anyone knows, declared: "One of the few companies in the country that has grown up is the stock market". And Gustavo Pulido is the president of the Caracas Stock Exchange and, in addition, Maduro is making dollars for the Venezuelan economy. The only solution to curb this disastrous humanitarian situation is for Maduro to leave the country and leave, and for free and democratic elections to be held in Venezuela. The European Union declared, the day after the elections on 6 December, that these elections do not represent the will of Venezuelans, because the minimum democratic standards have not been met. And therefore we do not accept the outcome of these illegal elections, and we wish to denounce the dictatorial regime of Maduro in this House again. And we demand protection from all the institutions to ensure a peaceful transition to Venezuela and return to justice, to freedom and democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u61	Thank you, Mr Aguire. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the popular Basque Group, representative of the Ciudadans, Mr. Iturgaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. We'll give my team the Popular Party and Ciudadnos (Eus' Popular Party and Ciudadans) a taste for this other proposition, as the Eucobertians and the Sociists of Eukal. And we'll do something like that, because in the previous laws, the same proposal as the Poptulars were presented. And I would also like to remind you that at this moment we will present a correction to add, and then I will explain why we have proposed a certain thing in this proposal. But I would like to repeat: such a thing has been said by the spokes of EAJ and the Socialist Party in this tribe that the elections in Venezuela were not free, and we must also remember that there is a dictatoric regime in Venezuela at this moment, and in that dictatorial regime, is Mr. Praente Maduro of this regime. That is why we are going to support this – as I told you before – proposal that you have made from the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, and we have included an amendment that, I think, is necessary to talk about it and, moreover, I would like it to be approved because it is important, so I will explain below. But before the elections, I think it is important to remember that what is being applied in Venezuela and what is happening in Venezuela is, simply, that from those dusts came or came these muds. You have to do a short X-ray – let me, and I will be brief – of Venezuela in the last few decades. A rich country, as other people remembered in this rostrum; a rich, wonderful country, with natural resources, oil, miners, gas, that is, we all remember or some will remember the famous give me two, in Miami, of many Venezuelans who went from Venezuela to Miami, with the wealth that Venezuela had, and they seemed so cheap what there was in the United States, in Miami, who said give me two, give me two. Well, there is that Venezuela in bankruptcy today, ruined economically and ruined in freedoms and ruined in respect for human rights, since Salvador Chávez arrived, in quotes, to fix everything in Venezuela. Chávez – who must be remembered, military coup player who made an astonishment and failed in his astonishment against Carlos Andrés Pérez, with his lights and shadows, of course, but democratically elected by Venezuelan citizenship – Chávez created, after that astonishment, a political party, and when he came to power, changed absolutely everything: the Constitution, democracy, and became a narcodictura, which is what Venezuela is today. Because when he came to power, he came to control all the organs and areas of power, that is, the Legislature, the Executive, the Judiciary. He came to power to control the media – it will sound to some, won't it?, what I'm saying; in the last few days, here we can also bring him to our country.... control the media and expel journalists or journalists who disappeared from Venezuela, control and place two servants of the regime at the head of the National Electoral Council – I know them very well, two harpies, Tibisay Lucena, and now Indira Alfonzo – to control, as I said, and manipulate all the elections and referendums held in Venezuela during this time. And, in addition, eliminate, in the Putin style, any opponent who presents himself at the front or at the front of the opposition. And here are the cases, of Mr Rosales, of Mr Capriles, of Mr Leopoldo López, of the Socialist International, now of Mr Guaidó, of my good friend the mayor of Caracas, Mr Ledesma, and now his faithful squire Maduro, who, after appearing to him the famous little bird of Chávez, follows the same steps that his predecessor took. Well, in the face of this gloomy panorama of Venezuela, we arrived on 6 December at the last elections. Maduro called for spurious elections or fake elections, as it is now said, and, therefore, Maduro – it has to be said – is a usurper in power. Fortunately, no one sensible, no one sensible!, in the international community of democrats, recognizes the falseness and vice of origin of the fraudulent elections of 6 December last. And for this reason, the defence and honesty of democratic values advise, in order not to fall into a vacuum of power, the constitutional recognition of the 2015 National Assembly and its President Guaidó, as we have presented the People's Party and Citizens Group in this non-law proposal, so that it is also approved, because of the importance it has. Because, until new elections are recognized, transparent, inclusive, homologable and with the full participation of all candidates, with a neutral electoral referee, it will not be possible – without any doubt – to talk about free and democratic elections in Venezuela. Unfortunately, I'm already warning all of you. I warn you of one thing: this is not going to happen. It's never gonna happen with Maduro in front. Because, contrary – ladies and gentlemen – to what many naive people think, the Bolivarian regime will never negotiate a democratic exit, because it knows that they would always lose free and transparent elections. And I say more, the Maduro regime has stolen so much, has delinqueted so much, has drug trafficking so much, that the only possible way out for that regime is before the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague. The time for dialogue was run out with Maduro. And see that there have been long and extended attempts, with the intervention and intermediation of the Holy See, or of the three former Presidents of the Dominican Republic, or the dialogues of Barbados, where Norway promoted them, or the International Contact Group; we recently remembered Borrell, sending a semi-Landish mission to Caracas last October. Result of all that I'm telling you, of all those dialogue processes, none. No, absolutely no. And it has to be said, the regime only seeks to buy time, and a certain international legitimacy, when it should only be considered a pariah between the concert of democratic nations. Ladies and gentlemen, Venezuela is not a country at war. And the exodus that has generated and generated the economic crisis, the famine, the social crisis, the health crisis, the humanitarian crisis, is reaching more than five million people, hundreds of thousands of them displaced and exiled, and with even more dramatic prospects – we all know – it is possible. Similar figures, look at the civil war in Syria, and to which a number of victims are added – and we must remember this also in Venezuela – of several hundred thousand, the result of the violence instigated and practiced by the Chavista State, as the United Nations has said, accusing the Maduro regime, from the United Nations, from the United Nations, of having committed crimes against humanity. Look! I'm done, Your Honor. And as Venezuela's anthem lyrics say, this concludes: "Glory to the brave people that the yoke launched." That is why, from the Basque Parliament and from all the instructions of this country, of Spain, or of the European Union, we will do our utmost to help all those Venezuelans, all those good Venezuelan democrats, so that, without any doubt, the yoke of opposition from this unfortunate Bolivarian government of Maduro will be removed. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u63	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u64	Yeah. Thank you, ma'am. Well, I think that in some things we can agree, and one of them is in the first part of Mr Prieto's speech, because it is not a new topic and they bring it in the same terms, as if nothing had changed in Venezuela's reality. And, moreover, they bring it back in terms in which, once read, you know, you feel, that there is no interest in wanting to reach a broad agreement on this issue. And since I think it is no surprise, we will vote no to the non-law proposal. Venezuela has been living, for at least five years, a serious political crisis, a serious economic crisis, which further exacerbates the political crisis. A crisis that has its origin, first, in the structural characteristics of the Venezuelan economy, in the monoculture of oil and in the price crisis that took place a few years ago. And that crisis is exacerbated by the economic sanctions and the embargo imposed unilaterally, and in addition illegally, by the United States and also by the European Union. Because, since Mr Iturgaiz has spoken a lot about international law, I remind him that sanctions can only be adopted by the United Nations Security Council, which has not adopted any. With regard to the situation of human, economic, social and cultural rights, because we are often all forgotten, we have expressed our rejection of any human rights violations in Euskadi, Spain, Venezuela and anywhere in the world. On the issue of elections, which was the focus of the non-law proposal, the elections were convened by the National Electoral Council. Nicolás Maduro has no power, no capacity, to summon or set the date. And it is also done when the five years of the previous president's term in the National Assembly expires, Mr. Juan Guaidó. Parties that have wanted to participate in these elections have participated. On the part of the Chavista sectors, the Grand Patriotic Pole, the United Socialist Party of Venezuela, and also the critical Chavista opposition, led by the Communist Party of Venezuela. And, on the part of the opposition, those who wanted to participate have participated, as has been Democratic Action, Advanced Progressive and another tens of parties. Abstaining, very large; a participation of 32% cannot be a good thing either in Venezuela or anywhere in the world. What, in our opinion, does that participation reflect? A political crisis over time, a crisis of government legitimacy, a very large crisis of legitimacy also by the opposition – by the way, very divided – a social exhaustion by the economic crisis, and also a abstention that also includes those who, unfortunately, have had to leave Venezuela because of the economic situation, which is between one and four million people. And, if it weren't little, in all this context, obviously the coronavirus will also have influenced something, as happened in our elections, and as it has recently happened in Catalonia. But we are not unaware of elections – for example, in Portugal, the presidential elections – with a participation of 38%. Or we do not know European elections, with participation figures of 29% in Croatia, 30% in Portugal and just 20% in the Czech Republic. They reflect these levels of participation problems of political systems, but at no time do we not know about electoral processes. Electoral observation. They've gone who they've wanted. The European Union was invited, and Mr Borrell – who, by the way, has been on a rather bad footing for a few months – said no. But there have been 1,500 electoral observation experts and 300 representatives of political, social or institutional parties from 34 countries. There's the data. Of course, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, although we have no clear authority to do so, but political legitimacy, we recognize the National Assembly elected in the December elections, just as we recognized the outgoing National Assembly five years ago and which gave rise to the presidency of the National Assembly of Mr. Juan Guaidó. Just as we recognize the 2018 elections, where, against another three or four candidates, with the most outstanding Henri Falcon and Bertucci, won Nicolás Maduro, the elections. And I was there as an international European observer. And then we can recognize and we can stop recognizing the National Assembly, but I would invite you to go through the Embassy of Venezuela in Spain and see who is appointed there, who appoints it and who has the effective power. The rest are fireworks. Moreover, they will not be able to reproach this coalition or historically my United Left political formation that has not recognized each and every election held in Venezuela before and after 1998. And also, by the way, not to condemn the coup d'état of 2002, which overthrew President Chávez for 48 hours. I think that all the groups in this House cannot say the same. And yours, Mr Iturgaiz, by the way, less, because Mr Aznar was an active participant in that coup d'état. Moreover, we reject all the violent ways that a sector – a sector, because it is not the entire opposition – of the Venezuelan opposition has done to overthrow the government by violent means. And, of course, we condemn the actions of Mr Leopoldo López. They speak in their initiative of talking to everyone for a transition, from which, by the way, they expressly exclude, on their initiative, the majority force – I speak in terms of political formations – of the Government. Yeah, yeah, they do. Rare way to talk to everyone. We and we, what we have been defending and what we continue to defend, for a long time, is a broad dialogue to reach agreements, recognition of the other – something that does not usually happen by a very broad sector of the opposition, not by the entire opposition – agreements to improve the living conditions of the... of Venezuelans too. But forget, forget, once in a while that old tale of the orchestrated transitions from the outside. It's not going to happen, it's not going to happen, it's not going to happen, it's not going to happen. And he was talking about sanctions. I'll have little time to talk about it. I say again that they are totally illegal sanctions, which violate international law. But you, on your initiative and not the People's Party-Citizens, make no mention of them either. Sanctions are critical to helping the State's fiscal revenues to grow from $50 billion to $500 million in one year. And this I'm saying... Mr Iturgaiz made a reference to the United Nations, without mentioning the report. I am going to quote the report by Mrs Alena Douhan, the UN Special Rapporteur recently in Venezuela, in which she says that the United States measures, which include, for example, freezing the resources of the Venezuelan people that are in accounts in the United States, of PDVSA, which is the total blockade of the economy by the United States in 2019, or giving Juan Guaidó control over Venezuelan assets and money in the United States – by the way, nobody knows where that money is; nobody knows it – and imposing sanctions on gold. Well, people can say, "Bah, gold isn't important." But the following: impose sanctions on the import of food. What are the objectives of sanctions prohibiting the import of food into a sovereign State? For, of course, the confidence of the people of Venezuela must be destroyed and they must have worse conditions, so that they want to change the Government. That's what you're doing from the outside. And that is what the United States and the European Union have done. And even more serious: more than 10 billion dollars from the Venezuelan State blocked in international accounts, which has requested them with an express destination in addition to the COVAX Fund, to buy vaccines and remain blocked. And this obviously affects the military programme, the programme I do not know what, but also the social programmes that benefit the people after all. And a point on this. Do you know the only vaccines... or do you know what are the only vaccines that are not in any Latin American country right now? Those of the European Union and those of the United States. Do you know the only vaccines that are being distributed right now in Latin America? The Russians, the Chinese and one made in India. And from March, the Cuban. Watch out for the geopolitical change you're not seeing. Because this is not just left-wing governments, it is not progressive governments; it is right-wing governments that are, of course, changing geopolitically. And do you also know who denounces the sanctions? Well, Venezuelan Confebask, Fedecameras. Fedecamaras, an organization that promoted the 2002 coup d'état, is denouncing that – and I have it here – "U.S. sanctions raise the costs of Venezuelan companies, and prevent us from trading with companies abroad." Therefore, we cannot talk about dialogue if on the other hand, on the part of the United States and the European Union, sanctions are imposed on a country that is sovereign, we like it more or we like it less. They will never see in our formation the imposition of unilateral sanctions on any country. I therefore reiterate our appreciation of the elections in December, our most robust condemnation of the sanctions and also of those who promote them. If something is clear, and after these elections even more, it is that Guaidó's strategy, that of climbing a fence and proclaiming himself president, has failed; that the opposition has three different strategies and that they themselves will have to be ordered; that we also support the opposition that is presented to the elections and the opposition, such as that of Enrique Capriles, who is also willing to engage in dialogue with the Government; that we denounce the looting of the money of all Venezuelans, which has been carried out by President Guaidó, of the money that was in accounts abroad. And I reiterate again our call to dialogue, our call to reconstruction, a call that we also share and a work that we support from President Zapatero, a militant of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, who signs this non-law proposal, who has participated as mediator, watchman, of the elections and also promote dialogue. In those terms, in dialogue and reconstruction, we will find ourselves. In everything else, don't count on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u65	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Protect the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to begin to read the points brought to this full meeting by the opposition groups without intending to usurp your work: a legal proposal, which changes the law of regulating the game; a motive to take responsibilities due to irregular insertion, such as a health strategy to revolutionize the epidemic state after Christmas, such as the production of a rescue complex sector caused by COVID-19; as is the case for autonomists' contributions... And this second law of legislation, which is represented by groups supported by the government, is not by grafting, it is not by the COVID, it is not unemployment, it is not to speak of poverty, but of Venezuela. When two and a half months have elapsed since the elections of it have passed in the Basque Country and in this pandemic world, we have come to talk about Venezuela, not to introduce Venezuela, to promote the economy of Venezuela, in terms which no one at the present moment does not plan, at times, and in manner, the proposal which you have made. It's anakronism. Be careful; we don't mean that Venezuela isn't to talk about, but it's very important to examine intentions and modes, and we've got serious doubts today, considering the legal contents. The question which PP brought in at three o'clock in the legislature has been brought by P.P., and perhaps this time you wanted to be the first; And we would like to remark that the anacronism of your proposition is so great, and the tone of the just, that it is so deconctive, and that the majority of your observations are so absolute that we have not given too much time to this discussion. For disputes are necessary to take place in a plenon, and to shew divers postures, it is our business; but it requires a builder of the position, and ye, with this proposition, want to remove all the bridges. No proposal to the peace environment required by the people of Venezuela, can be made to improve the social conditions. Do you really think that these five points you brought will help you with something? If they were to be obeyed, what condition would the people of Venezuela be in? Rechaza los comcios; no reconoce el aresultado; denuncia la dictura o la deriva diceil; llama a todas fuerzas maliciles yciales, well, y ad aposto a todas las instientianes. What proposal did you bring us here? And no longer just because of the historical ties that unite Euskal Herria with Venezuela, from Euskal Herria Bildu we believe – and from deep internationalism – that it is up to us to accompany, to facilitate and to put in the hands of the people of Venezuela all our readiness to solve the multidimensional crisis that affects all humanity and also the people of Venezuela; because we are very concerned about the effects of the criminal political sanctions imposed on some countries by Venezuela. The United States has been implementing sanctions against Venezuela since 2005; but, above all, the situation began to worsen since 2015, when Obama declared Venezuela a "threat to national security." In 2017, after Trump's arrival in the U.S. administration, the economic sanctions and embargo have become tougher. Among the banks of the United States, the United Kingdom and Portugal, assets frozen in Venezuela amount to $6 billion. In the name of human rights, you deny Venezuela the ability to use its own assets. And you dare come here to talk about the economic situation, of hunger, of Venezuelan migration, when you are standing together to defend America's cruel policy, that of Trump; and Trump is already gone. Are you going to pursue the same policy? This cannot continue with this; other policies are required to work. We all know that the situation in Venezuela is extremely severe, but the only solution of this situation is democracy, independence of countries, confession, and human help-a real humanitarian help. Mrs Alena Douhan, the special rapporteur who has already been mentioned only by Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita – and, curiously neither by the PNV nor by PSE nor PP – in her preliminary report drawn up on 12 February 2021, cites concrete proposals to start turning around the dramatic situation in Venezuela, and would like to end these, constructively. She claims that the sanctions imposed on Venezuela, its citizens and businesses affect people in and outside Venezuela, both in the public and private sectors, while low-income persons, women, children, persons with functional diversity or chronic or serious diseases are the most affected, with respect to the whole field of human rights, including civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights. It reminds the parties of their obligation under the Charter of the United Nations and the principles of sovereign equality and peaceful settlement of international disputes, and calls upon all States to review and lift targeted sanctions in accordance with the principles of international law. It urges the Governments of the United Kingdom, Portugal and the United States and the banks concerned to defrost the assets of the Central Bank of Venezuela to purchase medicines, vaccines, food, medical equipment and other essential goods to ensure humanitarian needs. She stressed that the Government of Venezuela approved this proposal. And I want to finish doing it for a built-up proposal. It's time to build bridges. And your proposal today is a long way from here. Let us all contribute to improving the situation in Venezuela, with proposals. We're asking you to work with the teams for that measure. We can build together if we like. Yesterday, at the committee, we easily succeeded in obtaining an agreement on the sub-rational rights of human rights in Chiapas: calling each other, exchanging e-mails, considering what we're saying in the show... You too, if you wanted it, you could. We ask that we all be able to adopt a resolution that promotes more democracy, more sovereignty, more justice and more freedom for Venezuela, for and from Venezuela, and for all. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. We'll take the answers turn. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u68	Yes, Madam President. Well, Madam President, from the seat, because I only want to make two points. Everything we wanted to say is on the initiative. At this point, it was a question of drawing attention to a situation that persists, and that is very hard and difficult for Venezuela. And I think we've already done that. It is a question of not forgetting this situation, and that Venezuelans have the encouragement of the international community, and we are included in it as the Basque Parliament. But I did want to make two points: One to Mr Iturgaiz, in connection with his amendment. Indeed, we have not considered the amendment, because it is true that Mr Guaidó has played a prominent role at a time of this long process of deterioration of the political situation in Venezuela. But I believe that today the situation is in other terms, and it is in terms of the European Union resolution, when it says that the European Union is already calling on the authorities and leaders of Venezuela, to put forward the interests of the Venezuelan people, and to join without delay in initiating a transition process led by Venezuela, in order to give a peaceful, inclusive and lasting solution to the political crisis. Well, let's say today the terms on how to make that transition are more open; they don't have a definite or clear protagonist. What is intended is for all the authorities and leaders and political groups in Venezuela to resolve it. And, precisely, that also allows for clarification or an answer, if you will, to Mr Martínez. This is what the European Union resolution says, and we also say this on our initiative: we want dialogue to be built between all of us. And it specifies this, as much as the other: we want it to be built among Venezuela's political forces, and we want it to be done in Venezuela. Therefore, there is no idea that dialogue will be imposed or that someone will occupy the space of protagonistism that belongs to Venezuelans in their future. In our claim, precisely, I believe that the fundamental element, beyond drawing attention to the dramatic situation that exists there, the most substantive of our position, of our declaration, is this: to work, to support, to add efforts, so that, from Venezuela itself, with its authorities and political forces, we can build this transition process, which leads to free and democratic elections, and which can enable the country to be rebuilt politically, economically, socially, institutionally, and to end the violation of human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u69	Thank you, Mr Price. Euneraries, Mr Aguirre, are yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u70	Yes, thank you, President. Mr Martínez Zatón wondered where our will for broad agreement was. But I do not know where a comprehensive agreement is needed to condemn a dictatorship and systematically denounce human rights violations. Nor can it be blamed on third countries, when the regime in Venezuela has been in power for 21 years, it has had absolutely everything in its hands, the institutions, the oil barrel at 147 dollars in the time of Chávez, $147 dollars the oil barrel!, and it has not fixed a single structural problem in Venezuela. Look, Venezuela is in a real social and economic emergency, which you can't deny. And I think, once again, that I asked or thought here, I don't understand how you can defend a dictator like Nicholás Maduro. I don't think about it. a political party, who is supposed to be progressive, should be in favor of a satrape. I don't get it in my head! And you know Maduro doesn't respect human rights, he doesn't respect freedom of expression, political opposition parties are prohibited. Venezuela has plunged him into a complete chaos, and his inhabitants are in misery. I really tell you: I am surprised that parties or coalitions like EH Bildu and Elkarrekin We can, self-define or, supposedly, are left-wing and in favor of the people of social progress, do not dare condemn Maduro. The Venezuelan people do not have to take care of themselves, and the Maduro regime, they know perfectly well, does not respect human rights. Nik hemen ekarri nahi nuke, gogora ekarri nahi dut, Etxebarrieta andreak duela hilabete batzuk –eta ez dakit zer kontestuan – egindako hitzartze bat, ez? Alluding to a comment by Roosevelt – I think the comment is apocryphal, but well –, supposedly, Roosevelt would have told you, talking about Anastasio Somoza, the great dictator, the first dictator of the Somoza family, who was a son of p, but he was our son of p. Well, it seems to me that Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu are going through the same thing, that Nicolás Maduro is a corrupt, he is a dictator, but he is his son of p. And this to me is a double measuring rod, a double moral; I believe that, certainly, also hypocrisy, when it comes to condemning a dictator, and I believe that there is also hypocrisy, because they can convince us of any human rights violation anywhere in the world, and we will support them. But you don't dare do the same thing backwards. And this is not a Bolivarian Revolution; this is an insult to Simon Bolivar. Chávez won the 1998 elections because he made promises of social inclusion, inclusive democracy, respect for social and human rights, but he deceived, deceived and betrayed his people. And Nicolás Maduro I don't even tell them anymore. Since 2014, repression has become ever greater and, of course, as its model of progress, as we are not going to go very far together. Today, Maduro resists, but does not rule the country. And if it is thanks to the military that it has placed in all the important companies of the country, companies that have great capacity to spend and, above all, the military, great capacity to steal. They're looting Venezuela. I don't know how long it will take Maduro to disappear and leave power; what I can tell you is that Venezuela will take decades to recover and recover a minimum of social welfare, a minimum of economic well-being, before this can be possible. Eta lehenbailehen lortu behar duguna da Madurok Venezuela ustea, zergatik Madurorekin ez da possibizioa, éta guk nahi dugu trantsizio baketsua, nahi ditugu hautskunde libreak, gardenak, alderdi politico guztiekin; Martínez Zatón jauna, alderdi politico guztiekin. Baina Madurok hori ezin du onartu. And that is why we call on this Basque Parliament and all political, social and political forces, both in Venezuela and in Europe, to support a peaceful transition and to respect human rights. And as for the amendment of the People's Party, I must simply tell you that we believe that it is the people of Venezuela who have to decide who will be their president, not us from here, but we support Mr Guaidó's role as opponent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u71	Thank you, Mr Aguire. "Essal Popularo-Ciudadnos, Mr. Iturbá, your word is yours."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u72	Legebiltzarburu andrea, you're gonna let me start with a... with a comment to the representative of Bildu. You said that... you were talking about the subject of Venezuela that we were bringing here, that this subject of Venezuela surprised you, even bothers you; I think it bothers you that we talk about Venezuela. Instead, here, you, like other political groups, with all due respect, logically, here you can bring or we can talk about the Sahara, Tibet, Kurdistan or other places on the planet, and you have no packaging of bringing initiatives on those places, and applaud you, in joyful birbilette, those proposals. Listen, because the globe is very large; therefore, you too will have to understand that here we can remember what is happening in Venezuela, when, moreover, there is a lack of freedoms and human rights in Venezuela, like the one that is currently being lived. And to my friend Mr. Martínez Zatón, who was beginning to tell us that the crisis in Venezuela is the oil crisis. Man, but don't cheat on the loner. It is a crisis, and it is a crisis of freedoms, as her partner told her, and of human rights. And it is a crisis of freedoms and human rights, because, if there was an oil crisis alone, what role would then, at this time, have countries like Norway, Canada, the United States, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, etc., etc. It does not affect them: only, curiously, Venezuela. It will not be for political, economic, social responsibility... of his friends who are ruling in Venezuela. I would also like to say something that is fundamental to me. Look, you're lucky, and me, you and I, from the antipodes in that speech, we're both lucky that we've come to a rostrum, to this rostrum, and that when we make a speech on this matter, we're going to be able to leave both of us with total peace or normality and have a boogie, and that doesn't happen in Venezuela, my friend. And you know it. That is the big problem, because there are some who, by making this speech that you do here or I do here in this rostrum, in Venezuela, especially, logically, in the opposition, they are beaten, chased, made impossible life or killed; they are killed, for going against the regime. And tell Julio Borges, María Corina Machado, leaders of the opposition, who, by leading the opposition and simply by saying what they think, are crushed in Venezuela, as are so many people who are in the opposition in Venezuela. That's what I've been through. I too have been, on many occasions – I don't know how many you have been –; I have been an electoral observer on many occasions in Venezuela. I do not move in the Chacao or Chacaito mercies; we have gone to Petare – you too; I am glad – because we have to see the difficulties and the diversity of Caracas, and it has Venezuela, or Cotiza, to set an example or several examples. And I have the honor – and I have to say so – of having a "decoration" of Chávez, which is that I was detained and expelled from Venezuela; days before my colleague Luis Herrero – he was worse off; they sent him to São Paulo, because it was the first plane to leave Caracas – to me was that of Madrid, and they told me not to enter that country again, simply, to say the things I say here today, simply for those things, to criticize the regime. That is to say, look – we had at the time the European Union's endorsement and we were caught by the European Union – look at the remaining ones in Venezuela, how can the remaining ones in Venezuela be spending time? I also want to say to you: you told me earlier about the money that no one knows where it is. Of course, look, you'll know where certain money and certain gold is. Ask your friend Delcy Rodriguez, who walks around with suitcases, with Venezuelan gold, at airports very close, very close to here; no, no, yes, yes, you point there, already, well, [[He made a sign with his finger]] - No, no, no, But you will also know; you can ask Mrs. Delcy Rodriguez. Look, I want to tell you, this is an approach – Mr Martínez Zatón, both of you – where the blocks that support – you think a little bit –... Look, in the bloc that is supporting the opposition, in the bloc that is against Maduro, there is the European Union, the United Kingdom, Japan, Canada, Australia, the United States, Biden, eh – also Trump's, but also Biden's; you are also supported by Belarus, Iran, Nicaragua, Cuba, the satraps... That is the difference, and that brings what he said at the beginning: between respecting human rights and freedoms in a country and not respecting them and fearing, crushing and annihilating Venezuelan society, as the Maduro regime is currently doing. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u73	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Together, Podemos-Nekership representative has the word. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u74	Thank you. Well, Mr. Prieto, why don't we support this? Well, because you are talking about political transition; we are talking about dialogue and political agreement, about dialogue and political agreement, and about dialogue and economic agreement, like the one that, by the way, the Patronal is doing now, and the Government is doing with the Patronal there in Venezuela. But do you imagine that Vladimir Putin had made a written statement citing "the Spanish State must make a process of dialogue that moves towards a peaceful and political transition to the Catalonian conflict?" What would you have said? Let him get involved in his affairs, let him not interfere in Spain's internal politics; surely they would have said that. And, in addition, they are terms that are not used as a bucket, but are used in a conscious way. We are and will help in all the processes of dialogue, okay, that are needed, but never with preconceived ideas or preconceived plans from outside, that lead to transitions that suppose... Mr Aguirre said "no, Venezuelans are the ones who have to elect their president", but for the moment, you have already said "no, but Maduro out, Maduro out of the country", doesn't even give him the right to live in the country; I don't know with what skills. The violation of human rights. I say it again here, each and every one – I don't care in Venezuela that in Euskadi that in Belarus, that in Russia, that in Catalonia or denounce the imprisonment of a rapper in the Spanish state or the police brutality between some actions in Euskadi or yesterday in Madrid or before yesterday in Catalonia, at the same time, obviously, I will say it; because, if not, you can't criticize the police, obviously, we don't support the riots either –... Of course, all, all, but all without a conditionality, we – you are not in the Intergroup of Colombia or in the Sahara – when we make a statement, we denounce human rights violations that have occurred, concrete or general. But, in no case – and I would like to have the capacity and that the Colombian people could throw Ivan Duque away – but, in no case do we say that this gentleman has to leave, that there has to be a political transition in Colombia, or in Morocco, a dictatorship with which we have relations above; we do not say that. We are talking about international law and human rights, not political changes in political regimes that we like more or less. I don't have any models that want to export here, that want to import here – export, forgive –; I don't want to, I don't want to. None. I want to do my political project in Euskadi and in the Spanish state, but it does not caricature me with which we want the model that for everyone. And he was speaking in the first intervention of multinational companies, in this case, Russians and Chinese, that supposedly – I don't know, I don't know, we will study it and if you can pass me documentation, I would appreciate it – they are committing violations of human rights and environmental rights. Precisely because of this, the past legislature, and not only here – in Congress, in the European Parliament and also with NGOs, at international level – we are fighting for a binding treaty on business and human rights, for Chinese and Russian oil companies, and for Iberdrola, for all. What happens is that the moment we mention a Basque company: no, no, no, they are all exemplary. All of them, all of them. All human rights violations, all the practices and bad practices of all companies, give me no matter whether they are in my own postal code or Russian, Chinese or Brussels; give me exactly the same. Therefore, I repeat, all human rights violations, but let us not use them for the purpose of changing political regimes, and you have said: all, but Maduro was, no, we cannot accept it. If it is all, the dialogue of all, even if there has to be an election, a new election, which, by the way, they touch, if I am not mistaken, in 2023, in the middle of a mandate – by the way, a figure that does not exist here – there is the possibility of revocation of the mandate, and we could incorporate it in the reform of the Statute of Autonomy, so that the office of lehendakari, even that of any Member, can be subjected, on the basis of considerations, to the revocation of the mandate, which is a very important democratic control mechanism. Well, let it be done, let it be done, but everyone. And his initiative, and with his much less explanation, is not inclusive, and he does not seek a sincere dialogue to solve Venezuela's problems, and I believe that, certainly in the background, we will all agree that the economic situation is very serious and that it must be solved, but of course they do not include the issue of sanctions, which is fundamental to ending the so dramatic economic situation that the people of Venezuela are experiencing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u75	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. "EH Collect must not speak; therefore, as the dispute is ended, we shall vote." Resulk Popularo-Ciudadnos correction. Yes... We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 44; the votes given, 75; the supporters 7; the opponents, 68; abstentions, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u76	So it's not accepted. We shall next vote the original text of the Eucabertians and the Sociaists of Eukal Acialists as introduced by the rest of the party. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 44; 75; the supporters are 48; the contrary, 27; the abstations are 0; white ones; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u77	So it's accepted. Five point in theme list: "Provide the other proposal as a parlamentary team, about the health strategy to revolutionize the epidemic situation after Christmas. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Ubera, representative of the EH Collect Group, has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u78	Good noon. We'll still talk about the health attack. As I said yesterday at the Medical Committee, we've gone up and down the Russian mountain through the whole pandemy. Chromeed critical, normalized yield rate of independence. The government has chronified and normalized the rate of independence between 300 and 500, with all that it supposes, because the mass of the deceased is supposed to be above 300 and 500, to be burdened with co-operation, to be stressed, to have all the activities that is not COVID-19, and so we've done a number of information and the government has answered us that he's cut off, or the surgeons, and so many hedgehogs, too, are closed. We are plunged up and down in the waves, without leaving the wild wheel of the waves, we dance between 300 and 800 incisecies, living with the virus because it has been planning, not answering the virus, not resisting the virus, not telling the virus. And the answer to the consequences, Osacence, has been specially punished by our public health system for many months, in order to respond to COVID-19, especially a year ago, and to avoid everything that is not COVID-19, with all the negative impact of it, in the health of the population. This might have been understandable in the first few months, and we could all understand it, but it's hard to understand it, and it's not acceptable. Even with Christmas, it wasn't understandable, and it wasn't acceptable, it was the government's conduct and the decision of the LABI. Instead of taking precautions to the state of health, they took the precaution of celebrating Christmas, knowing the worst of all the consequences which would lead to the fun of Bocage. The health department knew what would be the result of it when it was decided to lighten the measurements of watching Christmas. For then we were not present in the month of May and June; nay, when the measures were lightened, we were at the same rate of independence, which began to harden our measures in October (we were all present to it, or, if you go to the bulletins, you can see what data is). So he did it with incredible carelessness, and the staff of the Osageers have paid it very expensive and are paying it. Without saying it's the life that's lost. We ordered a plan B, before we did this, we ordered a plan B at the Medical Committee, but the government didn't have any plan B, and it was limited to the usual: To regulate moderation in the social customs of the people. And of course this must also be done and necessary, but it is always forgotten what it can do, and the means of developing the health and the measures it can take. Because we still have much to do in this sense, even though the president says that we've exhausted the means of dealing with the disease. To begin with, perhaps, we should say that the planning, the manner, the novelty may be interesting. The government also often mentions that we have learned something in these months; and therefore if we have learned anything, why do we continue to act in the nature of a kind which does not lead us to anything? Look, we know this, and everybody knows that there are no magic recipes. And in that we all agree. But it has also been seen that it is a lie in the theory of living with virus, and that the balance between health and economy. In countries where they have gone to destroy the virus, to search for virus or rebirth, the results have been better. And even the state of the economy has been better. See now what they have done in New Zealand with three positive, with those three positive ones. We know that all countries have not the same culture, and that we have not the same characters, and that we are different then, and that even those which are applied in one place do not work perhaps in another. But they can adapt, they can adapt, and it has been clearly seen that in a short time tough measures are highly effective. That's seen too. And we have also seen what measures work, and what measures are effective. We are told that New Life III. That we have to be more ambitious in the plan. But the question is: how we shall be more ambitious of the New World. If even in the former part of the plan the same measures are received, he was still in possession of it, and now also of the New World. To fill the destination on the planet? I mean, the goal is to get to the 60th independence rate, but that's what we're planning for. But with the measures we have hitherto been unable to accomplish them. So, how do we do it? Perhaps we should review the plan instead of constantly dancing at the rate of 300, 600, 800 units. Besides, in December, a new variant has now entered us with full force. British variant. And this opens other incognites, opens other scenarios, as the Coordination Center in Europe has reminded us of the control and care of its diseases. I mentioned it yesterday, and I want to repeat it again to-day: The European Coordination Center has sent a document, and it is clear that we must prepare ourselves for a significant growth of cases and deaths, in view of what is going on with European variants. They say it's true that the vaccine effect is about to be seen. They say, too, that summer months may mitigate it; but they say that the effect of slighting measures may be greater than it can have before. And we have a recommendation from the Central European Diseases: we are advised to have a strong and responsible immediate intervention to control transmission and custody. It may therefore be time for a reposition, or in other ways, if you will not use that term, to improve things; To force what works and reject what doesn't work. For a long look, and not so far as we are, we change the measures, and when we ease the measures, they rise again, so that long practice also makes the people tired. And this also is recorded in this report of Europe: that such an action has increased the fatigue of the people for a long time. In addition to the novelty of the planning, it would be interesting to turn round the model of government, to set up that union which was impossible from the beginning of the pandemae, to set up other ways to work, with the scientific community of this country, with the experts, well, to divide the work, eh? Partnership would be nice for her because it would help her to take a little breath. Following this moon, it is indispensable that the New World and the New II should make a public strategy of health that does not receive. I mean, I don't question, or I don't want to doubt that this government has a health strategy, but it's true we don't know it. And, by the way, we've been asking for the role of the CEO of the Osalome to come and explain the health strategy, haven't we? But we haven't had a chance yet. And we know that a pandemia is dynamic, that it is variable, that things can change and there must be a flexibility. But above all, there must be flexibility to face the virus, to make predictions. And that's why we made our proposals, and we made this suggestion after Christmas, so that we could get ahead of the stage and strengthen that interval of health that is necessary to us. For though the President may say that we have exhausted all means, yet it is not true. We still have the means to anticipate, to improve-- it's another matter of independence that there may be another sphere, but there are still other elements in the hands of fun, which may be essential, and which, by the way, have been recorded in the New Life I. New life I. but afterwards, when we passed into II. and III., it was lost. So our proposition agreed that the bacteria should be included in the purposes, and that, when it was opened, it would integrate with the sanitary organization. And this was what we were planning, under the guidance of the Medical Department, to start with all the details of the EAE investigation, knowledge, and innovation, a cluster, or some other way, in order to penetrate, to confront the virus, the test, and the ecmiological watch. We also requested to strengthen the band of coordinate, to strengthen the equipment, to win efficiently. We were also asking for other points about the insertion campaign: Chronogram, public planning... We also demanded that the LABI's technical reports should be made public, because if the public were made, data, a lot of discussions would end. They'd end up! And I don't understand how close this government has to do technical reports or data public, because... For example, if contagion were to be made public, it would be plain, and clear, certain disputes, which now are, and which are at present, refined. And would he help, too, to be conscious, to pedagogy? We also planned to strengthen trackers, labs, and samples, because we see there's a lot to do there, even to put more nurses in the inn, to speed up the pace. And we were planning, too, to penetrate the concentration of the Viegora, Biodonostia, and Biocruces in the labs, because before the pandemia, these sub structures were being demanded, and now what are necessary, not? And even in sequence, we still have a lot to improve. It must be said that we've finally made a middle-way together with Podemos. We've improved a few things. It seems to us that the measures we have received would be extremely convenient and interesting to force, to anticipate the virus, and to win the efficiency of the health. We believe this to be a kind of proposal to protect even groups that support the government. And, really, if you want to be ambitious and you want to improve, we want to encourage them and invite them to protect this medium. And from us, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, Podemos-Nozzerz, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u80	Yes, I do not know if the transaction we have signed is consumable or signable by the groups supporting the Government. I can't wait for her to be backed up like this, just like that. But, of course, what we are convinced is that this initiative proposed by Mrs Ubera was absolutely negotiable. We believe that it was an initiative in pro posals, on which we could have spoken and on which agreements could have been reached, because, moreover, on some previous occasion, we have also reached agreements on similar issues. In that spirit, too, of reaching agreements, we have proposed, we have proposed, an amendment to the whole, which affected the issues that we considered to be most important, starting from the agreement with the original initiative in most of its content, and now I will explain the part that, perhaps, we do not see so clearly, and we were, of course, open to all groups. We have transferred to Mrs Ubera what changes we saw fit to make in the compromise proposal she made to us. And before... I mean, because on other occasions it's happened, before anyone tells me I haven't called you, I think the story has to be the truth. The proposing group has made us a compromise proposal, I believe, to all groups, or indeed to those groups that support the Government. We have responded with our contributions and open to all groups. And, as far as I know or as far as I know, the groups that support the Government, I believe, have not even responded to that proposal. I say, go ahead, because then last time I was told not to call them. And that's why I didn't call you, because crossing messages, when you're negotiating on an original initiative, because, of course, it seems like a bad method to me. And I also say that, because it was said before that people, when the pandemic passes, will have memory. And it's true; it's true! You said it: people will have memory. And today we are facing an initiative that could be discussed, and I believe that it is the groups that support the Government that, very explicitly and very openly, had no desire to speak. And I guess that's gonna have to be remembered by people, too. Good. What did we propose? We have had an impact on a matter on which we have been drawing attention, I believe, since September, on the department, because it seems to us that, in some way, it is the Achilles heel of the policy of prevention with regard to the virus, which is having this Government, which is the issue of tracing, the question of tracing, as regards methodology and resources. And it is true, and yesterday I was also able to ask the adviser in the committee on this issue, that there have been changes. And some have to do with some of the agreements that have been reached in this House. And there have been resource changes, and there have also been changes in methodology. And that's good, and we're going to recognize that some of those changes have yielded positive results. And, therefore, we will continue to insist, because the experts with whom we consult, I know that I will be told that I have to consult with others – of course, with whom we consult – tell us that there is plenty of room for improvement on this issue and that we have important examples in other countries far away, in terms of methodology – of course, in terms of resources as well. That is why we proposed, in our original amendment, a change in methodology, but in the agreement we have reached is an improvement in the tracking strategy... And then, the resources, especially for one thing – said Mrs Ubera and I share it – because so that they do not suppose the conditions that they are assuming to the regular services of Osakidetza, that they are seeing themselves squandered and that we believe that, in fact, after a year, because the government and the department have sufficient capacity for this not to be so. And finally, the issue that we have also included in the first paragraph of our amendment and which is included in the transaction, which has to do with the specific screenings, because it is true – and this is the part to which I referred before we see it not so clear from the original initiative and which is included in the transaction, because neither do we have any inconvenience in including it –... It is true that massive screenings are being of dubious efficiency. But, instead, selective screenings especially, and that is where we wanted to focus, in certain groups, on the place they occupy in the... let's call it that, chain of transmission of the virus to the most vulnerable people or groups, because they can be a very efficient tool, in terms of prevention and also in terms of detecting areas of contagion, but especially in terms of prevention. And that is why we included this, which is the part I want to highlight from our amendment, which is included in the compromise and on which – I think – we could talk, because I believe that the government also planned this type of screening at the time, but the truth is that these specific screenings in certain important areas have not been done as they should have been done, because they have to be done with a high frequency, and, as far as we know, are not being done. Therefore, we are making an amendment and we have reached an agreement, of an absolutely pro-active nature, and we regret that there has been no more capacity to speak and reach agreements on this issue, which at this time has us all absolutely worried and busy. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u81	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of the Popular-Ciudad, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u82	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Well, we're discussing a proposition on COVID again. And I think, when we discuss so many enterprises on this subject, it is plain that the Government does not do things right, or at least that some things must be corrected, or must be studied or improved. From this Illus, we have introduced our correction, and in both subjects we believe that it is necessary to deep down. On the one hand, it is necessary that there should be a plan, a plan of vaccination is necessary, and we do not know this plan as it has been mentioned here. And we're correcting that request to the MUDM. And, on the other hand, we can improve other things, and finally give our support to the agreed correction. We continue to discuss initiatives relating to COVID, which shows that this Government, the Basque Government, is not doing things right, or there are many aspects that can be improved, and there are also many aspects where shortcomings occur. And this group, as it could not otherwise be, has tabled this amendment in its entirety, based on the rigour and where the needs can currently be in relation to the management of the pandemic, and above all, taking into account, as I said, the needs existing in various areas. Therefore, it is an initiative, well, also contrasted with the people who are working day by day on this issue. I think it is important and I said it before, I say, I know that the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party have a majority and that, well, it will probably come out of its amendment to the whole, as is the case in these plenary sessions, and especially in this matter, but I would also like to recall the ruling of the Supreme Court, which we met this morning, which ratified the previous ruling in a lower instance, the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, pointing out that fundamental rights had been violated by the Basque Government in the protection of certain groups who are either assisting in the front line or providing their assistance and assistance in the front line in the fight against the pandemic, such as the Ertzaintza and the health workers. I think that is important; we have already read the assessment of the Basque Government, which respects it but does not share it... Well, what happens is that the court decisions are there, and obviously we have to respect them. As I said, we will support the compromise amendment signed by Bildu and Podemos, because it affects the issues that we raise in our whole amendment, which we believe to be important, which is the existence of a planning, a timetable, a plan, which we do not know today. I was saying this in my motion before: I think it is important that... derived from the recommendations that I made at the time, that it is true that they have been changed and that yesterday they were changed by the National Commission for Public Health and the Autonomous Communities and the Interterritorial Council, the recommendations may be subject to change, obviously, it is true that, well, it can often draw attention to so much change of opinion, that we do not often know what it is about and that citizenship does attend to so much perplexing change, but well, we understand that experts will also have their reasons to do so. But it is true that we are focusing the criticism, in this case, on the Basque Government, because we understand that within the competences it has assigned, of managing the planning of what is a vaccination process, because, as I said earlier, in the motion I have tabled from this group, we believe that things are not being done well and that there are multiple shortcomings. That is why he referred to the need for a plan that sets out the priority or order in which they are going to be vaccinated or we are going to vaccinate the collectives as a whole. Mr Telleria said earlier: but it is that I, Mr Telleria, is that I, by my circumstances, will presumably immunize myself from the last in this autonomous community, but I believe that I, by my circumstances, or anyone else, a person who may have a chronic disease or a person who may be at risk, anyone has, at least, the right to know in what order can be immunized. And we already know that we depend on the availability of vaccines; we already know that there are different types of vaccines, and each one can be applied or has potential recipients in a particular group, but it is that in all this puzzle and in all this we have to put a certain order, because, if not, chaos, as is happening, is impressive. And then what happens is that we citizens are, in some way, – and I speak to you as a citizen; I am not speaking to you as a representative of the People's Party and Citizens in this House – perplexing all these changes in criteria or, often, in the absence – better said – of criteria that we are seeing in the management of the vaccination process. In relation, as I said, to the vaccination process, it seems important to us that this plan should already be drawn up; that is what we have asked in our previous motion. And also the focus of the proponent group's initiative: everything that has to do with tracking equipment, right?, strengthen them and also improve the early detection of the focal points where these contacts may be occurring, to identify possible sources of infection of the infected person. I think it is also important to pay special attention to laboratories, laboratory equipment, infrastructure... And finally, I believe that the motivation for this initiative, as the proposer has pointed out, comes from the resumé of the cases after Christmas, and I was saying it yesterday too and I was saying it to the adviser, that, beyond the tendency to blame some sector, I believe that we must also do, or the Basque Government should do a reflection, right?, a reflection, because it was the Basque Government that also, well, allowed the measures adopted before Christmas to be alleviated in some way, and in that sense also the resumés as a result of Christmas have come directly from, and so say, the various studies that there are, at national level, the resumé of contagions that may have occurred in the family environment. I believe, Madam Counsellor, that greater efforts must be made in this regard in raising awareness and raising awareness in the family and in social contacts. And then, I believe that this government is not doing this: when drastic measures are taken that clearly affect a sector and that limit its activity for such a long, long period of time and that it is directly affecting these restrictive measures, what falls to the Basque Government is, no longer just duly justifying those restrictions, which, as I say, affect and impact on the economic activity of a sector as relevant as hospitality or others, I am also referring to the field of trade, the field of self-government in general... genuine rescue plans have to be designed, and the aid here has been absolutely insufficient, that is, what cannot be done... that I do not question the measure for nothing and this group does not question it: if we have to close we have to close. But it is a very drastic measure, and therefore it has to be duly reasoned, and it seems that it has not been so, as we have known in the provisional order of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, in which, by the way, the allegations... "I don't think the Basque government did very well either," he said, "because the hospitality claims must have been 60 folios, and the Basque government, then, I don't know if I understood that there weren't enough reasons, but they were quite..., in folios, so the information that has come to me, much less, not reaching the five folios. But, well, aside from that, I do believe that... Madam Counsellor, who is this morning in these debates, as it could not otherwise be, I also understand that you, when you take such a restrictive measure, which obliges a certain sector to a certain activity, to lower the blind, that is, what is not possible for that sector is to leave it behind, and I believe that you, in that sense, the aid that you have arbitrated and put into effect is absolutely insufficient. Well, ultimately, I think the agreement that is being adopted today – well, it is not going to be approved, because surely the groups that support the government vote that it is not – is important, to put the emphasis on issues that I think are likely to improve in the field... The exact moment we're at. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u83	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u84	Thank you, Madam President. I said this in the previous debate: I believe that when we bring up a subject and do not focus on it, then, in reality, we do ourselves a weak favor. And it gives me the feeling that there are repeated debates, issues that we have already addressed, even some where we have agreed on texts, policies and which have been carried out, and which are brought back, as if nothing had been done. I am not going to say what each group does with its initiatives; everyone will know how it spends its share of initiatives. But, to me, what worries me is that, when these debates are brought forward, it is about obviating the reality, and making statements that simply, therefore, come to contradict even those data and reports that we have all the groups in this House. And the citizens who are on the street may not have such direct access to it, well, they do have it through Parliament's page, but it is that we, even, have received the e-mail directly as a response to a request for documented information, a reply to a written question, and what is most striking to me is also when it is even the groups themselves that have made those requests for documented information and that have received that reply that bring back this initiative or, not waiting for the answer to come, that is, the Government is asked, for example, what is going to be done about it and an initiative is already being brought in saying what is to be done or when the data come, then, well, are obvious, because they do not come right to the speech that is to be put forward. I have been saying this for a long time – I have also said this in committee –: the pandemic came to us almost a year ago without an instruction book, and it came to us without an instruction book to all, to those who are in the governments, to those who are in the opposition, to those who are in the health services and to those who are in any other area. And the Basque Government, like any government, like any government!, what it does is take the measures that are valued after many analyses and, moreover, analysis of experts in these matters – because we sometimes forget, but neither you nor I are epidemiologists experts; I at least am not, and I have to admit that: I am not an epidemiologist expert, but I do not think there are any epidemiologists here either. And this is not a simple task. In that decision-making, it is done by the Government of one political colour, it is done by one Government of another, it is affected by many circumstances, it is affected by circumstances that are varied and that, moreover, are unpredictable and that change over time. And of course there are margins of improvement, but it is that you try to assume that Osakidetza and this department do not address or attend to those margins of improvement, as they are being detected. And that is the idea that I want to counter: Osakidetza, the department, and I understand that any government, is in the search for those margins of improvement, to better deal with this pandemic situation, in a constant way. I believe that there is a clear health strategy, although the proposaler's own initiative expressly states that it does not exist; it does exist; in fact, I do not know how many months we have been here with appearances explaining this health strategy, and it is done in a transparent way: data are given when requested and, moreover, come here to appear, to give the explanations that are appropriate. But what we cannot lose sight of is that this strategy, moreover, is continuously adapting, and I see, because this is also an important issue: here many times it is said that changes are made, but also, when later changes are made, it is said that these changes are motivated because the above was chaos. And that's not true. It's just not true. These changes are motivated because we are getting to know better about what we are facing, of course. And these changes are made in all the administrations, in all the countries in our environment: in France, in Germany, in Belgium, in Madrid, in Murcia, in New Zealand too, in everyone. EH Bildu tells us that they warned that it was necessary to have a plan B for Christmas return. Well, I think we can call it "equi", "Plan B", "Plan C", "Plan D", but the truth is that, since Christmas, all governments, and the Basque Government too, have been making decisions precisely to lower the rate that had risen at Christmas. Man, just like in a document that puts "plan", but all these measures have been taken, measures that have been communicated to us in the Health Commission weekly, and that they know. And this week we have been, for example, four days below the thousand daily cases; yesterday's cumulative rate was 424 per 100,000 inhabitants, and there is a drop in hospital data. But I agree with what Mrs Ubera has pointed out, because we all agree, and the adviser said it yesterday in the committee: we are far from the objective, and the measures are still being implemented to achieve that objective. We must remain cautious, continue restrictive measures, and we must also continue to appeal to the personal responsibility of citizens. I think that's a very powerful message, which we never have to forget. In the initiative or in the transaction that is now being collected, I do not know whether that which we are being asked would be what we could consider the "Plan B" to which EH Bildu refers in his original initiative, and we have analysed it. Of course, here are those who tell us: no, it will not go ahead because the government will apply its majority. No, no, It is not going to come forward because the parties we support the Government, the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, we are clear that some of the issues that are raised there, or are already being made, or even some are not that it is not necessary to do them, it is that they could even become counterproductive to do them. I'll explain myself. I, when talking about the collaboration entities and talking about the need to collaborate with them for testing, for that is precisely what Osakidetza is doing, as the department responds to requests for documented information and written questions. In fact, by joining him with the last point of the initiative, I get a little attention, don't I? More resources are being given to Bioaraba, Biocruces and Biodonostia. Yeah. Yes, and see if we agree, that precisely the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party voted a week ago in favour of budgets that increased research spending capacity by 7%, among others in these three institutes. Of course, today we are told by those who have not approved the 7% increase that more money needs to be allocated. That's right. With regard to strengthening the coordination team to ensure that all teams act in a coordinated manner, as we agree. See if we agree, which is what has been done from the beginning. From the beginning! On the issue of planning, I am not going to go into vaccination, because we have already had an entire point where we have talked about it. And with regard to the tracking network, I explained – the last time, yesterday – that it is one of the fundamental tools being used. And it has been explained on numerous occasions how new people have been incorporated into the tracking teams. And then, on a point-by-point issue, which is where I want to express more doubts, because it clearly raises doubts, which is with the subject of screening. From the reading of what is proposed to us, it is understood, and I therefore ask for clarification, that we are talking – let us say – about a massive policy of screening. And, of course, the screenings have their meaning and justification, but according to very specific epidemiological criteria. And, by the way, none of them, none of those criteria, is bound to go ahead with anything. Perhaps we should pay attention, for example, to what is reflected in the strategy of early detection, surveillance and control of COVID-19, a document endorsed by the Carlos III Institute, which only recommends screening in certain very specific situations, in no case widespread, related to a high transmission in a geographical area also specific, or in target population. And when these conditions are met, Osakidetza makes screenings; the counselor explained it yesterday. And, in fact, even at the request of documented information, we have the response regarding the sequencing of the samples of many of those screened. Therefore, when it is stated here that the different groups that we support the government are going to vote that no, you cannot move the idea – with this I have just – that we do, well, because it gives us the will. No, no, It is simply because we believe that the amendment, as is the case with us, responds more clearly to the reality we are experiencing. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u85	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u86	Good morning again, everyone. Ms. Ubera, neither you nor I are epidemicologists, and in general the proposal we are to discuss today has technical characteristics. And that could cause us a real discussion. But though the matter may be dry, I shall try to be as bold as possible. In its long justification of this GNP, it begins by expressing something that is very common and repetitive: that we have always gone after the virus. Well, of course, like virtually every country in the world. If Euskadi were an island, he would have a huge amount of economic resources that would allow him to resist for six months closed to call and chant in all his social and economic activities, and citizenship would also be soporiferous and bear it, because at that time we would achieve it. Although, in Australia itself, stuck to New Zealand, a country blocked on all sides, today I've heard, there are 40 Australians who have been living outside Australia for a year and don't let them in. Good. A week ago, a case of COVID has arisen in Melbourne, and the entire province of Victoria has been closed for a week, for everything. They were supposed to go ahead, but they had to go back behind the virus, at least this week. And they keep the borders absolutely closed and controlled, which makes it easier for them, because they are an island. But it is that a pandemic of a new virus is what it has: always, except in most honorable exceptions, you have to go after it until the immunity of the flock is achieved, either by a massive infection, or rather, preferably, by a mass vaccination. The virus moves with great ease; it mutates and adapts to achieve the greatest benefit, like any living being. If it is a virus that causes many deaths, it is most likely that it modifies its genetics to cause less, because its own survival goes into it. In return, it will mutate to weaken your attack, but to spread more easily and reach more hosts; British variety. The virus is not bad or has no awareness of being bad at all; it just wants to survive, for which it multiplys at enormous speed, and mutates with high frequency, so it is much faster than the human being. That yes, we live much longer than the virus; but, in return, we are much more stable genetically, and with much less ability to adapt to the changes that continuously incorporate the virus. Therefore we must go to something which is not virus, to study, and to science. And therefore we must go to vaccines to overcome; but in the meantime, in general, we will follow the virus, although we do not like it, because it is much faster than we are. Months ago the Basque Government was asked to imitate Portugal or Germany, I don't know if they remember, that they did well. Now those voices have been silenced because they have seen the huge rise of cases in those countries. Countries that – it seemed – were beginning to advance the virus and, all of a sudden, tumbling back and forth. And it's just that I've once commented, I don't know if in commission or... fighting a virus of new appearance is like driving along a narrow road behind a drunk driver, who's moving from one side of the road to the other, and it's impossible to get ahead. There are only two possibilities to save him: stand on the deck and wait for him to leave, or wait for him to crash and advance. The first is confinement; the second is the vaccine. But moving forward is very difficult, without risking too many things. Having made this introduction, I will begin to try to explain the points of the proposal: What you, Mrs Ubera, cannot do is ask the government for concrete planning, but that is essentially based on screening. Let's see, planning has, but it can't be based on screening. Either ask for a strategy or ask for screenings. It's two different things. Because screenings have their meaning and justification based on very specific epidemiological criteria. And none of them are focused on getting ahead of the virus. The screenings are to locate infected people who don't know they are, and in this way get them out of the street as soon as possible. But it is not at all the basis of a health strategy. Ask your epidemiologist or epidemiologist more specifically. Screening is usually applied when a lot of seemingly unrelated cases occur in a given geographical and temporal area, which is not known where they come from. Tracking networks are dedicated to chasing the virus, from close contacts of people, and they are following it – always from behind, by the way. Trackers follow those threads, and they're tracking positives. Sometimes these threads are lost, and new, unrelated cases occur. And depending on their incidence it is decided to do screenings. And not all screenings result in the location of many positives. In fact, epidemiologists consider that a screening has been successful when at least 1% of those analyzed have been positive. By the way, an extensive screening in any organization (a company, a village, a region, an ikastola... ) done today does not guarantee or prevent that tomorrow itself a route of contagion is extended by that area. Among other things, because screening is not a vaccine. We can't confuse him. With regard to the other points: when referring to a possible cluster with R & D & i centres, to which centres do you refer? Because promotion, prevention, health care to effectively develop the strategy of testing, monitoring and epidemiological surveillance to deal with SARS-CoV-2 virus, which is what you request, is what the department, Osakidetza and its five research centers do every day of the year, which, by the way, are very prestigious. On the other hand, it calls for strengthening the strategy coordination team to deal with the pandemic, so that all teams act in a coordinated manner and gain in effectiveness in their daily activities. What has the department done since the beginning of the pandemic? Because that's exactly what it was: strengthening that and all the teams dedicated to the subject, all of them. Apart from you, the Basque Government itself and, especially, the Department of Health are aware that this is the priority. With regard to the vaccination campaign strategy, if you have been careful, I am sure you have, to the previous debate that we have had, because I give it my answer. The tracking staff, to which they also refer, has continued to be strengthened, depending on the needs that have arisen. Today, it has more than 520 professionals. Which means, more or less, one for every 4,500 inhabitants. Do you know how many WHO recommends? One for every 5,500. Then, the pace we have maintained; the percentage of positives identified by contact is maintained; it has been incorporated, and you know it, the extended or backtracking, to go beyond three days (it goes up to seven or ten days), and the school tracking has intensified. In the field of sampling, everything has been strengthened by incorporating new specialists. The labs have changed their processes. And right now, the microbiology labs on Osakidetza's biological diagnostic network are working tomorrow, afternoon, night, Saturday and Sunday. Regarding (again) vaccination, but vaccination equipment, at the moment the department guarantees vaccination equipment far more generous than the vaccines that are actually coming. And, finally, as far as strengthening sequencing is concerned, which is another word that has emerged in all this tide of this pandemic, different techniques are being used, in order to identify the different variables of the virus. Sequencing is just one of them. And techniques, technical templates, and auxiliaries have been strengthened for all that. As you can see, although some of the aspects contained in his proposal we understand that they are generally correct, we understand that they have already been achieved. Which means that, being honest, we have to recognize it. And we have therefore amended it, in order to ask the Government to continue to do what it is doing, and, if necessary, to deepen it, when, for the information they have, they understand it. What is being done to know how the epidemic goes and works is the right thing to do. The actions to combat it are also the right ones. And in fact, every time the epidemic goes off, they get corrected. It won't seem like much to you. We think that's what needs to be done. Because we understand that the Government is doing well, and correcting the course according to the data they are gathering and analysing different experts, including some epidemiologists, who, by the way, at least those of the Government, have for their formation something more than a workshop and who, do not doubt, know about this matter not only you and I, of course, but know much more than almost everyone else in Euskadi, including the magistrates. And it is they who set the pattern for the different actions that must be done. And they, I know, are not thinking of benefiting or harming each other. They and they, epidemiologists and epidemiologists, walk behind the virus, constantly trying not to crash. From there, and therefore the last point of our amendment, its exclusively epidemiological proposals must be adapted, as best as possible, to the necessary balance between epidemiological control measures and the necessary recovery of normalised social activity, always prevailing health. That's what the Bizi Berri III Plan is. And all this is told here, in the most didactic way I have been able, by a parliamentarian, who basically is nothing but a citizen, without a course or anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u87	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. The next round of the band that hasn't run any corrections, Mistto. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u88	Well, this is to stick and not bleed. The Bildu Group, which is committed to giving classes of democracy to those who have suffered the violence they defend, brings us a proposal almost based on the motion that has just been tabled by Vox and that has not even had the decency to discuss, and also to which PP and Citizens have brought, and to which they have not voted either. Representative democracy. You live by creating enemies and persecuting them, no matter who falls, no matter what you would call side effects. What makes you think you have more legitimacy than Vox to demand a precise vaccination protocol from this government? What makes you think you can claim transparency, and Vox can't? Ladies and gentlemen of Bildu, this Parliament is very large for you. You know a lot about violence and very little about democracy. You know how to use any kind of means to impose your ideas and to silence those you don't like. Having said that, I will also focus on the amendment to the whole of the government party. And I'm going to literally read, "Keep watching and making decisions for pandemic control." They say this, obviating their bad results and their bad management. I keep reading: "Generalize the administration of vaccines according to the protocols designed". What protocols? Really, do you not even bother to lie so blatantly to a citizen who is stained by this health, economic and social crisis? But what's more, I keep reading: "Keep in mind the necessary balance between control measures and economic reactivation". How do you tell us this if it is your responsibility that you have condemned thousands of entrepreneurs, self-employed and workers to ruin? This is spruce. I follow the word, Mr Hernández; then I explain it to you. A group of politicians, a friend of terrorists, tries to wash their image with a cordon sanitaire that, among others, has suffered the Spanish Association of Fight against Cancer, and that today tells us that it is concerned about the consequences of COVID-19 in our society. Gentlemen of Bildu, don't you change your mind that the people who voted for Vox are also part of this society? And two parties that unscrupulously defend the inoperation of the Government, which support that they propose to us to continue with what they are doing, despite the deaths, the saturation of health resources, the hasty and tiredness of the professionals of Osakidetza, the economic ruin and the despair that they are creating. You, gentlemen of the government, continue to play with the lives and future of many people, in addition, people who are voters of your party, Vox voters, PP voters, Citizens voters... And you see, their inability, moreover, affects us all. It is a meeting point between all of you, and you continue to face up and stuck in your power struggle, putting well-being ahead of the health of our society.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u89	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. In the turn of the answers, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u90	I'm out of here. I'm out of here. I'm out of here. The groups supported by the government ought to speak with a greater modesty, when you are unable to fulfil your own goals. And other countries too. Some, at least, complete their goals, and neither do you. So humility. We're told we're having discussions. If we see that they are not satisfied, if we see how much of the improvement of the improvement of the improvement of the better, why can we not bring forward proposals? We don't care, we don't care, and we're active, do we? Shouldn't it be productive and committed? Ah! But, forgive me, forgive me, this government does everything right, it's all right, everything's perfect. I'm sorry, Mr. Tellegioía, Mr. Rico, very high, I'm sorry!! But live on New Plan, baby! We don't do targets. And then again we place these ends, and the same measures. Can you explain to me how someone will explain this Chamber to me how we're going to get to these goals? And don't worry, I'm not an epidemicologist, I'm not, but you give me permission, please, with edemologists, with experts... To bring in suggestions you hired? Will you allow me? Thank you. Look, I have a respectless distortion and the flubolization of our propositions, and I am in a bad way. I understand that you disagree, I understand. I can understand a respectful discussion, I understand, it's normal. What I don't understand is how to fabrate in a serious debate like this, distortion and our proposals, I don't know what to interpret. Well, I don't understand that. I'm sorry. Look, the New Life Plan, the II, the Third... The government itself says they will not enter the strategy of health, which does not belong to them. Who does it belong to? I want to meet him. I want to meet him, and I want to see the document. And, of course, there will be strategies inside this health strategy, there will be general furrows... We go as far as Wallah; then we plan, and then we come to measures. And we have gone in to measure: We're trying to make sure that there's still a lot of room for that. And now I'll explain why there's a lot of improvement in it. Look, the research team. On the research team, on the answer you sent us, there are only two of them. Two! We still don't know what kind of area infections are in, and what percentages they're in. Knowing this, and if you made this public, things would change a lot, and we'd have a chance to take a lot more surgical measures, and we'd do a lot better watch, and we'd even close it up. Browse backwards. Well, we've been doing it for a long time, and we finally managed to change a few parameters that was a pilot of the project at first. This inspection is confined only to two areas: "Encuentros sociales en torrno a la hostelería, y encuentros sociles y familyares en domicilis entre personas no convivieentes." It is confined to this, but further than this, the backward browsing may be extended to other areas, and may be extended and improved. And you can improve that too. Sequence. He gets on the answer you sent him: 5583 changes have been watched. Sequentition is care. And, on the other hand, you say: More than 1,000 sequences. So, even in sequence, there's still a lot to do. Yeah? I still do. Trackers. We even asked for information from trackers, and you say on trackers: The number of personals associated with tracker functions. We don't know how many they are, and I want to ask again: How many of these 500 new contractions are there? For this personal person is the one who is reborn from other places, leaving gaps in other places. So we see there's a lot to do. By the way, I'd forget about the luggage. We also demand sifting between targets. We ask to keep what we received in the first document of New Life, not we, nor we, who received what you received, live in the New I. Plan. The variations, we know, must be done in the case of ends, in the case of ends; we know what they're good for; they're important. See, not us, e, see how they use it in other countries, and it may be remembered that they have been successful or not. You used to use them in collective priorities. You didn't. So, can we make it better? Or didn't you? Even now, we asked you to do it, and you began to do it with difficulty and with difficulty to sift on places where there were higher pollutions. Now, from various places, from country, from place to place... they have been requested and have been refused. And we know that's after us, but what we mean is, instead of limiting our virus, let's go ahead, just as other countries have done, to get rid of it, to get the goal, to get the goal you're aiming at, we're not...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u91	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u92	Asking. And our planning goes that way. And I don't think the EAE government will be more quick, faster, better than other countries. No one's better, faster, faster... We all do what we can. And besides, we do what we can within an unknown thing and an unknown disease, in front of a subject that came without an example.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. No nerds!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u94	Thank you... Together Podemos-Nozzerz, Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u95	Yeah, I'll be brief. Only because we are told a number of things about us asking for things that the government is already doing, or we are told... In particular, Mr. Rico said that the Government was already working on improvement margins and that the Government believed that there was room for improvement and was improving on the way. And at the same time, on many occasions, on the part of the Government and of the groups that support the Government, we appeal to work in common, we appeal to hold our shoulders in a complicated situation, to a virus that, as you often say, comes without an instruction book, and when the opposition raises things in probative terms and which, in your view, are already reflected in the approaches of the Government itself, to move forward, to improve, to seek the margins of improvement, because they do not even feel like talking. Well, man, there's a contradiction there, which we don't understand. And I think that, as I said before, this was an initiative that we could talk about and that we have negotiated and reached agreements on earlier occasions, and also agreements in terms of the government's room for improvement on issues that the government considered to be, in some way, already doing. That's why I don't understand. And I would like to refer briefly, because I do not want Vox's MP to explain to me the definition of a term; it is true that I cannot know the exact definition of the term "sperpent", but as most people on the street do know it is a negative term. I looked at it in the dictionary. Here, he says, come two definitions: "A person or thing that stands out for its ugliness, disillusionment or ridiculous appearance." I can go in there. The second says: "Literary genre that is characterized by the presentation of a deformed and grotesque reality". That's where the Vox game comes in.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u96	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The popular-Ciudad Group representative, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, with your permission, from the seat. Well, I think that today an interesting initiative has been adopted, that we..., will be approved, will not be put to the vote, but, yes, it is so interesting, Mrs Corcuera, that I would like it to be approved this way. Yes... And I regret that the Government, once again, is only focusing on its amendment to the whole and, well, it is not able to incorporate any of the proposals that are in this agreement – which, we believe, also affects the issues that need to be strengthened at the moment, which, without any doubt, are many – and I regret that the Government, once again, will adopt – or the groups that support the Government, rather, will adopt – this attitude of some self-congratulation and consider that everything is doing well; for no, Mr. Rico, Mr. Telleria, I believe that there is also room for self-criticism and that, moreover, it is very healthy, and more so when it is in the Government and in a government with a majority.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u98	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Where to start? To speak with great humility; I agree, Mrs Ubera, and, in fact, I assure you that I do nothing else. In fact, the attitude of my party, the attitude of my group and my attitude is that. Even, look, Mrs Ubera, being aware that I never carry the whole truth, ever, that I think it's the same thing some when they come up here forget, that very possibly we all carry part of the truth. But the problem is to come here and try to disqualify what is being done and even obviate all the information you have to pose that everything is being chaos. And it is I who clearly identify that attitude; that attitude is in existence right now: there are those who have decided that everything is good, everything is good, to add to the idea that everything is chaos. I have not said that the Government is doing everything right; indeed, I have said the opposite. Look, I said that the Government knows that it has margins of improvement, this and any, and I have said something that is also obvious, and that is that as it knows and is aware that there are margins of improvement, it explores them and makes those decisions of improvement. What happens is that you're trying to move that that's not so, but it's not true, it's not true!; in fact, I, we would have to go to the hemerotheque and the sitting papers to see the times the government has come here to say that it has made a change in one thing and it is thought that this change is due to its inoperativeness. No, no, It's because the virus goes... "I don't say that, in general, in all groups; that's true," but it is blamed on many occasions that this is due to inoperation, obviating that we are constantly changing strategies, because we are getting to know – I am going to use the word they have used – the bug; we are getting to know the bug little by little, and so it is. That's the reality. And when you come here to say or insinuate – because it's worse, you don't say, you insinuate; you don't even have the gallantness to say it openly – you don't do other things because the government doesn't want to, knowing that it's because you don't give the circumstances to do it otherwise, like, for example, in the area of vaccination, when you come here and say fat phrases, like "it's people who don't know when to get vaccinated." Of course, but neither here nor in any country in the world is there a calendar where it says that June 12 is going such a group, in none. And to say that that could be done is to generate false expectations and is to keep hitting the wasper and then to say "no, it's that the bees are biting." Of course, you give a stone to the wasper, how they won't bite, how they won't bite! I have told you before: I only demand here is responsibility, that we all take responsibility for each of us; I understand that groups do not share what other groups say, I understand it, and I understand that we can have divergent positions and different projects, I understand it, but also, let me say, I understand that at specific times when we face such critical situations as we are experiencing, because the best message that can be delivered to citizens is to take away some partisan attitudes and grab their shoulders, to face the worst of the pandemics we have ever faced. I don't frivolize. When in the specific case – I speak of the screened ones – I expose the doubts, and that is that I have also told you where those doubts come from, I have told you of the exact document, and of the Carlos III Institute, which in no case recommends this indiscriminate extension of screened ones, I think it is to argue. I believe that, when I say that it is not coherent to say that more resources must be given to research institutes and then vote against extending 7% in the budgets last week, I am giving data; we will have different ways of giving them, but I can assure you that I am in no way frivolating. And to finish – because I would have enough – two mentions: of course there are margins of improvement and of course you agree with the groups, Mr Hernández. Sure. But, of course, I could also tell you that sometimes it gives me the feeling that for what agreement, because less than two months ago here we have agreed with EH Bildu an initiative to incorporate people who help precisely in extrapolation and in the study the tracking data, and today they bring us back something similar. It's just that sometimes you think: well, okay, you come to agreements, and for what. And, finally, the "sperpent." To me the body asks me to dedicate a monograph, a monograph, but I will tell you what attitudes like yours – and I repeat again something that, even Mrs. Garrido has told you – that protocols exist, that strategies exist... Look, then, if you want, I'll give you up – I – the folder, but you can get it out of the Internet; it's that you haven't even looked. That I don't know if it's going to be a snitch, but those claims are ridiculous.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u100	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u101	Thank you, ma'am. I do not know, you, Mrs Ubera, have referred to frivolity. Did you mean me? Because I've never tried to be frivolous, uh, really. I, for me, have a problem, when you come up with a GNP of this type in these subjects, in which we talk about PCR, screening, sequencing, people have no idea. They're incorporating it into some kind of semantic myth, but I've come to try to be didactic. And you'll like, more or less, my metaphors about the car behind a drunk, but it's a didactic way of trying to explain. If it seems frivolous, then maybe I'll change the speech, or maybe you won't listen to me from now on. There are two things... But it's not frivolity, which is a little hypocritical, that is, that, man, once again we come to talk about this because this is a very important issue, because it does wrong the... No, no, this... this comes here because you bring it, because you are committed to bringing it, but it would not be here; it is you who bring it permanently. Of course, even that of saying without further ado "living with the virus is a lie." It's what everybody does. Perhaps, less New Zealand, so seen, that I have already explained to you that in New Zealand it is very different. What New Zealand does is live cornered, hidden, seeing if the virus comes. Let's see if that's not living with the virus or the possible problem of the virus. It's just the... but it's an obvious reality, that you can't make that phrase as saying "it's already, that's the worst thing that..." No, that's what happens when a virus appears, isn't it?, it's that there's nothing else. Look around you: what's going on in Europe? That's right, everybody's kind of closing up some things, opening up another little bit, over here, over there... That's right, here we have to come and criticize it. You are in Nafarroa, which does more or less the same, and I have not yet heard any criticism of what you are doing. And then also, there are epidemiologists of all kinds and conditions, and I believe that in their responsibility, they are more experts than others, although we should ask, at the moment responsibility, is also very much measured what is said today. Today I saw on the front page of a newspaper, a microbiologist, who is a very good microbiologist, pontificating on how vaccines should be managed. It is not about it or the media to abound in the confusion that this society has. Please, a little responsibility on everyone's part. And I would like you, the opposition, to claim that too, and not to take advantage of what is said, but to claim that responsibility on the part of everyone. Mrs Garrido, there is a court ruling; that is from the last legislature, and it is already amortized in elections. This group pulled out three more [[He pointed at his finger.]] , and you three less; tie three. I will also tell you one thing: in the previous committee, all the groups recalled that the issue of vaccinations had gone to the Prosecutor's Office. No one has mentioned that the Prosecutor's Office has suspended it. It's got to be... For when justice is brought in with the government, yes, remember it, but when it comes out they should also remember it. That's honesty. That's honesty! And it is curious that you support this transaction so enthusiastically, when the groups that have traded it are constantly talking, and above all Bildu, about tougher measures, when you have been shouting for months about opening bars, discos and everything. I refer to his colleague Carmelo Barrio at the last talk on Radio Euskadi, to what he said; listen to him, listen to him! [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u102	Silence. Please be quiet... please be quiet, Mr. Barrio.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u103	And they reproach us that we don't answer the emails, that we don't get into the transaction. How do you understand political action? I understand that if some groups are harassing the government, with a GNP of reprobation to the councilwoman, calling her a liar – who have called her – do you believe that the group that supports the government is going to leave the government and the councilwoman alone, trading health matters? Well, we'll have to give it some time. I consistently understand political action; coherently! I'm not saying I have to withdraw anything. I'm saying you can't shake with one hand and hug with the other. You can't. Or I understand it that way, and I'm the one who's carrying these subjects right now. And finally, Mrs. Garrido, we have to wait for vaccination. You want to know the time. Look, I have three, three, serious pathologies susceptible to COVID; I may be worried on the street, taking care of myself, but I know that the government, Health, Osakidetza, will call me the day that corresponds to me. I can internally think that there are people screaming in the media that they are already front-line, that I don't know what, and I will be thinking that I am probably before, but I think so; the decision is made by those who know, and I will wait quietly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u104	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Mists? Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u105	Quickly. Mr. Rico; it is curious that you have the vaccination protocols, when we have all the opposition asking for them virtually all morning, so please pass them to me at the exit. And, secondly, Mr Hernández, you have been very skilled at searching the dictionary for the word "sperpent" or "sperpent". In fact, it has two definitions; first of all: "Person who stands out for his ugliness, disillusionment or ridiculous appearance". Tell me, Mr Hernández, if this definition does not conform to your boss Echenique, hoarding anti-fascists to burn down cities, destroy businesses and assault cops. And secondly, it is indeed "a literary genre characterized by the presentation of a deformed and grotesque reality". Tell me if this is not what your parties are like, Lords of Podemos, who say yes or no to the initiatives presented according to who proposes them. This is a spur, Mr Hernández, and not Vox, in this Parliament. We must use the words rigorously, Mr Hernández; I am surprised that at the private university where you studied you did not teach you this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u106	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The discussion is over and we'll vote for EH Collect and together the middle-direction that Podemos Anzus has signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 44; 75; the supporters are 33; the opponents are 42; the oppositions are 42; the abstainations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u107	So it's not accepted. After that, we can vote for the entire leadership of Populara-Ciudadans. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 44; 75; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 41; the abscesssions, 7; white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u108	So it's not accepted. And finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the U.S.A. patriots in the whole area that the teams present. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 44; 75; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 34; the abstations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u109	So we have to accept the full correction. And I interrupt the entire meeting until half-past four. It was three o'clock in the afternoon. At four thirty o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u110	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll go back to the whole meeting. Number of points in theme list: "Provide the equivalent of the parlamental team, the production of a rescue fund for economic sectors made by COVID-19. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Casanova, representative of the EH Group, has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u111	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. And good afternoon, particularly to the guests who are present, we know that by means of the streaming, others are continuing the pliant, members of the affected sectors and members of the associations. Thank you for being here today and thank you for the work you're doing for your economic sector. We've talked a lot about the pandemia, even today, and we'll talk a lot about it in the next few weeks and months. Unfortunately, we don't think it's necessary to make special entries around the context or the context. We know what situation we are in, we know what evolution is from a sanitary point of view, we know that even in social rank, it has upset a lot of habits and relationship styles by the crisis produced by pandemics, and we are here today to talk about another peak of the situation that pandemics has created. No, we won't treat the economy as a whole, but we'll focus on it in a situation of specially damaged sectors. To sum up on a line, we could say that in 20th year, in our autonomous community, the economy, according to the crude internal procedure, one of 10% has dropped, one of the crude internal impacts has dropped. It is true that behind this crude data the heterogeneous realities are concealed; In time, it is true, the descent has been greatly concentrated during the second quarter of the year, especially when the Encynob had a remarkable descent, and then there has been a convalescence, but it has not been enough to compensate for that quarter of the year. As for the sectors, the impact has not been homogeneous. Industries it was injured, when the activity was interrupted; but, more or less rapidly, it recovered itself; there are incidents, and there are several industrial subsectors in a delicate situation, among other things, of aeronautic. Services have been more damaged, especially services connected with motion and social relations, because there have been restrictions in it, as well as they have been legally established in order to face the pandemy, and also because the change of habits and social habits has been limited or restricted. That's what caused so many sectors and subsectors a serious situation, and, in many cases, intolerable. There's been a lot of talk for the past few weeks about the situation of the host, and today we'll talk about the hosting, but the host isn't the only sector that's been damaged. Unfortunately, the host has become the fatal symbol of the social dimension of this situation and this situation, and is logical, and we shall discuss why it has been so, but other sectors are also being affected and damaged: Turmism, trade, especially so many subsectors, but also others that are concerned with leisure, culture, creators, taxis, etc., etc. The Pandemia has been an earthquake because the earthquake has been strong and violent because it has been unhoped to us. And with certain circumstances I would like to share the dimensions of this earthquake with you by examples. At the airport in Loiu, 2020. In the year, the number of passengers has dropped 71%. You can imagine that you've got in there or that you work in a café, or at a present's, or at a free-house or a magazine store, you can imagine the effect made by passengers apart from the airlines and other sectors, and that's where people work at the airport are down to 71% of the potential for people who work. Marriages, in the 2nd quarter, came down 80%. And I don't mention this because Valentine's Day has been this week, but that there are economic sectors behind marriage, that there are restaurants, that there are laundry stores, that there are flower stores, then imagine that your business suddenly collapses at 80%. We have also said, that we shall speak of Hostility more than once: in the hosting, according to the latest Eustat data, the incomes of 2020 have been reduced to 40%. We think the data is conservative, considering the last term has been very hard, but, well, all year's data is the official data we've got right now. 40%; no business, no sector can stand it for a long time. With that kind of lowness, we've told more than once that raw income reduces 40%, which doesn't mean the benefits are reduced to 40%, but that we go straight into the field of losses. And what do we say to these sectors? To those who sell flowers, taxis, hosts, activities connected with tourism, who are unlucky to pay their bills? In isolation, you say you have to face what you've got in an individual way, or, in some cases, from a sector? Or are we going to say that we're going to put some of the tools in our society to share and ease them, and that we don't leave the load in a few sectors? I think we should answer that question today, among other things. The question of luck is 21th. To have minimum incomes in the Basque Country? If you've been working in the compact sector, you've had a bad time, and that's all. You're the lawyer, all right, you're the lawmate, all right, you're the civil servant, your income hasn't been restricted, all right. You're the bartender, you're selling flowers, you're a cab driver, you've got a bad luck. Is that really the answer we want to put in society? Well, we don't think so. We believe that we must answer this in a collective manner, and that we must set ourselves up in an organized way to help these sectors. How many times do we hear, and say also: "We don't want to leave anybody behind." But what is that phrase? An empty slogan? Or empty slogan? Or is it a principle that will lead our activity? Well, if we don't want to leave anybody behind, the moment is now behind those damaged sectors, and there are people who can tell them a clear message: We are with you, we will protect you! Because, as a society, it's not a whim to have some small incomes, it's not a chance, it's a right. And maybe when someone hears that, somebody prepares that I'm proclaimin' communism here. No. In this society, by laws, by positive right, it is allowed, as it were, to have some small revenues of money. We've made that a right. We're not asking for help here. When people need education, we don't say they'll be able to support it from public in formation. And when people have a problem in their health, we don't say: We'll help you take care of your health. This is where we guarantee your rights. And it is true, that we push a Spanish reading of rights from the left, and in this community, as I said, it is received in the law, and there is a law to secure the revenues of money to any man. But as far as this pandemy has changed the rules, it seems as if, in the interpretation of some men, some men have been excluded from this subjective right in this society. And it is true that this law is out of normal economicised system, but now we see that several sectors of economic and productive system have remained without minimum income, because they cannot succeed by their economic activity, and we must articulate a system to guarantee minimum income in these people. And this is not understood by a capricious system of support; now, not tomorrow, we don't know the day after tomorrow, because we're talking about the rights to systemize, and rights don't depend on fortune or determination, but they have to be stable. We were talking about hospitality: 60,000 workers at the end of 2020 in the area of hospitality, 7,000 fewer than those at the beginning of the year. In other words, 7,000 jobs have already been destroyed in the area of hospitality. And, as we were told in a parliamentary committee, the representatives of one of the associations in the sector, between 12,000 and 15,000 more jobs may be affected, when normality is recovered, that is, when employment protection schemes such as the ERTE disappear, the few aids that have been but have been; when the supposed normality is recovered, still rather than being a leap forward, there is fear that some cannot cope with this situation. Therefore, we are talking about around 20,000 jobs at stake. When the Government presented its reactivation plan in September, the Berpiztu reactivation plan, to address all the problems associated with the crisis, talked about boosting 135,000 jobs, through 13.2 billion investments. I, here, will allow myself to make a little joke or a little evil: in the planned economies, there is what is called a five-year plan, where the whole economy is planned for a five-year period, during a luster, isn't there? The Basque Government makes fortnightly plans: it comes every 15 days, and it presents us with the same plan or one very similar; it plays with the figures to strike public opinion, and then comes to tell us more or less the same thing. But, by drawing up very simple accounts, and rounding up, to create 135,000 jobs, we are talking about investing 13 billion; therefore, with every million, 10 jobs would be created, at 100,000 the jobs created by this plan. When hotel associations or other political parties are demanding an investment of about 200 million to defend the 20,000 jobs we are talking about at stake, we are talking about that with every million invested 100 jobs would be saved; 10,000 jobs, compared to the 100,000 proposed in the government plan. That is to say, it is cheaper for us, and it is clear that I am simplifying and that this plan also includes another type of investment in industrial areas, which requires investment in infrastructure or more capital to create jobs. But let us understand: also in economic terms, investing is not only about guaranteeing a right, but it is about defending jobs, and keeping people within the productive economy and working people who would otherwise also be consuming resources, not for sustaining employment but for sustaining unemployment. It is therefore not only ethically necessary to support these sectors, but it is economically more convenient for us, and even cheaper. No one can stand, no one deserves to suffer, workers for guests and autonomists. No one deserves it! It's been a very hard situation on the economic plane, and it's going to be, and it's gonna be very hard on a psychological plane. Ignorance, what will be done next day and what will not be done: Whether they're going to go shopping or not, so that things don't get rotten later on in the fridges. A situation like this, I won't delay because we've mentioned them over and over for months. No one deserves it! And to-day we come with a proposition to give a solution of this situation, as has been said, of guest-friends and other matters. Today we brought an open proposal, a spring, with no figures. If you have read together the medium signed with Podemos, the medium from the original proposition which we have brought to our present day, the figures have been forced to come to terms with the kernel of the possibility. Our proposal to-day is middle-class, an appeal to conversation, and, above all, a calling for parties supporting the Government. The occasion has already answered this call of conversation. And, as I have said, we've signed up with Podemos, and PP has also given us a vote for him. The proposal, too, has been shared with several members of the hostelry, I dare say, with the principal associations, and all the associations have said that we agree with each other, hues have their own plans and proposals, and, without refusing them, they have said, "Yes": both the provincial Federations, and the SOS Hosts, agree with what is proposed and deemed a suitable starting-point. What we're proposing to-day is from the right to reduce economic activity; we say without question that health is to be made good, and it's not only for the sake of the right to be reduced, but it needs all the resources it has in the law to take if health is at stake. That can't be denied. But we think that a ransom-funts must be organized, because money is necessary, that a great deal of money is to assist the hosts and other affected sectors, a foundation must be created, to compensate for the participation of other institutions, for the losses made and suffered in 2020, because they have not disappeared, and especially for the production of a stable and distinct protection system. It can't be... Now, again, the numbers, as far as the pandemia, are getting better, and we think and we all want to be optimistic, but it's not possible if things are bent again and things are to be reduced, what we're going to do. We cannot submit to the improvisation of the government's support or protection system. This system must be clear, light, and stable, and must be guaranteed to those sector autonomists and pay-feeders of worth and minimum income. He has to answer the question of rents, and he has to complete and improve the state of the workers in the ERTUES. We've seen it lately... I think this phrase was brought up by Mr.Gajales – yes, he is here today – a few months ago in a plenary: "We have seen things that you would not believe". In recent weeks we have seen, with regard to the pandemic, things that are hard to believe. And I will not go back many months, but in the last days: We've seen health officials skip the vaccination queues. We have seen health officials who believe that it is more important to immunize the police first than the people who carry ambulances or risk groups. We have seen that, on the eve of a decisive trial for the future of measures to deal with the pandemic, the judge was saying nonsense in the media and the Basque Government's legal officer playing golf. We've seen things hard to believe but they've happened. It is also difficult to think that we can reach agreement on this issue. But, in this case, they would not, as was said this morning, be clever, but positive. Let's give society a positive surprise. We're going to do what we've been chosen for and paid for...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u112	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u113	We're going to come to an agreement that solves a problem. There are other examples in other countries and in other communities of stable and sufficient compensation systems for the sectors affected by the pandemic. If there's money, if it's any money, then we'll talk about it over the record, if there's money, but the will's gone. Well, half the road is made: it would have been worse to have a will and not to have money, because, after all, money is decisive. It's a day when you're asking people to take that will, to activate resources, and give a solution to people in a very critical situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u114	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the popular Basque Group, representative of the Ciudadans, Mrs. Larrea, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u115	Thank you. Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to thank all the people in associations who represent part of the tourism sector, who are affected and who have been seriously affected by the pandemic situation, which is causing an economic crisis, and in which they are affected. Not just them, but other sectors too. But today, Bildu has brought an initiative in which they talk about the tourism sector. Well, that's the third time we've come here to talk about a rescue, to support the hospitality, and not just the hospitality, but the whole tourism sector, which has been damaged. Damaged by an economic crisis. We are not going... and I am not going to question, today and now, the measures taken, because they have been necessary. What I come to question is that these health measures to combat the pandemic have not been accompanied by an economic plan to alleviate the consequences of the decisions being taken in the offices. I could re-explain a third time what the People's Party-Citizens approach is, but do you know what's going on?, which would be the third time already. And I repeat again: you already know what we think. We think that all the measures that have been taken and have seen... which have harmed the work of the tourism sector should be accompanied by a rescue, compensation. We are no longer talking about aid to work with the sector; we are talking about the need for these companies to be rescued, and we are saying that they must be compensated. Because, when the activity of a sector, of any sector, is prohibited, what needs to be done is compensation. And this is a right. This will surely have consequences in the courts when you prove... I don't know what they're gonna do, but it's pretty clear to me that they don't have the will. And Mr Iker Casanova has already said: there is money, what there is is no will. And you have shown that you had no will. It is true that at one point it has been possible to see how they have tried to make an effort, and have initially earmarked EUR 70 million in an aid plan for the sector, which was recently announced in 17.7... That is, 17.7 million for the tourism sector, travel agencies, buses, bus companies dedicated to events. But do you know what's going on? That is that, in the end, as these aids arrive late, they arrive at the time when businesses, small businesses (...), because all those affected by this crisis at this time and those we are specifically talking about are small businesses, are self-employed, they have five workers at most, because sometimes it is simply them who work on their premises, on their hotel premises, they have a high level of indebtedness, because they have staked everything to open their blinds day by day; we are also talking about shops. So, what less, what less!, that we here agree to make a necessary rescue. A rescue and compensation for the situations that we have caused, which have caused political decisions, decisions, perhaps, certainly – and I do not counter – necessary, but something has been lacking; economic accompaniment has been lacking. And, look, Mr Iker Casanova said: a few days ago Mrs Tapia announced a rescue of more than 400 million to the industry. Perhaps we will have to call the tourism sector, the hospitality, trade, tourism and consumption sector, "tourism and trade industry", because equally, in that way, you would come to your senses and if we put "industry" ahead, then, just as you do make a rescue plan for the sector; if you convince them, then let's do it; if the least important are the names. The important thing is the need these people are having. In his day we talked, 65,000 people affected, 65,000 families affected. Many more, not only those 65,000, are affected by not posing a serious ransom, because they are going through hardships, because now that they are opening their establishments, they bill to pay for the holes that they have generated during the previous closures, that is, they are not even working to generate a profit; they are surviving, sometimes malliving, and there are some that can't even survive. Where is the work of the Administration? Where is the work of the public, which helps the weak when they need it? Of course, I live a lot on this subject, because it gives me the feeling that it can be done but there is no will. I don't want to expand much longer, because, I think, I've said it many times before. And in view of the vital need of these people, of the people who are here today, of the people they represent and of many other people who are suffering economic hardships, it is of no use that we do a series of aids to keep them in their day-to-day lives, when what they want is to work, work and to compensate them when an injustice has been committed, not an injustice – let us see, it is normal, and I say it again that it seems normal, that closure decisions have been taken, decisions to avoid the pandemic and to avoid the contagions – and what is not normal is to have left them abandoned and what we have demanded here many times is to abandon the sector. They have come to the parliamentary seat; they have come to the committee to explain their situation. You have told us, and you have heard it here in those committees, the needs you had. For if they have told us, they have told us; let us not make deaf ears, let us hear them, and this is what I had to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u117	Well, we bring here today a matter of full relevance and, moreover, of great relevance. The hospitality sector, represented here today by different groups, has suffered, together with the small trade and other sectors that shift around them, a huge impact during 2020 and also in what we carry from 2021, mainly as a result of the pandemic. This impact has basically had two causes: the restrictions imposed to contain the health crisis, and the fall in demand for consumption, especially as a result of the collapse of tourism. A large part of the fabric of SMEs and self-employed workers faces serious difficulties in coping with costs such as renting a business premises, basic supplies or payment of certain credits contracted for the operation of the business, i.e. the fixed costs that every company must cover, and which are insurmountable to those who have seen their activity drastically reduced. It is therefore urgent to design and implement an ambitious direct aid plan, more in view of the economic and social importance of the hospitality sector in our country. From the Basque Government, several items have been launched, several lines of funding, but mainly linked to endorsements, i.e. the Basque Government, which was basically a guarantor of administration, and financial credits were granted to the most vulnerable sectors. In our view, and we have stated this more than once here when this issue has been dealt with, this can be a way, indeed, but not necessarily the only one nor should it be the priority either, because we believe that, at a time of crisis, the most vulnerable sectors can make use of these guarantees from the Administration, which basically come to support credit institutions, but they put all those sectors that make use of such guarantees or credits at serious risk, because they can enter into a debt ratio problem in the medium term. And in this respect, our demand for direct aid, in this case direct aid, not through intermediaries, such as most of the aid put in place by the Basque Government. It is not, moreover, a question that can be called innovative; it is something that is already being done, as has been said before, in many countries of our environment, and also in certain autonomous communities. This is the case in Germany, where, for example, those affected and those affected by closures receive extraordinary aid to cover the fixed costs incurred in spite of the temporary closure. These costs are approaching through sales and the reference is the average weekly billing in November 2019. It also highlights the bridge aid, a direct aid programme, of 9,000 or 15,000 euros – in this band – for micro-symes, which has been extended for the period from January 2021 to June 2021. On the other hand, in Italy companies in the subsectors subject to the new restrictions will receive non-reimbursable contributions. In the Netherlands, due to the imposition of new restrictions, the existing programme of aid to cover fixed costs, such as rents, was extended to companies with up to 250 employees. In France, aid of up to EUR 10,000 per month is allocated to bars and restaurants with less than 50 workers, which show a 70% decrease in their income levels. But closer to us, in the Autonomous Community of Valencia, a shock plan of 350 million direct aid to the sector has been put in place, which will target some 21,000 enterprises in the autonomous community, 43,000 self-employed and 144,000 workers. Shock plan financed by the Valencian Generalitat in 82% and also by a fund committed by the deputies, the municipalities and the government itself. Direct aids. United We can also yesterday presented a shock plan at the Congress of Deputies, of 8 billion euros, with the aim of generating co-financing between the autonomous communities and the Government of Spain, in order to respond to what has to do with direct aid to the sectors that are worst going on at the moment. And there was also a 12-month moratorium on suspension of obligations without interest on delay. The initiative signed by EH Bildu and by Elkarrekin Podemos-Ezker Anitza, does nothing more than focus on what we have already presented and defended in other institutions, in the state; basically, it also raises, in rather general terms, as was said, and without making numerical mentions to generate or attract support for this initiative... basically, what arises is the need for the sector to receive direct aid. Basically, that. That these direct aids be handled in an agile, stable, sufficient and agreed with the groups in defence of the hotel industry. That the financial amount is sufficient, that it is not basically a publicity announcement of refrigerated items already existing in the budget, but that a shock plan is generated at the level of the needs and the time of crisis that we are suffering. That, on the other hand, we attack or face the reduction of rent prices in the premises, as a fixed cost for the sectors that are going through the worst. Also, of course, these direct aids are conditional. It is not something that we have not mentioned on other occasions also in relation to direct aid to industry: that they are conditional on compliance with labour law, on the maintenance of employment, obviously on maintenance or on compliance with contractual conditions... Obviously, direct aid is conditional on all this. But we believe that the Basque Government, in this sense, beyond certain advertising campaigns – making use, I say, of economic items already included in the budget but which have little to do with direct aid to the sector – has not faced the situation, as we have been calling for opposition groups on various occasions within Parliament, as well as the associative fabric on countless occasions. We believe that the text signed by EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos-Ezker Anitza could have been, or should have been, a good starting point in order to be able to work together by the organisations, or rather by the political parties that we are represented here, together with the organisations in the sector. Because, I insist, and I reiterate what I have already mentioned: we are not proposing anything new; it is already being implemented in different autonomous communities of our state. Our political formation has also proposed it for the coalition government to do so. In other countries of our environment it is being done. We do not understand why here, in Euskadi, we have the capacity, in addition to the capacity to be in debt in that sense – as has been said on more than one occasion: "We will be in debt whatever it takes, to deal with the economic crisis resulting from the health crisis" –... We do not understand why the necessary resources are not being used to deal with the uncertainty, the lack of horizons, which this sector is experiencing, also bearing in mind that, at the moment, the crisis situation is also affected by temporary instruments such as ERTE. It is a good thing that we have ERTE in this case. But when these aren't, the crisis will be even worse. And, in this regard, we believe that the Basque Government has to deal with, from the leadership of the public – i.e. with public resources – and put in place the palliative elements that will allow, when the ERTEs cease to be in force, the necessary tools have already been put in place and the sector does not suffer, even more, the crisis that is already suffering today. So, basically, we call for the Basque Government to put in place direct lines of aid to the hotel industry and to all sectors indirectly involved in the crisis that is going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u118	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Passing on to the line that hasn't been running, Mistto, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Firstly, all Vox's support for the hoteliers and sectors affected by this pandemic. Go ahead, go ahead, go ahead, go ahead, go ahead, go ahead, go I would like these brief words to be taken into account by all those affected by the crisis, by those suffering from the pandemic and seeing that their way of life is wrecked by the inaction and empty promises of most politicians. Bildu's proposal, as well as those added to the addiction amendment, is commendable, and it is because it puts on the table issues beneficial to a hit sector. Now, as long as we are in a Parliament and not in a contest of good intentions, yours, too, is that we say things as they are. What are Bildu's plans to make this fund possible? What about Podemos? That's what we'd like to know. The question, then, is: how to pay that debt? Very simple – they will answer – a tax reform that expresses to the richest, and all arranged. The macroeconomic problem is not always two plus two equals four. With their tax projects, they would not be able to attract money, rather on the contrary, and in the face of little collection, they would do what they always do: attack the middle classes, autonomous classes and SMEs, again. We have heard about the COVID-19 fund of 200 million, but it is that the only group that has the resources located or at least – let's say – without resorting to more debt to be able to start distributing aid, is Vox, and the formula is simple: cut into political, ideological and superfluous spending. We believe that there is a way, because Vox's voice is the same throughout the territory, and we propose that the Administration be brave, but without mortgageing our future, and it is that there are cuts, cuts that can be made and that are there in fact. We have the model, for example, of the United States; it will move around 12% of GDP in direct aid to businesses and families. Since we do not have much time, I will simply outline some Vox proposals, which could be put into effect now: 100 % compensation for the forced closure, I repeat, compensation; 100 % rent aid and mortgages for all businesses with a 50 % drop in turnover; suspend, of course, the subscription of autonomous quotas; reduce VAT, and, of course, direct aid to families and workers, to equal their monthly pre-pandemic incomes. There are many more initiatives, but not so time. Vox's priority has always been early morning Spain, and I also say this with knowledge of cause, since I also run a business, as you very well know, and I am suffering, in the first person, the problems that this pandemic is generating, mainly due to the forced closure of the blinds of our businesses and the subsequent restrictions on trade. We keep paying taxes; we keep paying rents, and nobody does anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u120	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u121	Thank you, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen; good afternoon. All the guests too, good afternoon. The original initiative that Euskal Herria Bildu – and by the way, welcome Mr. Casanova, we are glad that you are well and also Mrs. Iriarte –... The initiative that Euskal Herria Bildu resubmits in the Basque Parliament shows that its intention is not to seek a comprehensive agreement that makes it viable, but is part of Bildu's tactic of reiterating initiatives already discussed to make them visible on an ongoing basis, even if they are rejected initiatives after debate. This initiative is not only similar to that presented by Bildu, which was debated and rejected in October, and in which we also approved, by the way, at that time, the Basque Government's commitment to maintain and increase the extraordinary and ordinary aid, adapting it to the circumstances resulting from the pandemic. This original initiative is also similar to that presented by another group in November, which led to the adoption of the amendment by the groups that we support the Government, pointing out the actions of the inter-institutional bureau and the governmental commitment to maintain relations with the sectors most affected by the measures against the pandemic. Moreover, this original initiative is a budgetary amendment by Euskal Herria Bildu, which was discussed and rejected in the two budgetary debates that we have had in this House: first, on the occasion of the debate on the amendments as a whole, and then in the debate on the partial amendments last week. And it is not only a failed repetitive initiative, but in last week's Committee on Tourism, Commerce and Consumption it was described as insufficient by the associations of hospitality entrepreneurs in Álava, Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia, in terms of the creation of a 200 million euro fund. There are therefore few developments to be made in today's debate that we have not already spoken for just eight days and also on many occasions. For this reason, we will take advantage of this new opportunity provided by Basque Socialists, Euskal Herria Bildu, to reiterate that in order to achieve the fundamental objectives that are reflected and developed in the government agreement and in the government programme, which are to ensure the health of citizens, economic recovery and employment and to leave no one behind, the Basque Government has been implementing various measures to help alleviate the effects that have had and are causing the COVID-19 pandemic in the Basque economy. The Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs has led, from institutional respect, the inter-institutional and interdepartmental bureau that coordinated the interventions and support of the various institutional levels in Euskadi, in order to make the plans, aids and actions more effective and efficient in the areas of their management responsibility. In addition, the Basque Government has aligned and coordinated its resistance plans with the plans of other administrations, such as the Government of Spain, and has participated in the Euskadi Next, so that the sectors and subsectors most affected by the crisis will also benefit from European funds. The Basque Socialists believe that, since the declaration of the global pandemic and the state of alarm with a dissolved Parliament and before the July 2020 elections, the Basque Government has already taken steps to facilitate aid to the productive sectors that had seen their activities limited by the pandemic. And, after the elections, the new Basque Government and the Basque Parliament have continued to promote and implement extraordinary and ordinary measures and aid also, through resistance plans, and initiatives and commitments have been put forward to continue working in the phase of resistance for the maintenance of activity and employment in the sectors and subsectors most affected by the health measures implemented against the pandemic. The Basque Government is proposing, from the outset, a plan for economic, social and business aid, a battery of measures amounting to EUR 841 million. A financial support programme for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and self-employed enterprises (SMEs) is proposed, with EUR 500 million, a financial support programme for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) through the Basque Institute for Finance, financing lines costs, aid for the purchase of surplus production of perishable first-production products, exceptional aid for individual entrepreneurs, R & D+i projects related to the fight against coronavirus, as well as a series of measures aimed at enterprises and self-employed persons not included in the SME programme. A package of aid of EUR 2,645,000 is also being launched to support the cultural sector in view of the consequences of the situation of alarm and health emergency. Through the Social Dialogue Bureau, ERTE was supplemented for workers earning less than 20,000 euros. The Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs, in 2020, has mobilised more than €70 million in aid and subsidies in this phase of resistance. 30 million in the hospitality aid programme for 12,200 self-employed, micro and small businesses. EUR 25 million in extraordinary aid to cover all the applications, around 10,000, of tourist and hospitality companies and commercial establishments, to cover both their operating and current costs as well as those of renting or mortgages, stocks and products, quotas, etc., at the time when their establishments remained closed. EUR 8 million has been mobilised in regular aid adapted to the new circumstances. EUR 5.7 million in consumer bonds, in addition to an increase in subsidies to hospitality associations of 246 %, and other subsidies to associations and federations. One fact that reflects the size of the Government's aid action is the fact that, in the first 100 days of the new Government, the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs had doubled its budget to help the tourism, trade and hospitality sectors. In addition, the Berpiztu Plan for the Reactivation of Employment was approved, and ERTE was extended at the Social Dialogue Bureau, the complements of the ERTE in Euskadi. And one thing the Socialists want to make clear is that aid does not end in 2020, as your original initiative says, Mr Casanova. That is why we approved a week ago a budget for Euskadi 2021, which contains the COVID-19 programme, a budget programme of measures against the crisis caused by COVID-19 and which is endowed with 542.7 million euros. In addition, on 26 January, the Department of Tourism and Trade presented the Tourism Support Plan, with 21 million euros, Mrs Larrea, which contains direct aid amounting to 18 million euros, and 3 million euros for the promotion and dynamism of the tourism sector. In addition, the tourism bonus, which was outstanding last year, with EUR 2 million, will be launched when mobility circumstances permit. And he also announced the Councillor, Mr Hurtado, the development of two new support plans for the subsectors of trade and hospitality, sharing with the casuistic representatives and conditions that are most effective for the time and circumstances in which we are. In June, 8,900 applications for aid, 5,120 from the tourism sector and 3,780 from the trade sector were accepted by the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption, and a more agile handling of new hospitality aid was promoted. Those of November, that 30 million euros, registered 9,850 applications, and had already been accepted 60%, 5,400. The leadership of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs in the creation of the inter-agency and inter-departmental table, consisting of several departments of the Basque Government, the three outlaws and the three municipalities of the Basque capitals, is also important. This is a body for coordinating actions, programmes and measures, which set up three technical bureaux for economic measures, promoting and raising awareness of the sector and speeding up administrative procedures. In addition, the Department of Commerce and Consumer Tourism has promoted the inter-institutional web platform, which brings together all the public aids activated in the Basque Country for the support of the tourism, hospitality and trade sectors, in order to facilitate access to the set of aids and subsidies that are being allocated and have been allocated by the various Basque administrations. We would also like to highlight the aid and measures which the outside parliaments have established, mainly in the area of taxation, over the past year, and which they have agreed to extend for this year, 2021. Very important also in order to be able to establish these measures was the agreement of the Joint Committee on Economic Concert, in terms of the deficit and the capacity to indebtedness of the outside bodies; indebtedness which, in both 2020 and 2021, has facilitated the actions of the Basque municipalities in favour of the sectors most affected by the pandemic. In addition, your parliamentary group... Mr Casanova, because they have told you in writing from the Department of Labour and Employment, in March special aid was promoted for self-employed or self-employed persons whose activities had been suspended as a result of the declaration of state of alarm. Aid subsidizing social security contributions and leases for the two months following the end of the state of alarm. The aid was published in April, with a budget of 3 million, and increased to 16 on 25 May. A total of 6,389 aid was granted, for an average amount of EUR 2,512, for the majority of aid, 80.9%, for food and beverage services and retail trade. I am not going to give any more details of this, because the next item on the agenda is the issue of the self-employed. Conclusion: the support policies of the Basque Government have aligned themselves with the policies of the Spanish Government; not only because, from the beginning of the pandemic, initiatives such as the ERTE have enabled the economic and personal situations of very complicated SMEs and self-employed people to be overcome, but also because plans have been being put in place to strengthen hospitality, tourism and trade, which, without a doubt, have been well coordinated, with the measures implemented from Euskadi, have made it possible to overcome, or to overcome, the situation of thousands of people in more favourable conditions for the maintenance of employment and their activity; the activity of SMEs, self-employed people and Basque enterprises. The actions and resistance plans of the Basque Government have therefore been launched from the very beginning. Not as you said on your initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u122	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u123	Yeah, I'm done right now. Efforts in inter-departmental and inter-agency initiatives and actions have been, are and will be the necessary framework of work and collaboration to help those groups that are experiencing the worst. I just have to regret, Mr Casanova, that your compromise amendment did not even send it to us by mail. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening, sir, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoons, and particularly welcome to the associations which have come to you today. Sanitary, social and economic is difficult. And as I said the other day, to make use of the challenge there is enough for us to look at international situation. People who do not have the same conception of freedom and China anticipate us. And not only this, but conflicts about Europe and the surrounding world: On the Baltic, in Biolarus, in Ukraine... And besides, the strategic context: Europe has to act in this direction more and more rapidly (financial, pandemia, manipulation of information, dependence on Beijing in the basic goods, and even health, beginning with supplies). So we're creating new challenges, new and more confusing situations every day, which are not left in the simple arguments of liberalism or communism. And Euskadin is the same, it's a difficult situation. And here I agree with the reading of EH Collect: we have a difficult situation. But in the case of new situations and challenges, I am convinced that we need solutions from the union. So we need more reviews and that's what I'm trying to convince you that EH Collect would not agree with the reviews that have been done to you. Mr Casanova, we can share the diagnosis, but not the exits to the problem and the ways in which they arise. In any case, I too am convinced that the situation is serious and urgent. We live at a time when we have to discern very well what is urgent and what is important. And at this moment we must face, without delay, what is urgent, but without losing sight of what is important. Because it is not only about saving the present from our commerce and our hospitality, but also preparing it for situations that may come in the future. And no, it's not just about innovation, Mr. Soto. It is about dealing with this complicated situation. The government, to face this situation, places resources on the table. For that, for example, a week ago's budget to protect people and to push the economy into many sectors of today's history. Our goal has always been the same; I said it in my previous appearance: in this crisis, our goal has been to keep the country open, because what the hospitality, the trade, the travel agencies want, is to work, and what the young people want is to go to class to study face-to-face. And so has our bet, always maintaining a balance between health, social and economic. And so said the lehendakari: "Personal health and economic health. This is the common good shared." And when it has not been possible, we have supported, and will continue to support, the sectors most affected. This Government, since the beginning of the first wave of this pandemic, has always been accompanying and assisting the affected sectors, SMEs and the self-employed, who have unfortunately been the most able to acknowledge the effects this situation is having. This virus has hit our productive tissue hard, and the consequences are being tougher than originally predicted there by March. No one was prepared, and no one knows how far this situation will go either. There is uncertainty, yes, but we are certain that the Basque Executive will continue to cover and meet the needs of all companies in the new scenarios that can be given. The instrument we are discussing today deals with the creation of a compensation and rescue fund, originally for various sectors affected by the crisis. Since 2020, the Basque Government has been working in this direction, implementing from public institutions certain extraordinary measures, aimed at mitigating the damage caused by the health crisis in the business fabric of Euskadi, as proposed by Podemos in its amendment, with strict compliance with labour and sectoral regulations, as it cannot otherwise be. For this, some examples. And I am not going to extend, since Mrs Corcuera, the speakers who have spoken before me, have already explained it, although it is curious that for some in this House it seems that the model to follow is that of the Valencian Community. Eta hasiko naiz. On the one hand, the financing line via Elkargi, in the amount of EUR 1 billion, effective for the objective being pursued, which was nothing other than to meet the liquidity tensions of the companies, which, being profitable, had experienced a sharp fall in their portfolios or were at risk of being insolvent. The aim, therefore, was to ensure the solvency of viable companies, and to cover the fixed structural costs of companies, so that the Basque business fabric is not damaged. Therefore, when we say that we must be close to companies, we do; but, yes, without stigmatizing large companies. Euskadi has a business fabric of SMEs, of working people, with which we connect and to whom we will dedicate our efforts. Possibility that, in times of crisis like the current one, business projects have continuity is part of our DNA. And now it is time to extend this funding to 2021, to replenish SMEs, and individual and self-employed entrepreneurs, since, unfortunately, the pandemic has not given us a truce, a programme on which we are working and which will be launched as soon as possible. More. The 2021 budget, adopted on 11 February. It includes the negligible amount of 140 million for extraordinary actions, and envisages new actions for the most punished sectors, and a programme of stimulus to various sectors, worth 15 million euros, in the Department of Consumer Affairs, Commerce and Tourism. All this within the COVID programme, endowed with 542 million, to which you have said no. In January, new support measures were announced for the tourism sector, 21 million euros, pioneers including travel agencies. Aid in addition to the 70 million of the 2020 Resistance Plan. But the Councillor has already announced that they are working on a plan for the most affected sectors of trade, and a new programme of aid for Basque hospitality. Plans that are being worked out, as always, with sectoral associations. Gehiago. The Small Trade Revitalisation Plan, with €7 million; the modernisation of establishments, with €1.4 million, or the campaign to enhance Basque trade, with €600,000. Also, the programmes approved in the Council of the Basque Institute of Finance, which, in financing tools, has 124 million euros, and for business participations, has about 190 million euros. In addition, aid from the Department of Employment and Labour, as already mentioned by Mrs Corcuera, subsidies for social security contributions and aid for the rental of business premises. The special aid for integration firms and special employment centres, as well as the supplements to the ERTE, again extended by this Government. And it could continue with more sectors not expressly mentioned in its initiative, such as the cultural sector, or the 68 support programmes for the SMEs in Euskadi, with a budget of 430 million euros from the Department of Economic Development, Sustainability and the Environment. Thus, though it is a very difficult situation, and sharing the diagnosis, it is plain that there is no need for the Copernical rotation of the government's position. There are resources: It's clear that we have to keep working, but that's what the approved budgets will help us with, so that we can give the resources a lot of sectors. We have a funding and plans that we're discussing today planned in the budgets that have been released or removed by a lot of departments. There is also in October the legislature which adopted the initiative on the 29th of the law-place, on the 29th of the Egeavine, which goes in the same line as today, and is produced by the like initiative EH Collect brought to this gathering. So, by this initiative, and even more after the half-way I've seen, what are we going to ask for, besides the one we asked for in October? Let them do what they're preparing? The aim of the parliamentary initiatives is to boost the Government's action; but in this case, we would be driving an executive that is going faster than we are, which is already drawing up the action plans. He might understand that when the Basque Government published its programmes, changes or improvements would be promoted, but not now, when the Basque Government is already preparing its programmes, when the Basque Government already knows the opposition's proposals, because what EH Bildu is proposing to us today is still the extension of what is proposed to the Basque Government in the budgetary negotiation and what EH Bildu already proposed in its October 2020 initiative. We are therefore discussing something that is already known to the Basque Government, what we know is that the Basque Government is already working on and what, if we adopt an initiative, we would not be pushing for any new government action. In any case, this was made known by the adviser, Mr Hurtado: his department is ready to listen to his more concrete ideas and proposals, and he was transferred on February 5th at the last full checkpoint, just 10 days. Put your hand down. An example of a government willing to cooperate and dialogue, which led me to hope that the content of this initiative would be presented and presented by EH Bildu to the Basque Government and, therefore, that the debate on this initiative in this House would be postponed at least for the time being. But that has not been the case: neither the proposals presented to the councillor nor the postponed debate. But not only that, this morning I found that we were almost being exposed to an agreement. Were they referring to the agreement between EH Bildu and Podemos? And if not, then what did they mean by a hotel agreement? To announce an agreement, through a press conference, when the Basque Government has offered to cooperate, the hand extended, is at least surprising. You do not address the Department of Commerce of the Basque Government or the parliamentary groups that support the Government; you do not inform us or present your proposals: you directly intend to go to a press conference. What did you intend, at the press conference, when you know perfectly well that the government is working on this aid with sectoral partners and, in this case, with hospitality? Is this your model of interaction? Is this the definition of your neighborhood? I hope that, while we do not share the solution on this point, they do share the framework that we propose from our group and the Basque Socialists for the next item on the debate. And, finally, and talking about transactions and deals. I have read your transaction, and you reminded me of Mrs Kortajarena and the aspirational decline. What is your original initiative in this transaction? A very concrete and detailed initiative, which remains in this transaction in pure vagaries: they no longer request in this transaction all the specific aid that counted on their original initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u126	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u127	Just for the sake of knowing, because you don't have that flexibility with EAJ and the government, so I'm surprised at your behavior. Eta, azkenik, gauza bat Bakarrik. Curious, too, that this transaction is supposed to have squeezed and been more belligerent, because with this they intended to open the doors to dialogue, right? You said so, Mr. Casanova. You have grace because it seems that only your dialogue serves you and not the predisposition of the Councillor and the Government; it seems that this hand stretched out is not worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Passing on the day's answers, representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u129	If the proposals are concrete, because they are too concrete and we give them all the facts; if they are opened a little bit to point out the central points and give more scope to be able to reach agreements, it is that they are indefinite and we lower aspirations. Either we ask a lot or we ask little: the question is never to agree. If EH Bildu makes a very concrete proposal, because obviously the possibilities can be limited: if we start talking about 1,200 euros, 1,400 euros, from what size of establishment and more... We have wanted to focus the debate and the fundamental issues, and one of the fundamental issues is that a system is created that gives security and stability in support to the sectors concerned. Because I, several questions – I am going to start with Mrs Corcuera – and first, a clarification: Euskal Herria Bildu's proposal in the budgets was not described as insufficient by the hospitality associations; they asked for clarification on how it was going to materialise – I was not present, but I followed it by streaming; if we want to consult the transcript. But, in any case, in this particular proposal, both the hotel associations of Bizkaia, Gipuzkoa and Araba and the associations of SOS Ostalaritza have expressed to us in private – and they have said that they will do so in public – their support for the proposal, in case you are interested. But I'm going to tell you something else: look, you've made a list of different initiatives that have been taken over these months, and I just don't know how to answer anymore, because I'm going to ask you a question: do you know any hospitality associations that are happy with what the government is doing? Do you know any hoteliers who are satisfied and tell you that, in fact, things have already been done well? When you speak of the repetition of initiatives on our part, I do not take it as a waste, but rather as an honour, because we are not only going to continue to repeat, we have not only reiterated this proposal, but we are going to continue to repeat it. How long? Until the problem is solved. Do you really believe that the actions carried out by the Government have already solved the problem? No, right? It is therefore absolutely appropriate to continue to put forward specific proposals in a body such as Parliament, which has, among other things, that role, so that this can be done. I would also like to make a number of nuances on issues that have not been raised today, but which have been put on the table in the social debate on the question of hospitality in the media and so on. The hotel industry today has an average of 4.5 workers per establishment; 4.5 on average. That means that, given the distortion generated by a small number of establishments with a greater number of workers, the reality of the vast majority of establishments in the sector is that we are talking about 2, 3, 4 people. They are very small establishments, they are not giant, they are not great empories; they are very small people, very modest, generally autonomous with a small, very small, number of employees. Therefore, neither lobby nor ability to condition anything: they are a very atomized and very small sector. And secondly, it is true that there are other sectors affected, and we understand the fight in defense of hospitality not as an element to take away attention to other sectors that are also having a bad time, but precisely as an element of traction; because, given the volume and social impact of this problem, we want to focus on hospitality, but all the measures we put forward are extendable to any other sector that is in a similar situation. Today, all the opposition has joined together here, and associations in the sector have also joined together. They have joined because there is a demand that is not yet met. Last year, the Basque Government spent 100 million euros in the areas of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs. 100 million spent! This year, the budget does not reach 50. So, of course, there is a problem here. And you say "we're working", "we're preparing"; if we anticipate, you say we're coming very soon; if we do it after the government has submitted the plans, we say they're coming very late. You obviously want to do things without anyone, but it's no longer that I'm worried that you won't count on me, because that comes within reasonable limits, with opposition groups, but it's that the industry's own associations are telling you. You speak of a flood of aid and a flood of certainties, which the affected and affected do not know. It's just that you were here last week calling for action. Last week! And there was another one of the associations a few months ago. They're telling you in public and in private. So you have not tabled any amendments, either because you are solving the problem, or because you are directly scorning this Parliament as a framework for giving the debates. You have absolute majority, you have absolute majority! I will tell you a secret: I would also like my group to have an absolute majority; I would like to. And you have the legitimacy of using that absolute majority to carry on a political agenda. That's what we'd do. But the absolute majority, although legitimate, also has its limitations. Because there are issues that require a social consensus, beyond some parliamentary arithmetic. Because there are decisions that will temporarily affect different generations, and because sometimes there is a clear distortion – of which you have to be aware – between the decisions that the parliamentary majority are making and the social feeling. And the social feeling is that there are sectors that are not sufficiently supported, and it is the feeling of those sectors, and I believe that of society as a whole. Therefore, they do not turn their absolute majority into an absolutist majority, which are different things. Listen to Parliament, listen to the opposition. Then they will make the decisions and, indeed, I recognize that they have legitimacy for it, but listen, attend and respond to a demand, which I believe is unsatisfied...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u130	Please finish. ... and is the demand that those sectors of society affected by the pandemic be able to have economic security and have a clear, stable and sufficient programme of aid for their own survival in material terms. I don't think that's so much what we're asking.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u131	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. The Basque Popular Group, representative of Ciudadnos, Mrs. Larrea, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u132	It's been repeated here that this... Bildu's initiative today was not a new initiative. Why? Why isn't it new? Why does it have to be discussed again? Well, because there is a sector that is asking you to know..., Mr Iker Casanova has already said, that last week he came to committee, to parliamentary office, to say that they did not agree with what was being done, that they were asking for something more, that... It's not that they asked, it's that they need it, okay? But, of course, as they need it, because every time we bring it, we have to discuss it, because here we always come to talk about the needs of the citizens, of the citizens or of the sector that needs it. But I ask one question: how many companies in the tourism sector have disappeared, since the first debate on a GNP similar to this one in October? How many are going to disappear the next time we bring him back to debate this headquarters? It's just that that's the big problem: it's not within your priorities; it's not. You defend yourself in the majority that you have with your support, the PNV with the support of the Socialist Party, and you strive zero, zero, to help the sector. And, of course, what have been the priorities? And, look at me, every time I talk to someone in the sector, he says, "Oh, what's going on, there's more places of free designation? In January are the salaries increased?" Well, it's not fair. I understand them when they make me those kind of replicas, because they're on ERTE, many of the ERTE are on the table, and they haven't resolved yet; so, we have people who aren't charging in their homes, who can't work because there isn't enough work, and it turns out there's a salary increase here. Well, this is very unfair; this is what cannot be allowed. And I understand when people make such demands, because what do you answer them?, what do you tell them?, that we don't listen to them?, that nothing happens? Of course it happens, and they suffer. And it has already been said, and I said it in my previous speech: the data is very good, but, of course, you have to be there at the foot of the cannon. And, of course, you will tell me that you have a direct talk with the tourism sector; but, look, here we have representatives of one of the hospitality associations – I don't see any more, but, of course... yes, well, I don't see you but I think you are from a single hospitality association – (Goiko tribunara begiratu du). - No, no, no, But, look, do you know what's going on? That they feel unheard, is that the truth is that they feel abandoned. They have needs, and we are here and we have to try to solve them. And when you go and you say, "Hey, how are you? How are you going to spend the month?", they say "the aid that has been granted has not yet been resolved, which is already granted, but it has not yet been resolved since March." In March it was normal for us not to be prepared for this situation, but in November we should have had a rescue plan prepared, because we already knew what we were going to do. And that's the big problem; that's the big problem that a sector that is totally abandoned has. And, really, don't lose the thread of the street; remember that we are here thanks to them, and these things pass bill, and they are not thought untouchable, that when you do things... He does not do things with excellence – he was no longer asking them well – for this is paid and rightly so. I hope you've taken good note.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u134	Anyone would say that we live in the country of lollipops, because the degree of complacency that has been verbalised here in relation to aid to the sector is, of course, mind-blowing. From our group, we consider that the consideration of direct aid by the Basque Government is only applied in one sense, and it is in that of, of course, the deductions to the large corporations; because, recently, a study by the majority union of this country came out, which stated that, of the 1,295 million profits of the large companies in this country, only 98.7 million, of 1,295 have been collected; that is, of the corporation tax, basically through the large corporations, 7% is collected: that, yes, they are direct aid, the large deductions applied by the institutional framework of this country in relation to the large corporations. Of course, if there is clear evidence, today expressed by the representatives of the hospitality sector, it is that there is still a need, because, as both Mr Casanova and Mrs Larrea have already verbalized here, if there were no such need, what sense would we have to bring this issue back here, none! And believe me, we have no desire to come here to verbalize what is already solved; if so, we would not do it, but here it seems, by the phrase that is so handy and so famous of "we are working on it", that with that one remains at ease. I mean, we're working on it, and that's it. Well, tell me what direction we are working on, because, of course, in view of the lines of work that have been addressed over the past year, and we have had a year of pandemics, of course, the solutions put in place have not prevented the loss of employment in the sector, nor the destruction of business in the hotel industry, nor their insecurity, nor their constant interest and demand for more direct aid. So, if that need continues to exist, it continues to be on the table, how is it possible that you come out here to say that, basically, everything is done, that everything is done! And, if it is not all done, let us agree both with the sectors that call for greater aid and with all the groups represented here in a working direction, but come here to read a list of the projects that the Basque Government is already implementing, that all of them as a whole, of course, have not given the solutions that are being requested by the sector, that is evidence, right?; because, if all these items had given effective solutions to the problem, – I insist – we would not be talking about it today. And, therefore, I consider that there is a rather important degree of complacency. It was said, "Why are we looking at Valencia?" Well, Valencia and the countries in our environment and all the initiatives that may have worked or that may work. I don't know why there's so much fear of looking at models that might be working elsewhere. Anyway... I mentioned Valencia, basically, because there is a direct aid shock plan of 334 million. Finally, in any case, we believe that, in view of the attitude, by the interventions of the parties that support the Government..., this issue will probably continue to be brought to debate in this Parliament, because we do not perceive, from our group, much encouragement either for the agreement or for listening or for applying concrete solutions that will give way to the demands that are currently being put on the table. And I say: I believe that the priorities and the urgency, which we were talking about, because, yes, they seem to be others, they seem to be others!, in view of the economic amounts that the budget that has been signed before is intended, in this case, for shock plans aimed at the hospitality; we are talking about the generic departure of the COVID from the budget, but tell me, about that economic amount, in particular, what economic amount refers to the maintenance of employment and the productive fabric linked to the hospitality and the indirect sectors. Tell me, because they say: 500 million... Yes, 500 million, in generic terms; but, of that, specifically, what is addressed, and in terms of what, to the hospitality and the sectors indirectly involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u135	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mists... ? Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u136	... Madam President. I am going to be very brief right now, because I believe that everything that has to be said, basically, has already been said. One thing is obvious: the government has taken decisions to close trade and hospitality, and not the virus – I think it has, right?– Article 106.2 of the Constitution provides that "individuals, in the terms established by law, shall be entitled to compensation for any injury they suffer in any of their property and rights (...), provided that the injury is caused by the operation of public services". Obviously, the damage is caused by the decisions taken by the Government, which means that it will have to be responsible for these decisions. What I am against is what Bildu has said, and that is that we do not consider that we need to extend the debt further, but to cut political and superfluous spending, which I think that would give for that and much more. That is why, in this compromise, we will vote for abstention.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u137	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u138	Yes, thank you, President. Mr Casanova, I am starting from a fact, and I was in that committee present: he was thanked by the entrepreneurs of the Alavesa hotel industry, one by one, to each of the opposition groups, for their amendments on the subject of the hotel industry, and they were described as insufficient. Thank you and insufficient; read the record, and I will pass you the sheet of that record right now. All right, let's focus... Look, for us, and I said this in that appearance, the Socialists take care of the difficult situation that certain sectors are going through, in connection with the measures being implemented by the pandemic, to avoid the pandemic, of the COVID-19. We are the first; the adviser and the Basque Government are the first. And what do we tell those people? That the answer lies in the aid that is being worked on on a continuous basis. This has not stopped; no one in the Basque Government has said that this has stopped. The resistance plans and support from the various departments are present, day by day, working with the sectors concerned. Therefore, stop demagogying. Because they say it in their original initiative: "There are no initiatives, no aid and, moreover, they have stopped." That is to say, absolute contradiction, but they say so; therefore, there has been aid, there is aid, there will be aid and, moreover, shared with the sector... Like it or not. First of all, they can bring as many initiatives as they want to this Parliament; they are in their legitimate right – as I am going to deny – but they do not want us to tell them different things and we do not "let them" – we read, sorry – the list of aid. Listen, but how are we not going to read them the help list if they say there aren't. We will have the right of the groups that support the Government to say what this Government is doing, has done and will do to help those sectors, or not!Is that what you're talking about? Secondly, this is not a whimsical system of ad hoc aid; it is aid, it is resistance plans, and it is programmes already specified in budgets. Budgets, by the way, which no opposition group supported. The three, the opposition groups, rejected the budgets for 2021, budgets adapted to the situation of COVID, with a programme of €542.7 million specifically for the COVID programme, with 140 million for unforeseen cases or needs that might arise and that were not foreseen in the departments. So: those are the budgets, those you rejected, those in your amendment to the whole have only two lines dedicated to those sectors that worry you so much. I will not deny that you do not worry, but you do not deny me, or the Government, that we are not working for those sectors, because that is not true. That's not true! And if you wanted to put the rag on, we've already entered it. That's not true, Mr. Casanova. No one says that the sectors concerned deserve the situation, but how are we going to say that, but in what head it fits, because everyone, or almost everyone, we have family, friends, who are going through very complicated, very complicated situations of loss of course to start having a first job, with loss and closure of their business, with very bad eyes on them. And what do you think, that we're profiled? And what do we tell them we're not doing anything? Well, that's not true. That's not true! It will be able to qualify and make the political value or the political judgment that it may seem to them insufficient, that it seems to them insufficient, perfectly acceptable, but do not say that there is no aid, do not say that there is no programme, do not say that there is no commitment, because the commitment is with these sectors from the first day; the diagnosis is shared with them, the circumstances and conditions for such aid are elaborated, in order to bring them forward. That's done with those sectors. And they may find it insufficient. But, Mrs Larrea, speaking of other issues, which you have taken up on the subject of tourism, and we are not talking exclusively about tourism in this initiative; we are talking about the sectors most affected by the pandemic. And, look, so much is your concern that your amendment, the one that presented to the original initiative of Euskal Herria Bildu, the four points it contains are what the advisor is doing, is what the tourism, trade and consumption advisor is doing: Direct aid, improvements in financing lines – by the way, Mr Soto, as in Spain, with ICO lines, equal, extension of amortisation, flexibility of the repayment period and increase or increase of such aid, of the lines, like Elkargi, equal; let's see if we know already–... direct aid, improvements in funding lines, bonuses and tax exemptions – what do you think, Mrs Larrea, that outlaws are doing? What do you think the outlaws are doing?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. What have they done in 2020? What do you have prepared in the 2021 extension? Secondly, they urge the Government to maintain direct contact with employers in the sector. Hey!, you pass the schedule of when you meet with them, because there are some who should not know. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u139	Quiet, please. Carmelo, please, silence... Barrio, please, you're "hunting" today. Silence. [[Barres]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u140	When you can't argue, you interrupt, and that's a little bit better. Mr Casanova, one thing worries me: you talk about salary approach, and you don't talk about social concertation. And that worries me, because I believe that social dialogue is the first thing to achieve broad agreements. And there's something I'm going to put in front of you: how can you come to say here that you bring this new compromise proposal with Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita because you want to reach an agreement? With us? Look, you didn't send me an e-mail, it's that you didn't call me, it's that I heard about the transactional amendment when the ujier gave it to us. But you think you can make deals here, from you to you, so, from the seat and we do it by signs. How's it going? You know, when you want to come to an agreement, how to do it and with whom to do it. And you, on this occasion, have not. So, absolute demagogy...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u141	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u142	... and the one who lacks democracy is you, who does not respect. For me, you can bring as many initiatives as you want, but that you bring initiatives that are rejected debate behind debate, that seems to me to be missing democracy, or at least not accepting the outcome. And you know a lot about that because you're wearing a few. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Silence, Casanova... Eubertarians. Mrs. Bergeralbuz, your word is yours. You've had your time, Mr. Casanova. Okay. Okay!! Mrs. Bergeralbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u144	Thank you, Mr. President. We have not said that everything is right and that nothing needs to be done. Don't misrepresent my words. I have outlined what the Basque Government has done: the plans and programmes implemented and those planned. Because, according to his initiative, the Basque Government had done nothing. And that's not true. Therefore, what I come here to do is to clarify it. And little complacency. What's there is work, and a lot. And the problems are not solved by bringing an initiative to this House, I do not know, n times, but by working from union and construction. As much as they are repeated and repeated, the problem is not going to be solved this way, but working, and with plans and programmes. And if you have any questions, I would advise you to read the report of the Basque Economic and Social Council, dated 3 December 2020, which contains all of the Basque programmes in various areas to alleviate the impact of COVID. No complacency. It is time for structural measures, to support the competitiveness of businesses and to support the maintenance of business structures. Measures must be promoted to promote the liquidity of businesses and, above all, to prevent the destruction of employment. We have to face the... We must build consumer confidence and activate local consumption. Commitment must begin with oneself, it must be individual, and then social. From an institutional point of view, decisions must be taken in a variety of areas: on taxation, on lost in-depth aid, on financing for affected sectors by ensuring their survival, on leases and so on. We all would like more resources, but it's a difficult situation. Not all desire is fulfilled, even if it was good. necessity is great, and means necessarily limited. Therefore, we must be efficient, prioritize, be good managers and be coordinated between the different institutions. Institutional cooperation is needed between the Basque Government, the outlaws and the municipalities, which, by the way, have also approved specific plans for trade, e.g. via Bono Denda, and also for hospitality, through complementary aid at the municipal level. Aid to the hospitality sector, also through the non-payment of certain fees. And here I link it with the amendment of the Basque People-Citizens Group. The failure to charge municipal fees in relation to the public use of the terrace space or garbage rates, classifying them as non-activity accommodation facilities, thus reducing the tax cost. Also in the outlaws, with extraordinary tax measures to deal with the impact of COVID on the economy. And not only do we work to reduce the tax burden in our area of competence, but also, gentlemen of the Basque People-Citizens Group, we work for it in the state. During 2020, the Congress discussed the reduction of the VAT rate applied to health products – also discussed in this House – in the tourism sector, hairdressers, veterinary services and a long time ago. I encourage you, gentlemen of the People-Citizens Group, to work in Madrid for the modification of the Economic Concert, to agree on all taxes, including new taxes, and in particular that VAT is our responsibility. Fight for a greater self-government of Euskadi. And so we can attend to your requests. Because the more resources and tools we have, the better we can deal with this pandemic. Because this virus has hit our productive tissue hard, and the consequences are being tougher than originally anticipated in March. Since the beginning of the first wave of the pandemic, this Government has always been accompanying and assisting SMEs and self-employed people, who have unfortunately been the ones who have been most able to accuse the effects of this very complicated situation. And an example of this support, as I said in my first speech, if you wish, Mr Soto, with complacency, is the new financial programme, the aid to the sectors most affected, complements the ERTs. Curious that We can fuck and ask to increase the complement to ERTS. Aurrera, egin, posetu zuek Espainiako Gobernuan. Do not campaign here for what you do not raise in your Government. Beyond that, the Basque Government, the COVID programme, with a budget of 542 million, which includes the provision of 140 aid to various sectors as a whole, Mr Soto. Because today we are not only discussing aid for hospitality, but for sectors affected by the crisis as a whole. And, along with these economic resources, resources that we rely on thanks to the good management of the past of this Government, we have the strategy for reactivation, yes, the Berpiztu Programme. And complemented with Euskadi Next. And yes, I repeat, Mr. Casanova, strategic plan. With a safe plan, a secure system. Not only is yours a system that generates security, ours too. Because, as long as this situation continues over time, many companies and people will continue to face difficulties in meeting their payment commitments, compromising their future viability. And there we must be supporting them from the institutions. With a plan, with resources, but from realism, with the sole objective of trying to accompany, in a loyal way, the sector. EH Bildu, no, today they have not come to seek an agreement, but to ask for an impossible, so that they can shield themselves before third parties in our no. I hope that they do not intend to make the sector believe that this which you bring us here today in your original initiative is feasible, that it creates a feeling of false hope, which only leads to frustration, which is precisely what we do not need in the fight against the pandemic. They do not need false expectations, they need the truth, they need to face reality, they need spaces in which they can bring their solutions and their point of view and work with certainties, if any certainty can be had in these times. We are more of this way...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u145	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u146	... of loyalty, bai, of certainties and of creating solid foundations without false expectations. And this is the social feeling, which I know... That's not your feeling, Mr. Casanova. And on this path you will find us the Basque Nationalists, lan Egyptiano bidean. And on the way to work, we'll all get it. As the President said, with patience and constancy, we shall attain our goal. The neighborhood is our strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and together the middle-direction that Podemos Edemos-Nozer has signed. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 44; 75; the supporters, 33; the contrary, 41; the abscesssions, 1. white, 0.1,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u148	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the full correction of Ciudadans and Popular Party. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 44; 75; the supporters, 6; the contrary, 41; the abstations, 28; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u149	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. The seventh point on the theme list: "The Companion of the popular Euscal Group-Ciudadans as a parlamentary group-about the assistance measures of the autonomists. Discipline and final resolution. It's the caller's turn. Mr. Gil has the word that is the representative of the Basque Popularo-Ciudadans to present his initiative and take his stand.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u150	Good afternoon. Let's talk about self-reliant again. Well, in this case, in a much more specific way, with a non-law proposal that was registered on November 20 and that, due to different circumstances, it has not been possible to debate until today. Three months ago, but the truth is that as if it had been yesterday, because it really remains fully in force and current, since the situation of the self-employed in Euskadi has not only not improved, but has been clearly aggravated by the health and economic crisis resulting from the COVID-19. And this is not a GNP specifically aimed at alleviating the situation of COVID-19, but rather at introducing structural measures. But it is true that, in particular now, we find this collective, as we have already acknowledged here and in all the debates that have taken place on this day, because it is one of the collectives mainly affected, right? The objectives we set ourselves in registering this initiative were two: on the one hand, to bring to this House the situation of helplessness suffered by the self-employed, which we all – I think – have recognized, especially now, no?, and in this way also to give voice to one of the groups most punished by the crisis; and, on the other hand, to put on the table a series of measures – he said that, moreover, some of them are structural – that can help to mitigate their situation both to those who maintain activity and to those who have left no choice but to bring down the blind in a definitive way. The reality – let's see data – is that in the month of January, we have lost 26 autonomous people a day, and that, since the previous crisis, Euskadi has lost 1 out of 10 autonomous people: from the 189,000 discharges in Social Security in 2008 to 168,790 that there are today. Here's the picture. These are the data of a sector that dies from lack of support. And that of the self-employed is a group that we believe must be specially protected, because it represents a significant percentage of the Basque economy. And also because of their quality, because they are our entrepreneurs: because they are the seed shop from which the companies that then generate wealth and employment arise. It is often said that if we managed to get each self-employed person to hire only one employee, we would end the whole Euskadi unemployment immediately. That's what's important. And that's their potential; that's their ability. In addition, they are people who have made a decision in important life: instead of seeking employment from others, they have decided to take risks, create it, and give it to others. It is the brave; it is the ones who risk their heritage. They are the ones who do not have trade unions that defend them, despite not having a vacation or a continuous day, even though they have to get up every day before anyone else. They are the ones who create wealth, and at the same time they are the ones who have the most unprotected; the most vulnerable. I mean, they're the most valuable and the least cared for. They're the smallest; we're talking about people who are practically alone. We talk about taxi drivers, we talk about plumbers, we talk about consultants, we talk about farmers, we talk about architects, we talk about translators... We are not talking about powerful multinationals; we are talking about simple people, who make their living with their effort, with their sweat. And we think it's our responsibility to defend them. That is why, after talking to the associations that represent them, we have decided to propose here a series of measures, which we believe could help the sector and which we can frame in two blocks. They are not political measures. They're not measures to attack anyone. These are constructive measures. This PNL, you see it's pretty white... It said, in two blocks, two types of measures: On the one hand, aid to those who are still active and need it because they are having a particularly bad time today. We propose to introduce a reduction in the contribution to the quota of the self-employed with a drop of 50% or more in their turnover in the third quarter of 2020, compared to the same quarter of the previous year, until the state of alarm, for example. We are not asking – as you are seeing – for direct help. These people... They're not used to it, and they don't usually ask for money almsy. They're used to making money on their own. What they need is that we don't make them pay what they can't win, that we don't let them win, and that we help them make their business work. Secondly, we propose a temporary reduction in VAT, of 50% of the corresponding rate, for the hospitality, tourism, culture, hairdressing, gymnastics sectors, until the end of the state of alarm. Third measure, temporary reduction of VAT on personal protective equipment for SMEs and self-employed workers, until the end of the state of alarm. And fourthly, a measure that we are really baffled to have to ask for, but which is a claim of the self-employed themselves and is that, please, they should not be required to advance the payment of VAT on invoices that have not yet been charged; all they need is, above all, to lend money to the State. The idea is very simple: do not pay VAT on unpaid invoices, i.e. declare the invoice by the date of collection-payment, and not by the date of issue of the invoice. These measures come to mind for us, and for many more people, but we frame them within the recommendations made by the European Commission on 11 February, not two years ago, when it reviewed Spain's growth forecasts and called for "materializing support measures for the most affected sectors, in order to reduce the risk of business insolvency". I repeat, European Commission, 11 February this year. We already know that some of these issues depend on the Government of Spain, and you are going to tell us that it is not the responsibility of the Basque Government; therefore, our GNP urges the Basque Government to ask the Government of Spain, the central government, these issues, which, bearing in mind that the parties supporting the Government of Spain are also represented here in this House, as are the PNV and Bildu, who support it with their votes in the Congress of Deputies, we understand that it has to be an easy task. In fact, the only Basque parliamentary group that is not, in any way, committed to the Government of Spain is us. The second package of measures proposed is for those who have been forced to cease their activity, to close the blind. In many cases, we are talking about viable businesses, which, due to the restrictions on control of the pandemic, have seen their economic activity reduced and the debts contracted have become an impossible slab that they cannot continue to endure. In this block we propose three things: first, to ensure full access to free legal aid for self-employed people in the event of a tender from creditors. The people who pass through the experience of the creditor competition carry as an additional slab that above have to bear the economic cost of the legal advisers it entails, when they are in that situation in which they cannot pay neither the Social Security nor their employees. Second. To reform Law 22/2003 of 9 July so that it becomes a real law of second chances, making flexible the necessary requirements to allow access to judicial forgiveness of debts to all debtors in good faith, whether SMEs, self-employed persons or natural persons – I repeat, or natural persons – understanding forgiveness of debts, sorry!, extending forgiveness to debts with Finance and Social Security. And third, which distinguishes between personal and professional assets of self-employed persons, because this is the basis of the difference between public limited companies and public limited companies, self-employed persons are not allowed this differentiation, and so it can happen that a taxi driver, for example, may have to lose, perhaps, his own flat or the flat of his family, if the business goes wrong. What we propose is that liability should be limited to the assets affected by the business, that is, those directly related to the professional activity. In the fourth quarter of 2020, creditors' competitions in Euskadi have grown by 15.6%, adding up to three consecutive quarters of increases. And it is true that we have a competition law, 22/2013; it is true that there is already a law of second chances, modified also during the first state of alarm, but I hope you agree with me that it is clearly insufficient, due on the one hand to its complexity and on the other hand to its lack of agility. And these adjectives, these valuations, are not mine, but the governor himself of the Banco de España. Last January 12, in a talk at the Economic Circle, he said: "To improve the productivity of the Spanish economy, changes to the second chance law are urgently needed; this is a basic issue to ensure the future of companies that are viable even if they are in debt. This reform is particularly important in a context such as the current one, in which an increase in personal and business insolvency processes is expected." The Governor of the Banco de España said this just three weeks ago, and I make these words mine to claim the autonomous who mortgaged his life to carry on a business and who has seen how the COVID-19 has changed the rules of the game and lost everything, while we look at it with our arms crossed. We must act in line with the recommendations of the European Commission and in line with the recommendations of the Governor of the Bank of Spain, and we must give certainty and support to those who are having a bad time in this crisis. All public administrations are obliged to act at their level and in a coordinated manner. We cannot go to the autonomous to tell him, to the one who has lost all his assets, to talk to him about competences and to tell him that here, in the Basque Parliament, we can do some things and not others, because we are tired of making GNP aimed at urging the Government of Spain. From Parliament, we must work to adopt initiatives that force the Basque Government to put solutions, but also the Spanish Government. This problem is everyone's, and we want to ask all the institutions to be involved in solving it. We need the Lehendakari, when he goes to talk to the President of the Government, to talk about the Basque self-employed, about the increase in the price of light, which increases the operating costs of companies, about the 32,119 Basque workers who are still in ERTE or about the 4,175 Basques who are more than 44 years unemployed, and are looking for their first job, and less about the Basque football team. The GNP we are proposing is not against anyone, and I was saying, it is in favour of Euskadi and it is in favour of their families, of their economy, of their jobs, it is in favour of what matters to people, and we had the hope that this would be understood, but we have lost all hope when we saw the amendments that have received this proposal: That of the groups supporting the Government has made us particularly surprised; because, so long as we do not support our proposal, they have drafted an amendment sketch that basically says nothing, or, worse, says that nothing needs to be done and that the existing aid – I repeat, the aid – is still being provided to mitigate the impact of COVID-19. Moreover, I am afraid that we will now be rereading the list of aid they are granting. That we are not asking for aid, that we are asking for structural reforms! And in Bildu's amendment, we see basically two ideas: to create an autonomous work table and to create a compensation fund. The second is that we can share it, if in the recently approved budgets there is no fund to compensate them, but you see, I repeat, that we are not asking for aid, that things are not going there; that the self-employed is not what they want, that they need it to alleviate the current situation, but this, when the COVID crisis passes, is not going to solve the problem. They are used to earning their own money if we leave them and create the conditions for them to do so. They don't want to be subsidized, they don't want to owe anyone anything; what they want is for us to let them work. With regard to the first idea proposed by Bildu, we believe that it is not a good idea to kick the ball in this matter, and to create an autonomous work table would mean delaying this matter for a few months, for a matter which is completely urgent. Because today there are thousands of citizens overwhelmed by this situation, who will not understand that we solve this by creating tables to talk among politicians; they need urgent and effective solutions, because they are the ones who are playing the patrimony and those who cannot sleep because they are burdened with payments and because this affects their families. We understand the good intention of this proposal, but we believe that we need to have or put on the table measures that are more realistic, more courageous, faster and more effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u151	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs Garcia, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u152	Thank you, and good evening. Well, we're back on the question of self-nomous workers' protection, which must be delivered before the crisis caused by COVID-19. The subject deserves again, without doubt, because many autonomous workers are in a serious situation. As we all know, the pandemies are really severe, and, after what we have heard in the afternoon, we may say that the representatives of all political groups are specially affected by autonomous workers. But I believe that some people are forgetting that we are in a new revival of the COVID-19 and have been talking about the aid that has existed before, but we are facing a new revival of the COVID-19. And this resurgence has entailed new restrictions, either because the previous ones have been extended, or because others have been put into effect. And all of this has meant a new quagmire for many self-employed workers, as a large part of them and they arrive dragging from the previous wave an economic situation, at least – let's say – complicated. And so the situation isn't getting better in those sectors. In this soconomic context, full of uncertainty, thousands of workers are suffering from a very inferior state of autonomous instability, a total economic instability, and a political element, who are here and there, interposing us, waiting for an answer to look into the future. Collecting the Basque Country from the beginning of pandemia and the legislature we've been in, has more than once introduced the proposals to protect autonomous workers. And, well, if some people don't like the political games that make the government, we'll follow our proposals with a definite purpose: to rethink the losses he had in those areas and to guarantee minimum incomes for the sectors he's caused: in the other proposition of our former law, which we demand. And that's the proposition we make at the Basque People's Wards to protect the autonomous workers. There are propositions which may be acceptable, as the PP-Ciudadans proposes, and there are points which we do not agree with. But the main cause is not to vote for the Basque People in favor of the Collectors: for, on the one hand, it is because they are proposals for long periods, and are now to answer the serious situation in which the euscal autonomists are living. And on the other hand, because this other proposition is directed only by looking at the Government of Madrid. And we believe that there is a great deal that can be demanded of the government here, and can do what it can, according to the reality of our autonomous workers here, and our social reality, which is held up together in a half-day proposition with Podemos-Nodemoker. We're all right, we're making three demands. First, to build a table of self-recognized work, to make information and contributions to the representatives and representatives of the EUDEL, and not, as the representative of PP said, to talk to the politicians. Not just for that, or at least not just for that, because we ourselves here think that we should talk about it. Secondly, by seeking the agreement of the associations and unions of political, autonomous sects, autonomists, and unions, which, as the previous day, has been said by the representative of PSE, the social conversation, the survival of the Eascal Plant to protect the autonomism, which will be a short, rhythmic, and long-term measure, in view of the losses caused by the crisis in COVID19, for the re-ression of the autonomous and permanent protection of the auto-worker. Eta, hirugarrena, éta hori da gure gaurko legeko besteko proposimena, konpentsazio-futs zabalgarri bat fate. The government parties (PNV, PSE) have rejected, with their votes, the creation of this compensation and rescue fund for the most affected sectors of the self-employed workers of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. And since this rejection, we could hardly reach an agreement in our amendments, for which we believe political will and commitments are necessary, which must materialise in economic items that have been rejected. We do not believe that the response that they need from different sectors of self-employment, and which calls on the public sector and calls on us in the political sphere, can be satisfied with the terms of the government party amendment, which is to say that, despite the fact that we are in a second wave of pandemics, despite the fact that the situation has not improved, and, despite the fact that the short and medium-term prospects are not flattering, we reject the creation of a rescue fund, so that, as reflected in your amendment, we can continue to provide the necessary aid in a coordinated way, without today knowing what aid is needed, because we have heard in the previous point to Mrs Corcuera's representative, Mrs Corcuera, talking about a lot of millions that has overwhelmed us, but she has told us about the past, she has told us about the past! And when we thought we were going to know something about future aid, we were told they were working on it. So, as of today, we do not know what these aids can be. And that's why we're going to vote for this negligation of the Basque Country as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u154	...andrea, grated on guztioi. Mr Gil, in the non-legislative proposal made by your parliamentary group, it does devote more attention to structural measures. The Basque Socialists, even coinciding in some of them and we could also work, if we consider that we are now on another priority; it is other emergencies that concern us, and now we have to work to further strengthen that network of protection, precisely, of this group of self-employed workers. In this regard, I remind you that the response of the central government and also the Basque government to protect the collective of the self-employed, since the outbreak of the pandemic, has been the most extensive and has been agreed – this is important – at all times with the most representative organizations of this collective: UPTA, ATA and UATAE. Since the beginning of the crisis, some 1.5 million self-employed persons have received the extraordinary termination benefit, which amounted to a minimum amount of EUR 660 per month, and the temporary exemption from social security contributions. Until October 2020, more than €7.5 billion has been earmarked for special benefits to self-employed persons, i.e. they have been given, in the form of benefits, practically what is collected from self-employed persons in one year, and if we take into account the economic resources that have been allocated until the next... until 31 January 2021, the amount is equal to €8.6 billion. The protection that the self-employed have had in this crisis of the COVID has made it possible to maintain employment. The self-employed membership data for the month of October were 3,265,000 contributors, i.e. 14,000 more self-employed than for the month of January of that year, a situation radically different from that which we had in the 2008 crisis, where the number of self-employed fell due to the total absence of protective measures for this group. The autonomous protection measures adopted by the Government of Spain exceed the average protection of other European countries in our environment. Thus, while the maximum number of self-employed protected in Spain was 46% of the total, the maximum average protection achieved in the main countries of the European Union amounted to 39%. Our protection is in line with the protection rate achieved in Germany, 45%, and is almost 20 basis points more than Portugal's maximum aid and around 15 basis points more than aid granted in France, Austria or the Netherlands. In Italy, France and Germany, only one-time payments have been made to the self-employed. In Germany, only some operating costs were covered, not income protection costs as such. And in the Netherlands, the aid consists simply of a supplement until it reaches the minimum income. Moreover, as I said, with regard to the increase in the quota, in the social security contribution of self-employed workers, it must be explained that this update derives from the reform of the RETA, of December 2018, which was made with the agreement of the self-employed associations. As a result, these workers were able to have more social protection and a more balanced contribution to social security. The direct consequence of this reform is that all self-employed persons now contribute to the cessation of activity coverage, and the duration of the benefit has doubled to 24 months, with a minimum of four, depending on the contribution. In addition, it should be clarified that self-employed persons who, as of last March, were required to apply for the extra benefits for cessation of activity, due to the COVID crisis and who, in parallel, were exempted from the payment of the contribution, will not have to face any additional settlement in the months in which they did not have to pay the contribution. I am not going to extend or add to all the measures deployed by the Basque Government, because we have already had them set out in the previous point. I did want to highlight the measures, because I think it is important to put into value the aid and measures of the outlaws, mainly in tax matters last year, which they have agreed to extend for this year 2021, as their own non-law proposal also refers to measures in tax matters. I would just like to remind you that, within the commitments of the government agreement, employment and economic recovery are the priority, and within this area of action, there is a specific commitment that leads, precisely in its statement, to the promotion of micro-entrepreneurship and support for self-employed people and micro-enterprises. All the support that is being worked on is being done with the sector – it is paramount – and is also being coordinated institutionally. We do not agree, as I said at the beginning, that the priority now is to work on structural measures. In that we agree with the EH Bildu group. We are now more concerned with those measures, more protection, more support and more urgency. Another issue is that we agree both on the coverage, whether it is sufficient or not, and on the instrumentalization of the coverage. What is clear is that the Government of Spain, and also the Basque Government, is working to support these sectors, and they have, of course, the highest priority and sensitivity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Eubertarians, madam, are yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u156	Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good evening to all. I don't know how much I've got to say, all I've talked to before me, but I'll try not to repeat too much. "The U.S. Actor of the Eus asks for institutions which have jurisdiction in each department, to maintain the economy and activity of co-ordinated sectors and professionals, so that they may continue the necessary aids to relieve the influence of COVID-19." This is the Eucabertist team, together with the Basque Socialists, the correction we've introduced. And, yes, general, without any precision. Well, yeah. And why? Especially for two basic reasons. First, let them continue to support us. On March 13th, 2020, the president declared Euskakia in a state of health emergency. On the 14th of March, the following day, Pedro Sánchez established an alarm. Three days later, in the 17th and 24th of March, the EuskM started to answer this unusual state of health, economics, and social world aids, a covid of $125 million euros, and accepted the rates of impacts of $841 million, which have gone on increasing and adapted as the situation became wretched. And now, keeping our eyes focused on the autonomists we're going to argue with, and don't repeat what the ladies of Berrojalbi and Corcuera said, and now Mrs. Pérez Noquerá, I'll only mention them briefly. Emergency funding lines for micro- and self-employed people at zero cost are activated on 24 March. Line of financing of the circulation for SMEs, micro SMEs and self-employed persons; they are activated on 31 March. Extraordinary aid for self-employed persons through Lanbide; it is activated on 15 April, not to mention aid to the sectors of commerce, hospitality and tourism, in which self-employed persons predominate, the cultural sector or professionals in the primary sector. All these aids have been complementary to those of the Spanish State, the three Basque deputies and municipalities. We therefore call on the institutions concerned to continue to provide aid in our amendment. And I stress the continuation, because since March the battery of aid has been activated by the Basque institutions, or by most of them. And I point this out, since from EAJ-PNV we can say that, in most of the institutions in which we govern, aid has been given to the self-employed. Financing measures and direct aid granted by the Basque Government. Tax measures from the three Member States and direct aid from the municipalities, as well as consumption vouchers for the reactivation of the most affected sectors. But it's true that it's important to keep doing this kind of help. This pandemia, by its inconstancy, makes us daily challenge these institutions, which causes us to maintain and restore the politics of public aids. And for this purpose, it is indispensable that the community and the community of organizations should be co-operated with the different and professional sectors. This initiative we are engaged to today was registered on November 20th, and our amendment on December 10th. Today, on the 18th of February, and after we've agreed to the Eusk0 News of 2021, we know that the government will continue to support us. Mrs Garcia, we're talking about the future for a short time, as in the preceding proposition of Berrojalbi and Corcuera, as shown by Mrs. Garcia, with a new program for financial aid to small and middle-aged companies and autonomists, 15 million consumers, trades, and tourism, measures for a 20 million tourism, a seven million leap plan for rescindations, modifications, 14, or the value of the Euscalumian Corporation for 6 billion dollars a year's commercial campaign. Also, the help of professional culture-sectors supported last Tuesday: 1,38 million art professional productions, or 354,000 for the founders. We may further say: this government, from its union with the rest of the Basque institutions, has also been produced a program of regenerate, a programme of eucalypatory economy and employment; First axis of this programme, economic revival. Fifth policy, to activate the food industry, 613 million for the period 2020-2024, with an interinstitutional plan of common agricultural policy. Strategic Plan for Euskadi Gastronomy and Food. First point of this fifth policy, generational relief, guarantee the future of the first sector, through the assurance of generational relief and to attract new entrepreneurs and professionals. Sixth policy, reviving trade and the tourism and culture industry, 313 million by 2020-2024. Secondly, job creation. Seventh policy, entrepreneurship, new businesses. EUR 128 million, of which 26 will be earmarked for micro- and autonomous SMEs. On the other hand, even three fords have advanced the extension from the 2020 March to autonomous workers, micropresions, and small and rhythmic companies. And they have agreed to take the following measures on the rent of physical persons, among others: One, the obligation to declare IPRF in the years 2020 and 2021, in the three historical territories, rises from 12,000 to 14,000. A ceiling of EUR 20,000 is also set in the case of more than one payer, where the sum of the amounts received from the second and other payers does not as a whole exceed the amount of EUR 2,000 per year. Two. Also for the financial years 2020 and 2021, certain income corresponding to the extraordinary aid granted by the public administrations to self-employed persons and self-employed persons as a result of the suspension, cessation or serious impairment of their activity as a result of COVID-19 is declared exempt from the payment of IRPF. We support the government, we believe that it is essential to continue with the organizational interaction, and even with the sectors and professionals produced by this crisis, to face this challenge, which is a short and average period, in an efficient and consistent manner, by activateing and adapting the necessary measures and assistance of the present moment. And the second reason for our correction: This is negotiation. In the introduction of our correction, we thought that we would have no trouble with the rest of our teams, because it gave us the opportunity of gaining more accuracy; but on the one hand, Podemos-Iterda has not made any correction, so we have no opportunity of negotiating. From the PP-Ciudadans, as a team proposer, we haven't even received a single contact. And from the EH Collect Group, we've been contacted, we've presented the presence of our negotiations, but I've received the answer an hour ago, and we're not getting anything, we won't even agree. Nevertheless, we vote for our correction, because we believe that we have been supported and given, and that we must continue to give them, and that they must be improved and adapted to the state. Euskadiko Ekonomia eta Gizarte Arazoetarako Batzordeak abenduan argitarratutako txostenean, zeina Berrojalbiz andreak ere aipatu duen, esaten du: "The challenge facing the public sector in the economic sphere is twofold: in the short term, to support companies, and in the medium, to contribute to the generation of new projects that create wealth for society. All this, moreover, maintaining and adapting the commitment to support employment. The extension of the recovery period poses the challenge of maintaining and reorienting public aid policy, depending on the impact of the pandemic. We do not know what this will last, so we must have an attitude of observation and lifelong learning, which allows us to understand what is going on and rectify, if necessary, making at every moment a diagnosis as accurate as possible." So, to finish, we have to go back to work to help the sectors and professionals who are found in the most vulnerable situation. We have to guarantee the future of theirs and of our people from the union of the institutions, and we must recover and improve the welfare which preceded the crisis of Euchardi, and thus all of us are indispensable in support and protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Crossing the line of no-correction, together Podemos-Nozzer, your word is yours, Mr. Soso.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u158	Thank you. Well, Mr Gil, I must say that, in your proposal – you have said it yourself – basically most of the points relate to issues that correspond to the substantive law of the State and that, well, beyond having a rhetorical debate here, as to the need to make structural changes in these matters, because it is hardly going to have that debate a material translation into anything, at least as far as what we can determine in this House, is it not? In any case, it does seem to us that some of the issues that you have mentioned do require a deep debate, and also in some of them we might agree. That is to say, that it is true that there are issues that you have mentioned, that, as far as the self-employed are concerned, they are structurally suffering, and that, well, they require changes. Whatever it is, I would also invite those who share a coalition with you in the parliamentary group to tell them what time they have had to work in that direction, and they have never done so. Moreover, in fact, no longer going to the structural issues that you refer primarily to in your document, rather going to issues of urgency, as a result of the situation we are experiencing, which we are currently experiencing by COVID, and which have already been told by other representatives and other representatives, it seems unheard of that it is the People-Citizens Group that raises the need for support for the self-employed at a time like this, when in the 2008 crisis, the financial crisis, their fellow travellers – I say – did not raise any support for this sector. None. In other words, the coalition government in this regard, the Spanish Government, for the first time has proposed aid benefits, such as the cessation benefit, and has deployed a level of economic resources – the figures have already been given to it; nor will I reiterate them –, come on, far above what any other government has done, which, as far as speeches and rhetoric are concerned, may always put their desire to protect the business sector and entrepreneurs and self-employed people, but then, for practical purposes, when it touches, their hand in their pockets. I mean, doing absolutely nothing. So, I say to you that: beyond bringing the debate here so that the parties that we support the Government of Spain, and those who sometimes vote in favour of their initiatives, raise these structural changes in Congress, I say, I invite you to tell your coalition partners also that, when appropriate, if they have governmental responsibilities, they also raise these reflections and these changes. In any case, I say to you that, for our part, we believe that it is essential to adapt certain structural questions as regards the self-employed, and also as regards some other element that you mentioned in your speech, such as the competition law. We have mentioned, more than once, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Ezker Anitza or from União Podemos, the need to apply progressive in terms of autonomous quotas, and also the link with respect to income. In that sense, if you agree, then, in your moment, when you touch this reflection and its application, surely we will find ourselves; we will see it over time. In any case, I believe that at the moment, apart from talking about structural issues as far as the self-employed are concerned, it is also talking about what has to do with the situation we are experiencing, which is the result of the economic crisis resulting from the COVID. And, in this regard, we have already had the opportunity to speak for a long time in the previous speech, with regard to the GNP proposed by EH Bildu, on what our approach is to the aid required by the groups who are currently experiencing the worst. We have commented on this, and we believe that it is essential to limit real estate income, which, in our view, is the real tide that rises and drowns, in this case, also to self-employed and small businesses. You, in that sense, don't want to hear about it... Act also on what has to do with discretionary tax policies. You are simply talking about VAT reductions; we are also proposing changes in relation to tax policies, in addition to VAT reductions. And direct help. Direct aid from the public sector, shock plans, no guarantees. And, in this regard, we have not heard citizens, in their case, but also the People's Party, talking about the need to implement these shock plans. And, of course, the autonomous communities where you have government responsibilities have not applied direct lines of aid to the worst-case sectors. That is why we do not consider it very appropriate to support his initiative either, because, I say to him, he raises issues that require deep reflection on structural changes in the system of self-employed people, which we in this House do not believe to be appropriate. On the other hand, there is little talk of short-term measures to respond to the economic crisis in relation to the self-employed. And, moreover, our recipes, in certain respects, differ. Then, in that sense, we cannot support your proposal. With regard to EH Bildu's proposal, well, we do believe that the two points they raise are perfectly consumable and supportable, in the sense that, well, basically the two points to which they refer are the setting up of a table, which, as you have already replied, refers not only to political actors, but also to actors in the self-employed sector, which allows us to talk about issues to which you referred, Mr Gil. And, on the other hand, they talk about direct lines of support for the self-employed. And, with regard to the Government's initiative, we are going to abstain, in the sense that, well, the benefits that the Basque Government has at the moment applied in relation to support for self-employed people seem to us to be insufficient; we believe that it is necessary to apply direct lines of support, as we mentioned in the previous intervention by discussing aid for hospitality. But, in any case, as your proposal for an amendment does not say much, basically continue and continue to work on the line in which you work, for, well, not discarding certain items that you have raised in your budgets but considering that more needs to be done, we will abstain. In that regard, I do not understand those allegations, either, regarding the lack of negotiating capacity that you have verbalized here. Because given that we are going to abstain, I do not know very well why, in short, those mentions of the inability to talk to one another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u159	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Passing the answer round, representative of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadans, Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I'm a little drawn to the point that, from Bildu's point of view, the reason for rejecting our GNP is that the self-employed need a short-term response now. And it turns out your proposal is to build a table. A table! I mean, the problem is the short term, and we propose a table. It's hard for me to understand; forgive me. And with regard to the Socialist Party's intervention, I would like to apologize, because, because of my inability, I did not have to explain correctly what the proposal was, and I think that some of you have had to understand that we were at the previous point, in the aid measures related to the subject of COVID. No, we have already made it clear that this was not just about the subject of COVID, and that there were more structural measures here. And the truth is that I have not heard a word in your speech about whether these measures that we have proposed, in particular, are right or wrong. What he has done is to defend what the Spanish Government is doing and to reread, as PNV has also done, the list of aid that they are currently giving. That already, that we already know, and on this I am not going to tell you what I think, because I think we have talked about it in the previous point all, long and stretched out. We are now talking about other, other measures, and about those measures, because in general, we have not heard any pronouncements here either in favour or against. Well, we have heard Mr. Soto say that he agrees on some points, but not on others. However, they will vote no. And it reminds me that we tell our partners. Listen, it is you who are in the Government of Spain; you are. So when you tell me that this GNP has a problem and that it refers to interventions by the Spanish Government, it can be addressed to you in particular. Precisely, that's why we're proposing it. What we are proposing is a very clear thing, and it is that the Basque Government urges the Spanish Government to do these things. There are some things they can do too. But, come on, you're particularly the one who tells me this. Anyway, just like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u161	Thank you, Mr. Gil. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Garcia... Oh, he mustn't speak. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u162	Thank you. Mr Gil, like the Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita group, what we have told you is that several – even many – of your proposals are interesting and, at another time, you can delve into them; they can be studied, we can even reach agreements. But we understand that now is not the time to work on structural measures; now is the time for urgency, priorities, and we are immersed in a huge pandemic. So I am not going to remind you again, in fact, of all the measures deployed by the Basque Government, because we have already had a point, which has preceded us, where they have been exposed. But I will remind you of the measures taken by the Government of Spain, because it is the Government that has in history made, and given, more coverage by precisely self-employed workers. And also for many of the ministries: From the Ministry of Inclusion, Social Security and Migration, the termination benefit, the extraordinary benefit for seasonal self-employed workers, the extraordinary benefits included in the Royal Decree Law 30/2020, the flexibility of access to the extraordinary benefit for suspension of activity by the hospitality sector, the moratoriums and postponements of social contributions and the payment of debts to Social Security, the exemption of social security contributions by employers while there is an ERT. By the Ministry of Finance, the increased deferral in the payment of taxes, the adjustment of the payment of taxes to the real income of the self-employed, and the reduction of the fractional payment to be paid in IRPF and VAT discounting the days of state of alarm in the first quarter of 2020. By the Ministry of Economy, the ICO's collateral line, the ICO's collateral line to boost business investment, the liquidity and solvency support plan for self-employed people and businesses, and the mortgage debt moratorium. And by the Ministry of Ecological Transition and Demographic Challenge, the perception of the social bonus by self-employed workers, and the flexibility and/or suspension in electricity and gas supply contracts. With regard to EH Bildu's proposal to create a Basque table of self-employment to, among other things, work a comprehensive Basque strategic plan of support for self-employment, we believe that it is not necessary to achieve this instrumentalization, for several reasons: Firstly, because there are already tables of social dialogue, where measures are worked and agreed to support our economic fabric, among which, logically, self-employment is also. Secondly, because all the measures adopted, as I say, are agreed and have been agreed with the most representative associations of the self-employed. And thirdly, because we would also make a mistake if we only looked at the legal form. Many of the small businesses and businesses are not natural persons; a very high percentage – in the case, for example, of trade and hospitality, more than 50% – are legal persons; they are often limited one-person companies. With what we would be leaving out an important economic reality. Therefore, as we have already been able to explain both in the point that has preceded me in relation to the measures deployed to help the most affected sectors as in this point with the measures directed more directly at the collective of the self-employed, I conclude, as Mrs... my colleague, Mrs Corcuera: the actions and resistance plans of the Basque Government have been launched from the very beginning, and efforts in interdepartmental and inter-institutional initiatives and actions have been and will be the necessary framework of work and collaboration to achieve the objective of helping the worst productive sectors. That is why we support our amendment, which calls on the institutions responsible for each subject to continue to provide, in a coordinated manner and with the aim of safeguarding the economic and labour activities of the sectors and professionals concerned, the aid necessary to mitigate the impact of the covid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Wide, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u164	Thank you, Mr. President. PP-Citizens Taldeari, Zuen... on your initiative. The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to urge the Spanish Government. The two parties in your coalition in this House have a political group in the Congress of Deputies, with greater representation than they have here. Perhaps these initiatives would be more convenient if they were to be presented there. In their initiative they propose to discuss the implementation of support to the self-employed. So far, totally fine. But, in the content of the non-legislative proposal they propose, as I said at the beginning, that the Basque Parliament urge the Basque Government to urge it to urge the central government. And they offer us eight points of state competence. We, from this initiative, draw two conclusions: The first: do they not consider these measures so necessary and therefore do they not pose them in the appropriate institution? In which, it has been said that... As I have said before, they have more representation than they have in this House. Because I have to confess that I have been investigating the initiatives presented in the Congress of Deputies, and I have found only one reference to the VAT reduction presented by your group Citizens, referring to compulsory medical devices, which also brought it to debate in this House. And if you want to submit these amendments to the Congress of Deputies, I will give you a piece of advice, a little advice – I will allow that license – for point four and five. Article 23 of Act No. 14/2013 of 27 September 2013 on support for entrepreneurs and their internationalization introduces the special cash criterion scheme in Chapter 10 of Title IX of Act No. 37/1992 of 28 December 1992 on value added tax. And I'm going to say a few words that Mrs Berrojalbiz has also said to you. I encourage the members of the PP and Citizens, the groups of PPCiudadanos, to work in Madrid for the modification of the Economic Concert, to agree on all taxes, the new ones included, and in particular that VAT is our competence. Fight for a greater self-government of Euskadi, and so we can respond to your requests. And the second conclusion of his initiative, which they agree with and share the support of the Basque Government for the self-employed, gives us great joy. And we are also pleased that you have included in this non-law proposal the tourism sector, one of your great forgotten, although in the previous point Mrs Larrea has had a great impact on this. But I would remind you that in the partial amendments to the budgets you forgot this sector. And we heard today of the EH Collectors, who said to Casanova, "scuchar a la oposición," and that it must be the builder to Mrs. Well, I have to tell you that I contacted you. I was ready to listen to him, and to agree, or to plan new things. But, as I said before, I haven't heard from you till this afternoon. And now you're going to tell us, even if you're gonna repeat, you're still bringing in some initiative. Well, I don't have a problem. But will you be willing to speak or agree? You only know, without the party that supports the government, that you will not be able to advance any initiative. Such are the numbers in this parliament. Therefore, as I have already extended my hand to you, the rest of the legislatures have extended it to you, and I think it is time to get hold of our people all together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. So together, Podemos-Nozzer of the Anxiety Group, isn't he gonna talk? [[Pause]] After discussion, we'll put the original text of the Euscala Populara-Ciudadans' proposal to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 43; the votes given, 74; the supporters 7; the contrary, 67; abstaining, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u166	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote for the entire EH Collect Group correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 44; 75; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 48; the abstainations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u167	So it's not accepted. And finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the U.S.A. patriots in the whole area that the teams present. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 44; 75; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 28; abstaining, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-18.u168	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was seven o'clock in the afternoon.
