ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we start, to say that the fourteenth point is left for another. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, Josephba Díez Echus, members of the team's U.S.A.P.S.P.I.S.P.A.P.S.S.A.P.S.S.A.A.P.S.A.P.S.A.A.P.S.A.P.S.A.S.A.S.A. Mr. Díez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, good days to all. Mr. Chief Department, this Monday you've come to the right board of this legislature to report the Public Security Strat and explain it to the legal teams. The development of this plan is structured around certain definite actions, challenge, strategic furrows, initiatives, and actions. It's well known that we've explained it so many times over, because we've resurrected the responsibility of our team. We live in high transformations, and in those times it is indispensable to apply new techniques and innovations. We have to show the ability to give new answers to the hinges before us, and innovations. This must be the case in all the domains of society, but when we speak of public security, still more so. This plan here mentioned makes a firm wager for the establishment of new techniques to increase the protection of persons. And he shows the purpose, the techniques and communication services give us the means to exploit our powers as much as possible. That is why of the 12 lines of action, of the 52 initiatives and of the 166 concrete actions that contemplates the plan that we have realized, we would like to focus, in order to know it in more detail, on one of the actions, which consists in equipping the agents of security cameras in order to be able to record their actions, deepening transparency and guaranteeing and thus preserving the good name of our agents. That is why, Sailburu, our question is: what is the Department's forecast for the effective implementation of this measure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u2	Thank you, Mr. Díez. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, law enforcement, good morning to all. Mr. Díez, as you may well say, General II Plan II is a strong bet, and the edge is a strong bet for the new technology and the use of it. In today's digitalized society, such technological tools are indispensable in order to respond efficiently to the roots of security. And the new bets are included in that game for the new technology, that project you mention, the project you include, the project that you include, in the uniformity of the border, include a moving camera, the project around the incorporation. A project whose meaning can be clearly summed up in two words: transparency and guarantee. Or, if you prefer, more transparency and more guarantee. Because the project seeks to improve the transparency of each and every one of the actions of the Ertzaintza, providing guarantee. Guarantee, first of all, to the citizens, to the persons who are to be subjected to these recordings, because in this way they will have the assurance that no one will be able to impute to them unfounded, false, or that they do not correspond to what those persons have said or actually done. Guarantee, secondly, for the agents and agents of the Ertzaintza itself, who will also have a graphic document that will clearly reflect what they said and what they did, and what it is – even if they attribute it – what they neither said nor did. And, thirdly, guarantee for the system itself. For the security system, of course, but above all for the judicial system, because in this way very important contributions will be made for evidentiary purposes, in order to determine, clarify the facts, and also in order to be able to identify the persons who intervened in a given action. All this, from the utmost respect for the rules governing the protection of personal data and, of course, always giving prior notice of the implementation of the... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... from the utmost respect for the rules governing the protection of personal data and, of course, always giving prior notice of the implementation of recording mechanisms. As you can see, we are not talking about unlimited, indiscriminate and systematic recordings, but about recordings that will take place in specific situations, when there are and can be specific risks and dangers. To this end, we have recently launched the recruitment dossier, which will allow us to enable a pilot plan that will operate in the last quarter of this year. To this end, 30 cameras, with 12 hour batteries each, will be allocated to agents who will be located in the calla; in particular, they will be two cameras for each of the three patrol shifts – tomorrow, evening and night – in Bilbao, Vitoria-Gasteiz and Irún, which are the places where the pilot plan will be implemented; although in the case of Bilbao there will be a reinforced device to specifically serve the San Francisco area. Obviously, these mobile camera and recording camera devices will be accompanied by other devices for the automated download of images and, above all, for the subsequent management of the videos, in order to be able to store and process the images with absolute rigour, complete security, and also for the purpose of strictly complying with the regulations establishing their destruction, when the time comes when it has to be carried out. If the pilot plan succeeds, let's hope so, it is the Department's objective to move forward progressively in the implementation of these devices in the Ertzaintza patrols as a whole, with the view that towards the end of the legislature all the Ertzaintza patrols have this advanced technological mechanism that offers, as I said before, above all, transparency and guarantee actions of the Ertzaintza. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u4	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, I'm thinking about what the congressmen of the Maddalens have made to the president about asking him to fulfill the rules with severity and solidarity, about what he's going to do in front of the situation." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u5	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. Urkullu. The situation in which we live seems so serious to me, especially to-day, that I will make use of the interval to ask you a few questions, and a few proposals which I have made. You've agreed to make mistakes, and I'd like to ask you how these mistakes are and how they can be solved. And not, indeed, in order to emphasize these mistakes, but in order to see if it is possible to make a common diagnosis in order to overcome them. I have often said that we must face the present state as a people, and that we have not yet yet a complete and continuous frame for our work; and it seems to me that we need it both in the garden and in the future. It is evident that this government has an absolute majority, we have no doubt of it, but we cannot answer this state of government with a versus opposition. This model to handle Pandemia is not useful. At this moment, before anything else, the insertion must be accelerated because we're behind it. And I know there are plans made for this weekend. It's horrible the beginning of the end, but it looks like some vaccine will need a third dose. We know we can even contaminate with vaccination because it's happening, so we can contaminate it. As I said in his time, I feel like we'll be in a continuous state of pandemy for a long time, and we'll have to stay in a continuous situation of grafting. We've had four waves and we're getting used to that awful figure. 49 people died last week, that's 7-day media. The ZUs are tense, the first attention is overrated, and no structural change has been made, and we can do this here. That is why I believe, Mr. Urkullu, that in opposition, the Basque People are not nearly all such propositions as are made in general from the opposition. It's the kind of stage we're going to paint so that it doesn't happen again. From the point of view of health, even from the public health and the damaged sectors. Eta ez da ulertzen, Urkullu jauna, abenduaren 31n Jaurlaritzak diru kutxan ehunka milieu ez esta ez possible ez ez beer garageian proposed genuine 200 mlioiko funt bat fatea kaltetuta zeuden sektoreentzako. Persononak baldin badira Gobernu honen helburua, eabili ditzagun dauzkagun baliabide guztiak, because so many people are having such a bad time that it is not worth rationating with the resources of the government. And now we know from their official data that the government had 1 billion remaining available. And there's no one who understands this. And this can be solved here, without looking at Madrid. And another question I can think of is where the LABI is these days, but it does the same. And apart from what has been said, I would like to speak of the condition of alarm. Because in this critical situation, people need certainties, and because the government isn't certain that you're always arguing about it. And this has also become a debate that changes the focus of the fundamental, which is a virus that is sending hundreds of people to hospitals and killing dozens of people. She's a slut from Madrili Eskatzeaz, Ergutzeaz and gutunak bidaltzeaz gain, ser egingo dozu? But I'll tell you more, what do we do? What are we supposed to do? The Basque Country is looking at these possibilities. We propose to make decisions of political and social alliances, to use all our political and legal means with as much efficiency as possible. "Utilzar todos los recursos, todos los instrumentos pollicos y jurídicos disponibles con la maor eficacia." "Creemos que contamos congunos deellos." Knowing we're short of extra tools, knowing that no can come. Because the situation I was trying to share is interesting and it might happen again. .).
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u7	The Chief of Staff... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u8	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. Mrs. Irrie, your question looks into the future. What are you gonna do? I'll tell you what she's done, what she's been doing, and what she's still doing. We have already turned the measures of great prevention; To confine the closes of the community, to four persons, to shut down all manner of establishments at nine o'clock, and to limit them to the content of commerce, hosts, and culture rooms, or to activate additional measures in nations with more than 400 rates. I'm sure you're ready to do more business. We're ready to reorganize the health system and adapt to the new cooperation. Now we have 192 covid beds and we can double them. Double it. We put all the purchases we received. We've already installed more than 7400,000 vaccine. The community that's done the most test. We've done $3,500 tests here, 100,000 for each population and one in the state. So, we've done almost three million tests in total. We're getting the most precious of us, by the default of health, saving lives. Mrs. Iriarte, you will continue to criticize everything. I'm proud of the Basque health system. The incidence rate is high, yes, because in Euskadi it is where we perform the most test. This effort is the result. In Euskadi fewer people have become ill and died than the state average. After almost 14 months this is the important thing. More testing, more tracking of cases and contacts, more primary care to keep people sick and dead. You raise political alliances and make references to mistakes, flaws or the framework. I believe that citizens must know that, in addition to the decisions taken by the ordinary plenary on Thursdays, here, that many of the decisions refer to the field of health, beyond the fact that every 15 days we respond to this plenary of control, every Wednesday, until last week, there has been a meeting with all the parliamentary groups, where all the parliamentary groups have been able to make their contributions. It's true, we've requested alarm condition to ensure the legal protection of the limits. The measurements are not a decision taken by the President, or by funk. He gets new Life Plans that can get advice from experts to face the virus. In several countries in Europe, though the condition of a better pandemic, they have very strict measures. Alarm status is a tool in other European countries. I will do my best, until the last moment, to have a state of alarm in the state of state, and to a significant time. What's better? To be protected by the alarm instrument 15 days from now? Or is it a better impression, some think, of the uncertainty of a legal instrument that would produce it? What will the citizen prefer? That's clear. The certainty of being a legal protection. With this we assert both the order and the demand to complete the rules of society with severity and solidarity. From oneself, the effort of everybody is indispensable to the pandemia. Certainty and commitment, everything is necessary to leave pandemy behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "I'm asking you, Ekain Rico Lezama, Basque Sozialists, members of the second vice president and the head physician of the company of the Second Vice Presidents and Work and Eplegu, about adding 2030 of the rights to the workers at employment strategy." Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-Lehendakari, tomorrow is the first day of May and, for the second year in a row, we cannot celebrate it as the Socialists would like, as a party that fills the streets with workers' solidarity. And it is that, for my group and for our party, it is a very special date, because the first time the Basques were called to this appointment was 131 years ago, on the initiative of the Socialist Party. It was two years ago, it was two years after this date was conceived at the Second International. Four years after workers were called in Chicago to ask for shorter working hours. And, four years later, also from the founding of the first socialist grouping in this land, which has made us the most deeply rooted party in Euskadi. That is why it is so important for us on May 1st, because it was the first step in bringing things from the most vulnerable to the institutions. Socialists joined that international event. And the answer was hard, but the consequence was that the reduction in working time was also brought here. But the most important thing is that Basque workers became aware of their ability to change the conditions in which they lived and worked. And the way to change those conditions had to be taken to the institutions as well. A year later, the first worker arrived at these institutions. It was Manuel Orte, at Bilbao City Hall. He could have been a councillor because he had a coal company and the regime of the time considered him owner. There were three more elects who saw how they had vetoed their record. May 1st is a day full of symbolism. Today, workers face new challenges in a constantly changing world, which the crisis has done nothing but accelerate. The ageing and the need for professional profiles adapted to care, the accelerated automation of many jobs, the energy transition that forces companies to comply with sustainability criteria and requires workers to have adequate training. All that was on the agenda. The pandemic has forced us to set priorities, but without forgetting the challenges of the future. That is why the Socialists have committed themselves in full in this legislature, to attend to the urgent, the social and economic rescue of Euskadi, but without forgetting and without neglecting the most important, which is the transformation of that world that surrounds us. That is why the Basque employment strategy which has the horizon in 2030, in the Euskadi 2030, but which starts with realism from the situation we are living today, seems particularly relevant to us. We'll have a chance to discuss it in... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... in 2030, in the Euskadi of 2030, but that starts realistically from the situation that we are living today. We will have an opportunity to discuss it in the Basque Parliament committee, because Vice-Lehendakari has wanted it, and so that it is not only the social actors who are involved in the design, but also that there are contributions from all groups because it is a strategy that will mark the employment policies of this government and the two coming legislatures. But it has seemed particularly relevant to us that in this strategy we come from a new right, that of active employment policies, to deploy from our competitive capacities, from our own self-government. And it seems to us relevant not only because in the past we have been able to build rights such as health, education, GIR or housing in which we socialists have always taken part, in many cases leading their own initiative. It also seems relevant to us because in these times when workers have so many reasons to demand a just exit to this crisis, they are opened a door to a right that is unprecedented in Spain. That is why we ask Vice-Lehendakari what her intentions are with regard to this new right to training and activation for employment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u11	Thank you, Mr. Rico. To answer, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u12	Thank you, ma'am. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning, all of you. Well, Mr. Rico, it's true that we've learned how to stay in Euskad's vanguard and that we've built our self-gumber development with intelligence. We've learned how to become right, and that's what we did with the right to health and education, and then with the social protection system, and later on with the housing. Ten years ago, we took the jurisdictions of active employment policies, and what we propose is to make them a right to improve the quality of employment. We still have a course to improve equality and worthy wages, we must recover the rights we lost in the final work reform. But the quality of employment is measured also by the ability the workers have for proper preparation. We live in a pandemic transformation that's quicker than we can see. We must adapt to the next changes, and quickly. And we can't create a new crack between those who can afford it and those who don't pay for it. Hence this right. The concept was adopted at the United Nations in 2015 where all countries adopted the sustainable development goals and goal eight refers precisely to decent work, the conditions for access to jobs that are considered to be of quality. But four also refers to professional competences. And in 2017 it was the European Union itself which, at the Gothenburg summit, synthesized the European pillar of social rights in 20 points and, for the most part, referring precisely to the full conditions under which we must understand employment. And at its fourth point, it says: "Everyone has the right to receive personalized and timely assistance in order to improve their prospects for employment, self-employment, and this includes the right to receive assistance for job search, training and retraining. Everyone has the right to the transfer of social protection and the right to the training of his or her professional transitions". What we do is use the tools available to us, which are the competences in active policies, to guarantee this new right. We move from managing skills to transforming them into a tool that workers can demand, and that right will have to be guaranteed by Lanbide. That is why, from the beginning of the legislature, we began the process of transition and improvement of this public body so that when this Parliament adopts the Employment Act, which will define this new right, it will be prepared to make it possible. My department is aware of the challenge. At the moment there is only some experience in Europe and none in Spain. But we have decided to take that step forward because the current crisis is accelerating many processes of transformation of our productive fabric. And when we get out, because we're going out, we want it to be a fair way and no one stays behind. Neither did any worker, because he had not had the option or the resources to access the training he needed. We are convinced that in the future this will be an essential key to mitigating inequality. As we all assume today, health and education must not only be accessible to those who can afford it, but also to all people, access to training and employment opportunities must also be given equal consideration. Because a quality job is the key that must open the door to the social inclusion of each person. It is therefore the key to a society's cohesion and cohesion must be a just cause, a factor of competitiveness and progress. We will have time to contrast this, as I pointed out very well in this Parliament, and I would like to invite all groups to join this opportunity to join this strategy with its proposals, with an enriching and positive debate and to take a look at the future together for the benefit of the whole of Basque society and for the Euskadi that we want to design among all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Forth point on the theme list: "The question is, if you like Mi's hating library, together with Podemos, the members of the Antice team made to the president about the sanitary state of the Basque State." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u14	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Operations that aren't necessary, all of them, are cut off. That's what we found out this week, and, in fact, we're overwhelmed. They are extremely disturbing, indeed, the data that points to the effect of the panademie. And in front of these facts, Mr. President, how do you rate our state of health in the Eukadin? Do you intend to take special measures? The question is what assessment does it make of the health situation in Euskadi? Do you intend to take any special measures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, your word is yours. [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. A woman of hatred is a community created by a global Euskædi-demia. After almost 14 months of health, the state of health combines important factors and hopes of improvement. And the measures you have mentioned were not taken for the first time, neither here nor anywhere else. The immediate goal is at this moment to obtain the disintegration of the hospital system. The ZIU occupation is very large. We're on the third stage of five, and all the effort we're doing is to get back on stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u18	You mentioned the details in the hospital. As a matter of fact, if we look at the 10th of April 2020 years, there were 187 people in our ZIU to take care of. And after a year, today, according to the last report, those people are 192. If we remember that April 10th, everyone lived confined between the four walls of their house with fear and uncertainty installed in the body, we only went out to make the necessary purchases, to go to the pharmacy. And we also went out almost everyone to the windows at eight in the afternoon, to the balcony who could, to applaud the sanitary staff for the titanic effort... to thank you for the titanic effort you were making in the hospitals in front of this... a virus that was unknown. And a year later we're in the same numbers. A year later, we again have a health system that is on the verge of collapse. And there are critical units in the... Today the critical units in hospitals are, more or less, also in the same numbers. It's a fourth wave. Not the second, not the third, it's the fourth. And we can still say, I don't know, we'll make the same mistakes again. I want to say when, when, you know, the RedMulch will be stronger, when will you increase your personal Osaval? It's been a year. When will it be done? Are we really supposed to admit that the non-critical operation should be stopped? Is that what you have to do? Is it possible to say that anything that rests on individual responsibilitys, or is it that the Government has not taken all the responsibility? Guk behin eta berriz esango dugu, we are not tired of saying that we need and we ask the Government to hire more personnel in Osakidetza, to reduce the unorthodox rates of temporality and also... and to strengthen the resources of public health. When the pandemic began, he found us in a structural situation, with an understaffed staff. And today the data shows us that we continue with the same structural problem. That's why I'm telling you that he's taking care of us on the back of his neck. ? .).
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Gorrotxategi, I would ask that when you refer to the situation that can be experienced in the Basque health system, throughout the whole Basque health system, and particularly in the public system, and as far as health care pressure is concerned in hospitals, you also have a complete look at what was the management example and is being the management example in Basque hospitals compared to hospitals in other autonomous communities or which may also be other countries. Look, I'd like to give you a global thought. The great variation in Britain is almost hegemonic in Europe and Eukadin. But vaccines have shown that they are effective in front of this variant. However, the dangers connected with the new variations of the virus are alarming too. South African, Brazilian or India. And yet, I think we have reason for a positive look, Mrs Gorrotxategi. The upward trend in recent weeks has stopped. The scientific and scientific authorities of the Technical Commission have expressed in their opinion the conviction that this stabilization precedes a downward phase. We've made progress on vaccination and in the next few weeks we'll do much more. At least one dose has been administered to almost 100% of risk groups and to people over 80 years of age. We move forward at a good pace with people between 60 and 80 years of age. The health situation, in fact, remains serious and worrying. But we're ready. We are prepared and we have the resources to deal successfully with the last leg of this marathon, as we did last year. I think it takes a lot of humility to tackle this pandemic with rigour, to learn from best practices, to recognize what is not known, to apply an honest way of testing-error, to respond to expert health recommendations and to seek collaboration. I guess this is applicable all over the world. There is only one analysis of the management of the governments of this pandemic at any point on the planet. Mrs Gorrotxategi, in this overall assessment, the assessment of the health situation also requires a global look. It is not a good approach to draw conclusions, for example, as is done by comparing data for a day or a week between communities. For example, Valencia, which has good data, is being referenced these days. But in February its rate, for example, reached 1,450 cases, that is, almost three times what Euskadi has today. Navarra is also being set as an example now. And yet... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... for example, it reached 1,450 cases, that is, almost three times what Euskadi has today. It is also put there as an example Navarra now and yet Navarra reached the 1,110 cases, twice the maximum reached here in Euskadi. Since the start of the second wave, all communities have reached at some point, all incidence rates higher than those recorded in Euskadi. And at this moment, to the stigmatization that is intended of Euskadi, we should add Aragón, Cantabria, Madrid, Melilla, Navarra, La Rioja or Catalonia. I wanted to share with you a global look. Look, it helps us in the historic moment of greatest difficulty that our country is going through in decades. That is why, Mrs Gorrotxategi, I am always grateful for your words of willingness to cooperate and I hope that we will be able to deepen them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "The question is, as Charles Iturgai, the popular Group Angulo Euscal, the member of the Ciudadans made to the president about the contradictions that have come to be the end of the alarm condition." My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Mr. President, good morning. There are a few days left for the end of the state of alarm, and yesterday you ruled out the state of alarm to the letter proposed by Mrs Mendia. But the Basques already know their menu, a menu unfortunately indigestive, which today, today, includes the worst situation in Spain and the worst in Europe in contagion, the biggest restrictions in the economy and employment, with the worst results against the pandemic. Unanswered letters from his partner Mr Sánchez and all possible divisions and contradictions in his Government on how to deal with the future almost every 24 hours. Therefore, I ask you as lehendakari: What is your assessment in the midst of so much contradiction of the situation before the imminent end of the state of alarm, lehendakari jauna?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u23	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Senor Iturgai, si quiere, y si necesita, le redo los lotos que antes he forrecido en la pregunta-spuesta anterior. In the place where you see contradictions, I see the same impulse as a single joke. I'm talking to you for all the fun-making goal and work for our people. We are conscious of the gravity of the situation caused by the Pandemia, and, united together, we face this situation. If any disagreement occurs, we have sufficient maturity to direct this disagreement into the constructive mode. That's the key to a coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u26	We don't have to repeat it, we all know, we've got the worst data here in Euskadin today, and that's a reality, Mr. President. Horrexegatik, I would like to remind you. Look, Mr Sánchez, his partner, has lost a year without getting to work, without legislating to have other legal instruments other than the state of alarm to deal with this pandemic. We all know that. Sánchez neither legislates nor lets legislate or, what is usually said in paladin roman, Sánchez as the hortelano dog, neither eats nor lets eat. In your government, Mr Urkullu, as I told you before, you are asking for an extension of the alarm state, and Mrs Mendia is alert to the letter. Perhaps that is why your partner, because he does not share the position of the lehendakari, with whom he does share a seat on the Governing Council, is why they say that you treat Mr Sánchez as the lehendakari, as the lehendakari, but not on behalf of the Government, he tells them. That is, you do not represent them, you represent us to the socialist fraction of the government. Naturally, Mr Sánchez has given the silence in response to your letter, which you sent him. Pure none, as usual. And today I, on the other hand, want to make you a proposal, lehendakari. A proposal that I hope my proposal does not seem to you to be that kind of barbarity that always tells my coalition when we are in this question, in this rostrum, because it really does have a remedy for Sánchez's stumbling block. There's a remedy. And I offer you the legal plan B presented by the People's Party. A plan to face rapid reforms of laws and assistants, to enable the action of the autonomous communities without the need for a state of alarm. A plan well seen, by the mouthpieces also of your party, and which would enable you to solve the two fundamental and essential issues that you know them: restrictions on mobility and health command. It is much more urgent for you to support that plan B, for the time being, than the adoption of your anti-pandemic law. And probably, probably more effective. Of course, more responsible and supportive, from my point of view, to Basque society and the Spanish as a whole. I encourage you, Lehendakari, to take advantage of the rostrum and take on that commitment, even if it bothers your partners, although your partner, Mr Sánchez, does not like me. Because, as seen, the president of the government can't deny you any more, so don't worry about it. The interest of the Basques is not to live permanently the constitutional exceptionality, even if it seems easier to you; the interest of the Basques is to have a plan B on the ninth day, although that requires talking with our group here or in Madrid. That's why, even if you don't have an answer to your partner Sánche and see if you've got another chance, Mr. President. And that's ajudic plan of the Popula Party. This plan assures us of taking measures, and with this plan we shall find solutions, I am sure.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u27	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Mr. President, your word is yours. [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u28	Eskerrik asko, legebiltzarburu andrea. Mr Iturgaiz, you speak of differences in a coalition government. Well, I'm gonna ask you to start your own house first. Agree with you within your own home, because yesterday the Castile-Leon Board, chaired by the People's Party, requested an extension of the state of alarm in the face of that initiative which you say, in any case, if it arises in the Congress of Deputies, it will have a processing time and will not arrive in any case before 9 May. And in addition, the approach of extension of the state of alarm, endorsed also by the president of the Xunta of Galicia. You speak of differences within the coalition of government. Look, Mr Iturgaiz, curiously enough, within the coalition of government we agree on the substance of the request for an extension of the state of alarm in one way or another. And I will read the last part of the letter that I sent to the President of the Spanish Government, who says: "That is why, in view of the risk of insecurity, delays in the effectiveness and the concern about the risk of social interpretation of the possibility of life without restrictions at a time when the serious incidence of the pandemic persists, I request the extension of the current state of alarm, showing my willingness to agree on its content and duration by virtue of its implementation through the command and management of the corresponding presidencies of each autonomous community, in a coordinated way throughout the State." Look, we agree on the substance, we agree on the strategy of the health system, on the budgetary priorities, on the Berpiztu plan for economic and employment recovery, on the Bizi Berri plan for the Community response, we agree to extend the agreements for the Basque Pandemic Action Act, which we have presented here. Agree to seek a context of legal certainty for preventive and restrictive measures, also after 9 May. We agree to continue to collaborate and explore ways of dialogue and collaboration to reach useful agreements between the Spanish Government, the Ministry of Health, the Interterritorial Council and the rest of the autonomous communities. You speak of contradictions, but you were already ahead of last week or 15 days ago that you are going to resort to the Basque law to the Constitution, and in turn that path is driven by the responsible (...) parties in other communities. I recommend that you read the Galician law and the opinion of the Council of State. The Basque law will not solve the legal problems of an exceptional situation such as the one posed by this pandemic, but it will help to ensure that our capacity to act is provided with greater solvency and legal certainty. We are moving towards that goal and I would like us to be able to count on your cooperation, since it has been offered, I would like us to be able to count on your cooperation and not on that permanent obstruction to date. Look, as a delegated authority that I am under the state of alarm decree, I again request the extension of the state of alarm or an alternative that provides security to decisions. I remind you that both now and in October, communities governed by your party have supported the request for an extension of the state of alarm, I insist, just yesterday Castile or León or Galicia. Look, the data, yes, the data also indicate according to the Interterritorial Council of Aragon, Cantabria, Catalonia, Valencia, Galicia, Melilla, Murcia, La Rioja, are in the (?) the same situation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. It's over. Number of points in theme list: "Ask me, Amaia Martíne, the Greyse of the Mistho Groups of Laws made for the First Vice President and Chief of Security, an agreement and conditions for prisoners with prison consent." Ms Martínnez is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u30	Thank you, Madam President, Mr Lehendakari, advisers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. At least 25% of the prisoners of the terrorist organization ETA are already serving sentences in prisons in the Basque Country, and since June 2018 Mr Sánchez has reached the presidency of the Government of Spain, there are already more than 180 terrorist prisoners who have been transferred to prisons near Euskadi. And we have recently learned of alleged irregularities in some prison permit granted by the competent judicial authority to ETA prisoners. What leads us to ask you, Mr Erkoreka, whether your department, with the transfer of prisons in hand, will guarantee the same treatment to all the population imprisoned in Euskadi, whether they are terrorist offences or not.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u31	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours. The lady's generous is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u32	Mrs Martínez, we will guarantee the same conditions and treatment to all prisoners who are in Basque prisons. I repeat, yes, because otherwise we would be committing a crime of prevarication, and we will strictly comply with the law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Ms Martínnez is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u34	Aitor Aguirrebarrena was a member of ETA's Toto command, and was very active during the early years of this century. He is held responsible for at least three murders, those of journalist López de la Calle and those of two civilian guards in Sallent de Gállego in Huesca, in addition to having participated in numerous bombings inside and outside the Basque Country. I fled to France until his arrest, today he is serving his sentence in an Asturian prison, to which he has recently approached from Cadiz. He is one of those prisoners who have signed a model document in which they claim to recognize the damage caused and in which they claim to renounce violence and to be willing to compensate the victims. Words bear everything, facts do not. We have been informed that this prisoner was granted a prison permit on 19 March to meet his relatives in Lizarza. [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... they put up with everything, not the facts. We have been informed that this prisoner was granted a prison permit on 19 March to meet his relatives in Lizarza. According to the information available to us, he had permission to hold an hour-long meeting, which finally extended some more, not less than three, with the approval of the officer responsible for the police operation accompanying him. Today I try to know whether this benevolence is common when it comes to managing any kind of prison benefit, if it is also common when the recipients are prisoners who are not of ETA. I trust that you will be able to reveal to us whether it is a normal extension of the permit granted, whether it is due to a delay or whether it is an reckless action by the agents who had to take care of what the judge had to do. In Vox we argue that we must be particularly rigorous in the enforcement of the sentences imposed on ETA prisoners, more so in the case of those who have committed crimes of the gravity of which Mr Aguirrebarrena has committed. And we are especially intransigent because there are still 379 unsolved terrorist gang crimes, which are pending resolution, in addition to a dozen disappearances. In the hands of prisoners like this gentleman is the definitive resolution of many of these cases, collaborating with the justice system, demonstrating that, indeed, a critical reflection of their violent past. We all know that this is not the case, that this document to which I have referred does not commit them at all, that it is only a door that they must cross in order to enjoy permits such as the one we are debating today in this House. A permit that, in this case, also has a fringe related to the current health crisis. Apparently, in the meeting that tells here participated no less than 14 people, surpassing by almost four times the maximum imposed by yourselves for meetings in the Basque Country. Do you have anything to say about this? Have you ordered the opening of an internal investigation to know what has happened? To inform you that, at the moment, Vox is filing a complaint with the Prosecutor's Office of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, so that it is the judicial bodies that decide what should be done, to direct the relevant investigation and to clarify what happened in Lizarza on 19 April of the current year, and to determine the responsibilities that may have been incurred. We have been warning, for weeks, of the risk of a management of Basque prisons in the hands of the Urkullu cabinet, of the real danger that the political leadership of the Ertzaintza will treat ETA prisoners favorably with respect to the rest of the population in Euskadi. Today we are bringing to this House a sample of what may be customary in the near future.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u35	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u36	The head of the table, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, good morning. Ms Martínez, Equality, Justice and Social Policy will be the Department which assumes the powers set out in the Gernika Statute in the matter of Prison Institutions. And I'm not going into your game or the rag. Mrs Martínez, I am not so naive as to think that the formula and question that your party has put to us seeks to clarify technical issues. We know that Vox just wants to confuse, distort and twist reality. We're not surprised by his demagogy. We are aware that Vox's statements on this transfer will always be irresponsible, serious and disproportionate, and I will not waste my time asking the far right to let us work in peace. It will be up to the Department of Justice to organize, regulate and operate institutions and prisons for social reintegration. We will also be responsible for the enforcement of prison legislation. This legislation is made up of the Criminal Code, the General Organic Prison Act and the Organic Judiciary Act. And this legislation applies to all prisoners, including those convicted of terrorist offences. The Criminal Code states that a penalty or security measure cannot be carried out in any manner other than prescribed by law. The Criminal Code states that such execution must be carried out under the supervision of the competent judges and courts, i.e. the Central Prison Surveillance Court and the different Criminal Chambers of the National Court. The General Organic Prison Law states that the actions of the Prison Administration must be carried out with the guarantees and within the limits set by law, regulations and court judgements. And this organic law adds that this action must be carried out without any difference being made. And all this action, too, when assumed by the Basque Government, will be and is under the control of the courts and courts. It should be recalled that the Prison Regulation states that the primary purpose of prison activity is the re-education and social reintegration of those sentenced to prison sentences and security measures. So, in spite of all the strict regulations I have defined, terrorism is the treatment of people who have committed crimes must be the same as other people who are involved in other crimes. And, therefore, as I said to you, and in strict compliance with all the regulations I have detailed to you, the prison treatment of persons deprived of their liberty who have committed terrorist offences as members of ETA, must be identical to the treatment of other persons who are incarcerated for other crimes. The Basque Government will exercise this competence in strict compliance with the law, as it could not otherwise be. And, having said that, Mrs Martínez, I would like to make it clear that all prisoners have rights. Rights that are recognized in the Spanish Constitution. Respecting the rights of prisoners cannot be understood as an aggravation of the victims. Both I and this Government have demonstrated and continue to work for the commitment we have made to accompany the victims and to promote their legal, institutional and social recognition. And we'll go on, and we'll keep fighting. And we are strong defenders, and we defend the promotion of human rights in denouncing their violations and violations, and in defending the principle of all rights for all people.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interpology, made by the members of the U.S. I.I. I.E.A.D. group members of the U.S.I.A.S.S.A.S.S.S.A.S.S.S.A.S.S.S.A.S.S.S.A.S.S.S.S.A.S.S.I.S.S.A.S.S.S.I.S.A.S. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours. [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ...about the steps to follow. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, everyone. Mr. President. On the 13th of March 2020, the Eukalk declared an emergency. Two days earlier, the Health World Organization declared panic, and one day later the Spanish Government declared alarm. After more than a year's hard fight, it's the first of the family's victims (...), Euskadin more than 4.150. It's a huge cipher that tells us the size of this pandemia. At the present day the crisis of health remains as it is, and we are still in pain. No one in the world was prepared for this. At this point, it seems that we see another horizon, we plan to share the balance of the path we have made in this interpelation. We do it with the constructive spirit to help you put and improve the answer to this pandemia. The problem of life and experience has been affected in every part of our activity. I shall mention in ten sections, though briefly, the problems, replies, and resources which have been employed in this state. It's a X-ray of Euscademic pandemia. One: the legal coverage of the decisions that have been made. It is a question of today's great importance that the hour of the 9th of May will end in the event which follows after the announcement of the alarm. It was clear from the start that extraordinary tools should be used before replying to an unusual state, or expected. For on the 13th of March 2020, and on the 17th of August, Euskakia was the first person to declare and activate the autonomy community. In the 23rd of October, and in the United States of the Central Autonomy of Euskal Autonomy, in front of the three negative resolutions given in LABI, you demanded to declare the state of alarm. December 'Equekong proposed changing the contents of the royal Decree, and a few days ago you asked the President of the Spanish Government to prolong his alarm. The aim is to be all the jurists, the institutional and the political, who are to support their decisions. In that valley, we have here a law proposal against the pandemia, which we are working in this Chamber. Two: a new model of governance in the face of the crisis has been needed. Decisions taken before the pandemic have involved all institutional levels. Thus, new frameworks for communication, collaboration and multi-level governance have been established. In Euskadi, this model is represented by the LABI Advisory Council, a model of effective co-governance. The information to this House has been, and is, permanent, and will remain so for as long as the crisis lasts. Unfortunately, this new framework has not prevented an overexcited political criticism, in which it can undoubtedly be described as a supporter use of the pandemic. Three: the priority of health management. From the first day it was necessary to deal with serious problems in the field of health care. In the first few months we suffered from shortages of PPE, masks, respirators or sanitary material. Needs that have occurred all over the world. We also verified the need to increase the ability to perform tests, screenings and screenings, as well as the hospital reorganization to respond to the care pressure of beds and UCI squares. Problems have existed, but each of these problems has found an effective solution within a reasonable time. Osakidetza has shown ability to adapt in its hospital reorganization, avoiding any situation of collapse. He has always acted with his own resources, and, in addition, Euskadi has been supportive of the communities that have needed him. In this same situation we are also now, with a system of health tense to the maximum, but that resists thanks to its strength, fruit of years of consolidation and the effort of its professionals and managers. Four: residences and management socializations. COVID-19a is one of the most serious problems of this pandemia having entered the sociospheres of residence. The consequences of this have been peculiarly destructive and painful. From the start additional protocols and resources of prevention were activated. All this in the circle of co-ordination and cooperation between the health department and the aldubic forums. It's been for months to reduce and limit the initial influence. They were elderly people, with sanitarian professionals and sociatives, the first team who got vaccination. In three months the whole process has been completed. Five: help for most damaged sectors. The impact of this pandemy has affected all the levels of our life, even in economic activity and employment. My answer to that was immediate. You proposed to the Spanish Government, in the model of Germany, to encourage the ERITE figure. 'Eunk Aunch's two proclamations were accepted to complete those eucaidins. The budget games were reassembled and a first collision was accepted for departments like guests, tourism, culture, industry, and trade. Social programs have started to support people, families, and weakest sectors. The government has more than 1,400 million euros to the covid fund, and has guaranteed 1,500 million euros and started subsidies. Six: the presence of education. He decided to close up one of the schools which he'd been to, the autonomy community. All the schools were shut up in the after-house, and the presence in the classrooms was broken. Euskaki had made a protocol with security and safe return before school was finished. And the increase of human resources and material resources was remarkable. The Education Department has cost 225 million dollars an extra expense for that. This purpose has been achieved through the courage of the department and the education community... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... It cost 225 million Euro extra expenses. This purpose has been achieved through the courage of the department and the education community. Seven, the economy's recovering and keeping up for jobs. The health crisis has hit our economy and jobs hard. Impenetrability was a priority. So the first plan to promote the economy and collide was accepted and 465 million dollars were added to support the production rate. Eight, Bizi Berri Plan and new culture for community life. The unknown and unpredictable nature of this pandemic makes it very difficult to work with a clear forecast of evolution beyond two weeks. The Basque Government has launched the Bizi Berri Plan, updated by the LABI technical committee. Bizi Berri offers us a basis to guide the new culture of coexistence and social life in the post covid scenario. Nine, rigour and social co-responsibility. On the basis of Bizi Berri, orders or decrees have been issued that have offered society a regulatory framework aimed at safeguarding public health. All this has been complemented by a commitment to transparency, explanation and communication to citizens, with specific awareness-raising campaigns. We must recognize that, despite the undeniable pandemic fatigue, the attitude of rigour and co-responsibility that is prevailing in Basque society is commendable. Ten, the vaccination response. It's been four months since the vaccination campaign started. A complex route, linked to the delivery schedule and the volume of doses received. The doubts in the supply do not allow planning with guarantees, and generate some understandable anxiety among the population. However, Osakidetza is effectively developing a vaccination plan. Today Osakidetza is administering all the vaccines she receives. And this reality is implying great social relief, especially among the most vulnerable. This is, in short, the course of these 14 months of response to a long, hard and unknown pandemic. It is understandable, yes, the social fatigue. But the Government's efforts to maintain a balance in deciding the measures to be taken must be acknowledged. In this context, in the final stage of this marathon, we have known the intention of the Spanish Government not to extend the state of alarm decree on 9 May. This situation can lead to uncertainty, as communities lose tools and security to deal with the pandemic. Without this umbrella, restrictions on mobility, for example, one of the most useful measures, could not be implemented. President, in the present case, what are the predictions of the President in the next week's strategy and the steps to follow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u39	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. In answer, Mr President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Iturete, last Saturday, we had a new opportunity to remember the people who died in this pandemy in Saldema. It was a touching event, and we gave our condolences and solidarity to all the relatives of the dead. Since Pandemia began, 4,187 people have died. These people are, and they will always be, the priority of our memory. After all, the number of people who have died is to have the smallest possible priority of all our undertakings. Considering this purpose, I shall begin by presenting the development of the measures already established. On the 13th of March the other year, we accepted an emergency report under cover of LABA. From then on we've lived five ascending processes on the curve of the epidemic: March April, July August, October, January and now the fifth, March April. Each of these processes of elevation, and the descent of the recent independences, has not only been answered to a local reality. We must consider the state, the tendency of Europe, and the global inertia of the world. Within these general tendencies, the data shows changes. And experts don't always find answers to those changes. Nevertheless, we agree with some general conclusions. We know that preventive and restrictive measures are effective. We know that filling the measurements prevents starting an upward tendency. In this valley, we are getting to have the summit of each new stage of elevation lower than before summer. This data is very important. The measures taken, and that the whole strategy follows, are supposed to have positive consequences. The effort and implementation of the measures by society offers positive results, especially in the primary objective, to minimize the incidence of the disease, in order to preserve the most precious we have, life. This is the common goal, to reduce people who have died throughout this pandemic. Since the summer we are getting the peak of each new phase to be lower than the previous ones. The last process of his life, in which we are, began on 11 March. Since then the peak of positives occurred on April 21, with 1,013 cases. The rate seems to have hit the roof this past Monday. This phase of his life has behaved differently from the previous two. The slope of the curve has been less vertical and the peak lower, but its duration has been longer. The effects of Saint Joseph's weekend, Holy Week, Cup finals, Itzulia or other factors have been able to affect this different behavior. Alongside this, the influence of virtually total supplantation of the original variant by the British should be considered. Now the incidence of the South African variant is added... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... should be considered the influence of virtually total supplantation of the original variant by the British. Now we add the incidence of the South African variant as well as something Brazilian and Indian without influence, for the moment. The measures adopted by the decree of 26 March have been adequate to address this upward phase. We said that these were not measures designed for a few days, but designed to be useful for weeks. They were designed to respond to a situation like that which we are suffering from with measures for localities with a rate of more than 400 cases. The value of these measures is that they are not static. Their rigour increases as the situation worsens and diminishes when it improves. If the evolution of the pandemic has been a pattern similar to that of previous phases, it is foreseeable that we will witness a process of decline in the several-week curve. It is essential that this positive forecast can be promoted and confirmed, first and foremost, in order to make every possible progress in the vaccination process. Secondly, so that the reduction in incidence leads to distension and pressure on the hospital system. We reached the peak of this phase with a high degree of pressure in the hospital occupation and UCI beds. We're on stage three out of five, about four. The rate is expected to fall in the coming weeks, but the pressure on the health system will be maintained during the month of May. We are prepared and have resources to deal with this situation. Our priority objective is to return to stage one in relation to ICUs. The less contagion, the less hospital income, the less ICU income and the less deaths. Our primary goal is to go back to the first stage of health professionals need our empathy and complete solidarity. We have a precise way of reflecting this solidarity, to prevent each of us from infecting the circle of personal life and social life, and to prevent all prevent preventive measures. In this end also the extension of insertion gives us a tremendous contribution. May and June will be months of special importance. Two goals connected, perhaps during the last few months they can resist and lead us to action. First, we must stabilize the tendency of the independence rate. The goal is to get down below 200 cases as soon as possible again, and not go back. To achieve this goal, it is necessary that after the 9th of May, the legal camp should be clear so that it can continue applying efficient barriers to the transmission of virus. Secondly, we must make sure that we win by the descent of the contagion by moving forward in the vaccine. If the drug available is guaranteed, our goal is to put vaccine on all citizens over 50 years as fast as possible. We maintain the objective of returning to the situation of 200 cases per 100,000 in the shortest space of time. In order to achieve this objective, after 9 May, a clear legal framework for action is needed to further implement effective measures. In addition, in three months we have vaccinated the priority groups: residences, health personnel, socio-health workers, over 80 years of age. We are hopeful that this second trimester vaccination can progress with fewer setbacks. We have administered more than 740,000 doses. If the supply is maintained, we can get the population over 50 years of age vaccinated by summer. And this could very ostensibly reduce the current occupation of ICUs. The key to hope lies in the combination of these two objectives: reducing the incidence of the virus to a minimum and bringing vaccination to a maximum. It is essential that we work with a team. Now more than ever, we all have to focus on contributing to the achievement of these two objectives. We must comply with all measures, work together with solidarity and avoid contagion. In this regard, the Technical Commission of the LABI Advisory Council underlines a concern, but not a majority. It detects that in sectors of society there is a loss of respect for basic self-protection measures, an reckless, extremely dangerous relaxation. It observes groups of people who disregard the interpersonal distance of meter and a half in any area or the restriction of grouping to a maximum of four. On the terraces it is increasingly customary not to use the mask or its inconsistent use. Non-compliances are repeated in indoor sports practice or group training. The Technical Commission appreciates a lack of concern about the habit of ventilating interior spaces or the false consideration that meetings between non-living persons in homes or private spaces are safe. The recommendation of the Technical Commission is to unite forces to reiterate the decisive importance of preventive measures: constant pulse of mask, interpersonal distance of meter and half, always and in every area and place, limit the groupings to a maximum of four people, avoid situations of prolonged relationship with non-convivors and constant ventilation of interior spaces. If we comply rigorously and progress in vaccination, we will relieve the health system and recover a life with fewer restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u42	President andrea. Thank you, President, for the explanation. You're right, Mr President, when you say: the number of dead people being the least possible priority of all our enterprises. Above everything else, that's what he's meant to be. First of all, life and health. It's clear that that's what's meant to happen, and that's what they're doing now. You even said, in answer to a previous question, Euskakia is the community that testes most. That makes fewer people get sick and fewer people die. But that ought not to let us look at our navel... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... by this means fewer people get ill and fewer people die. But this ought not to let us look at our navel; And we're sure of it. We face an unknown virus until recently and, like many others throughout history, it is capricious and unpredictable. In any case, every day we are looking more for the virus and improving the response, here and in the rest of the world. However, as with other infections or other pandemics, we do not escape opportunistic infections or opportunistic diseases either in this one. Like these, there are those who take advantage of the situation of low defenses or weakening of the immune system to attack the body. Unfortunately, over the past 14 months we have had too many examples of opportunistic attacks that have felt that this was the right time to weaken and, if possible, to put an end to the Government. It is those who even in the most delicate and difficult times place their own particular obsessions and interests above the general interest. Faced with these insolidary attitudes, these obsessions with winning the opponent costs what it costs, it is fair to recognize perseverance and the hard work. While the government is busy and directed to guard the health of the whole community, there is another pandemy: Political panic. But there is no longer any policy against the virus against the common struggle. It's not time for fear, just words, or slogans. We have to work together, yes, and even do effective reviews to help improve the response given to this crisis. In reality, the majority social attitude has been of understanding, support and collaboration. An attitude that recognizes a Government focused on the goal of preserving personal and public health, focused on preventing illness and death, focused on maintaining our economy and employment in a balanced manner in order to achieve a faster recovery when the disease passes. We have strict measures, which has a great influence on our people. People are tired. We're all tired. But, as you say, we need a final push and, in this last stage, we need to follow the rules we've followed so far. In the same way, society requires hope, and it wants to ensure that the tunnel has an end, and it requires clear and assured instructions. We only have a week to invalidate the order of alarm state. In the next few weeks we'll still have our hospitals and the ZaUs. It seems as if the rate of infection has reached its height and will decrease, but it is still necessary to maintain its measures, and to do so requires assurances. On our side, we'll take all the steps we have to take. We'll work on the legislature as soon as possible for the legal proposition against the Covid, and we'll try to achieve the most extensive majority. Society also needs a positive vision, a message of hope, that light reaches the end of the tunnel. It seems that there are also reasons for this, lehendakari, although there is never lack of the aggravations of the permanent apocalypse, which do nothing but highlight the negative, and even invent it if necessary. It is up to the Government to continue its work. Strictly manage, cope with continuous day-to-day changes and maintain hope. He knows that for this he has all the support of this group and the PNV as a whole. The demonstrated trajectory and the current situation offer us more reasons for confidence and hope. We think we've been tougher, and now we've got more confidence and more hope. During these 14 months we've heard and seen difficulties and problems in days. At the same time, without losing their prudence, society requires and deserves to know the positive view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u43	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Iturate, thank you for your words. Yes, I shall mention the positive parties which deserve to be observed in this second part of it. In this serious condition of the Pandemia, there is no doubt but to admit difficulties. But it's as important as that to highlight the positive references we find. I think it's fair to say three examples of resilence against the pandemia. The first example is the response capacity of the Basque Health System. After 57 weeks of pandemic, we can evaluate three objective data. First, more tests are carried out in Euskadi. This is prevention. This week they'll reach three million. We're the state community that does the most testing. Euskadi, just in the last week, 3,500 per 100,000 inhabitants, almost twice the average of 1,900 in the state. More testing leads to higher incidence rates. True, but the important thing is that it allows you to better control the transmission of the virus, avoid new infections, limit the number of sick people, hospitalizations and income in ICUs. Ultimately, it means reducing deaths. Secondly, in Euskadi there are fewer contagions, fewer people with covid disease. Data from the Ministry of Health's seroprevalence study: the average in the State, 7% of the infected population; in Euskadi, 5.9%; for example, in Madrid, 12%. These data show that in Euskadi there have been fewer people infected and have suffered from the disease. Thirdly, the increase in the number of people who have died has been further contained in the Basque Country. Everything we do is aimed at an end: preserving health and life. INE data: 20.9% increase in deaths in the state during 57 weeks of pandemic compared to the previous period. In Euskadi... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... 20.9% increase in deaths in the state during the 57 weeks of pandemic compared to the previous period. In Euskadi, the increase is 11.9%; almost half. For example, in Madrid, an increase of 41.2%. We have carried out more tests, and we have managed to reduce people infected and killed. Why? Because the measures taken have been adequate, because society is fulfilling and because the health system is functioning. I want to insist on the second example, the resililence of the company and industry. Companies and workers have had good results in keeping production as well as their best conditions, with a lesser decline of growth and of employment. We can't forget the people and families and companies that are having a bad time. We're offering answers, and helping to help people with the weakest situation. The third example is the education community. Professionals, pupils and families, responsible for the centres, have made it possible to maintain face-to-face education. This achievement is further valued when we hear that reference countries such as France or Israel have had schools or universities closed until a few days ago. Euskadi has managed to keep the classrooms of schools, vocational training and universities open. Over 98% of the classrooms have remained open throughout this course. This achievement contributes to family, social and work life. It has made it possible to maintain conciliation, or it has made a contribution to dining services or transport, for example. My appreciation, therefore, and thanks to the educational community for their commitment. I'll end up with a hope message. In May and June, we will keep the essential struggle, to leave this nightmare behind us. We stand before the ultimate effort, with all humility and all the strength of our society, I give the following message to the whole community. Let's do one. Let's make measures for the end of the range that we've been so close to, to recover the life and life we've so long dreamed of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Jule's Arzuga Gumuzius EH Collectorda, the first member of the group of U.S. Presidents and Securitys, about the attitude of fascism and racialism in front of the indications of the Border." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u46	Yeah, good morning, everybody. Thank you, Mr. President. We've been seeing a surge of Fascism's presence lately spread everywhere, in every area, throughout all the fields of life. And the Security Department, Mr. Erkoká, has had two compromises in the past few days with a phoscist, racist or supremist attitude. In the first place, the edge offered protection to the Mafia corporation at Abadon when the people who lived in a building were threatened by force, by fear, and without any legal order. On the other hand, a borderer made the Blue Lives Matter rightima apology in EIBn, and you didn't see the watering of any deontological code in it. And we're really worried about having attitudes like that on the edge, or connections like that. And so I ask you, Mr. Erkoa, whether you have enough courage to answer such an event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u47	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Azuga, the edge must be opposed to fascist, supremist, racist, because he is legally obliged to it and he does it in his daily practice. And if a single case occurs, then that which is not given is precisely for this very reason that so many methods and contrivances, so as to set them in motion and set them in motion when it is just and for this purpose objective reasons. Because that's what you're doing, and that's what you're doing, you know, the Euskal Rakal City University every year, and that's what you're supposed to know, and the last, 2020 years, we're going to be here for a week. It is, then, because firmness, the most brilliant, and the strongest, is bound to this law, and is also directed to it by its natural disposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u49	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u50	Yes, Mr. Erkoreka, there's one thing the law says, but I'm asking you for practice. And I know the report of hatred, I study it well, but that's what makes the citizens most of what they do. And I'm asking you what the police do, and if they do that kind of connection with the police, or if that kind of position exists with the tip of their hands. Because, I'm really worried, because I heard the leader of this association, of this mafia, fascist company, Desokupa, saying they prepared that operation along with the Ertzaintza. And I don't want to believe this fascist leader, but I want to believe the counselor, who specifically explains to me how that operation was designed in Abadiño. And I don't want you to be contemporary, but I want you to give me a plausible explanation of how you prepared this operation and whether there was any form of collusion with this company or with this association. And I want you to explain to me, and I don't want you to contemporaneously, when you tell me that Blue Lives Matter tells me that it's a retired American police association. But it's something else. That is much more, Mr Erkoreka, because it is an association, it is a supremacist, racist group, which also seeks impunity for American police officers who have committed very serious human rights violations. And you, in a way, justify that this ertzaina can go out with that T-shirt on the ETB... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... United States of America, which has committed very serious human rights violations. And you, in a way, justify the fact that this ERTZAINE can go out with that T-shirt on the ETB. They justify it. And it gives me the impression that by that slippery slope it leads to the cliff. Because these fascist sectors are gaining prominence in all areas of social, institutional, political life and are infiltrating police, other police. And what I want to know is also if they're present, if they're infiltrating the Ertzaintza, because I'm very worried. Recently this week we had a debate, in which you ridiculed and said that our police model is that of Cuba, that of North Korea. I would never tell you that your police model is that of the Turkish police, that of the Colombian police or that of the Gestapo, because I do not feel responsible. But we do see that there are some attitudes that worry us very much. And the Ertzaintza is not free to be parasitized by these ultra-rightist sectors. And we see that there are discriminatory operations and there are operations that carry out Ertzaintza with racist component. And we see that sometimes they exhibit fascist symbols. And in some cases some ertzainas are also trained by dark organisms such as the Brazilian Special Police Operations Battalion. And you cannot be neutral, Mr Erkoreka, in the face of these facts. Between fascism and antifascism...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u51	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u52	...there's no intermediate point.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u53	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Your time is up. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Arzuaga, beyond the contextualizing description, which may or may not be shared in the nuances and in the terms in which you have made it, you have cited two cases. But I'm going to tell you that there's no case in either of us, no matter how much you try to inflate the ideals of my mission. You told me about the Desokupa case. I'll give you... I'm going to make a strong statement. Look, the Ertzaintza with the company Desokupa had no relationship either before, during, or after the events of Abadiño. Not before, not during, not after. It is true that the Ertzaintza was present there when, at the request of the owner of the premises, the corresponding Ertzaintza was phoned saying that there was a group of people who were making insults and threats. For this reason, a patrol was introduced and the competitors were identified. But with the person... with the company, with that company, that Ertzaintza did not know or knew that it was intervening in that situation, had neither at first, nor during, nor after absolutely no contact. Therefore, everything that has been circulating in this regard is untrue. I'm glad you didn't want to believe in the crap. It is true that they have reproduced them everywhere, in all the means they have been able to, but it is a hoax that has no foundation. With regard to the appearance of an ertzaine on television with a certain t-shirt. Look, regardless of what they say about that entity, that American association, I've gone where you have to go when you have to operate rigorously and seriously, to the official website of that organization. The official website says that it is an association of American police and ex-police that aims to claim its role, claim its good name and ask the public authorities that attacks on American police can also be interpreted and criminalized as hate crimes. It is an approach that can be shared or not. It is a group, a collective, that can fall more or less sympathetic to the collective. Everyone will see exactly whether the people who are part of that organization and the way they conduct themselves are attractive or not. What has no doubt is that this is an association, in principle, legal, non-illegal, non-criminal. And what happens today, from the perspective of the guarantees and rights that I am sure you share, is to take no disciplinary action against a person because he has publicly expressed loyalty to an organization from that perspective. You might like it more or less. It can be more or less in tune with the approaches and dynamics of this group. But it is neither illegal nor criminal and, of course, in no way can it serve as a basis for opening any disciplinary file. He has therefore cited two cases, but there is no case in either case. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u55	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. 9th point on the subject list: "Queen Martiniz was asked by the staff of the Podemos-Nozzer by the First Vice President and Security Committee, about the behavior of the border in the mutations of the past few weeks." Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u56	Yeah. Thank you. Mr. Erkoreka, I have to ask you again about this. I've already asked you about certain police actions that have been given to the worker's mobilization, and some police actions that have been given in the San Francisco district. But you know, like me, that the crisis is going on and that we're in a violent crisis and that the mobilizations of the worker will last. Workers live in these mutations moments of tension, their occupation, because they're defending their conditions. And they can't stand the repression from the edge. This tension must be handled by the edge, and its police actions must be adopted at these moments of tension. We've heard it over and over again in different mutations, but even in the past few days, they've been rated from the workers of Tubacex that they feel as if they were degenerated from the extreme. That's why I'm asking you: What rating do you take on these police actions?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u57	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Martínnez, you asked your question about the opinion of the bureau in the attitude of the Border around the ultimate mutations. Klaro, so premeditated, seeing such an indepressous question, I took a test to see how many mutations have been the last three of the Euskatads in four months. Well, since January 1st, and until today, there have been more mutations than 5600, all of which have been communicated. They weren't even commiserated. Of these the bordering has not, therefore, taken a part in more than 90%, nor had any presence at all, because they have no question about it. My question was, then, where did he put the focus so that I could know what my questioner is about and what I can tell him about? I answered later on a question similar to this question, which you have asked me, that the edge, in itself, has no special occupation in the shallow confessions, there are other organs in the administration which contain a certain and exact task.... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... Borders, in themselves, have no particular business in the shallow confessionals, other organs in the Administration contain a certain and exact task; to make decisions, media, intermediations, and so forth. There are other organs for that purpose. Borderism, either in the quarrels between the workmen or in the other communities, is equally independent of each other; but when it has done abuse in the exercise of its rights, and has violated the rights and liberties of others, and consequently introduced into the waters, it may be painful to water or to be administrative. Then, in the ordinary medium of a charge, he must necessarily participate, always considering the principle of rank. For it is the principle of Heinicity, above and below, the chief principle of its action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u59	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u60	15 days ago, Mr Erkoreka, at this very hour five parliamentarians and five Tubacex workers invited to this plenary were pushed and prevented from entering this Parliament. But the most serious thing that happened that day in that mobilization, that when that mobilization – and the Ertzaintza knew it perfectly – was to dissolve was violently dissolved, creating quite serious wounds to different workers. And, in addition, the Ertzaintza started the load, as can be seen in videos of certain journalists. Is that in some police proportionality manual? I'd miss myself a lot and worry, too. And what has happened, for example, with 1 May, which is tomorrow, is already particularly scandalous to me, because you will tell me that it was the High Court that prevented mobility in the morning to come to a mobilization. But no. The High Court responds to an appeal from the unions to an order from its Department, to an order that prevents mobility to attend these demonstrations for the first time in what we are alarmed about, if we remove and exclude the period of confinement. They are impeding the exercise of a fundamental right. And why is this decision now made?, if it has been proven that the trade union movements, the social movements, the feminist movement demonstrated on March 8 that they can be mobilized and can carry out actions of care and self-care, as has been done so far. It seems surprising to us. And you were talking about Desokupa now, so was Mr. Arzuaga. You say that you have not collaborated the Ertzaintza in that illegal eviction, because, as you well know, in a rule of law the evictions have to be done by the police under judicial order. Many times questionable too, but they have to do so. What then was the Ertzaintza device doing surrounding that building? He identified some members of a company who presumed on social networks at the same time to have the collaboration of Ertzaintza; a company, moreover, which has clear links with the ultra-right and with fascism in the Spanish state. What about the Ertzaintza? Did you identify anyone from that company? Because you didn't say anything about it. And that would seem particularly serious to us, that the Ertzaintza alone and exclusively will devote itself to looking at what was going on outside when a totally illegal eviction was taking place of vulnerable people who were being threatened by a fascist enterprise. By the way, with what mobility permit did you come to that company to Euskadi? Did you control the Ertzaintza to control the access of those workers or supposed workers of that company? All of this, Mr Erkoreka, obscures the work of thousands of inertzainas who in certain units in citizen security, in traffic, in research, in rescue, etc., do an exemplary job. It is time, Mr Erkoreka, to treat vulnerable citizens, vulnerable citizens, workers and workers as prime citizens, to treat them as the Security Adviser; exactly the same, because we all have to be equal and Ertzaintza has to adapt to that situation. There are no first-class citizens or second-class citizens, and the Ertzaintza has to respect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u61	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u62	Mrs. Chief. Well, I'm drawn to this retaliation of unfounded and uncharacteristic accusations. You asked a written question, but were in such a hurry to compete in today's plenary, that both of you have anticipated the written question to bring it to plenary and that they are the fundamentals in putting them here in plenary; both of you. I have already prepared the question in writing, but, well, I was surprised to see the question now put for the oral session. Well, there's one question, Mr. Martinez, which I'm surprised, I made a strong statement to you about what was the participation of Ertzaintza in the Abadiño affair. No relationship. I understand that you resist to believe yourself, not to accept the mischief that suits you. I accept, among other things, yes, the post-truth goes that way, that you have had a certain input, that you are pleased, that you want to take advantage of it, and that you therefore resist the truth. The Ertzaintza had no relationship before or during or after. As regards the actions of the Ertzaintza in relation to the police or the workers' collective, I have already told you clearly that with the workers' collective or with other collectives it always acts exclusively when it is found that there is an excess in the exercise of the right which may collide with the rights and freedoms of third persons in the event of an administrative infringement. There's no more. And in that it does not distinguish between anyone, neither workers nor non-workers, everyone exactly the same. Like, you and me, exactly the same if we were doing something like that. Therefore, do not invoke the principle of equality, because the principle of equality is the maximum rule, one of the maximum rules that inspire the performance of Ertzaintza in its ethical code, which appears in the Police Act adopted in its last amendment in this House. As for the May 1 demonstrations, what do you want me to tell him? The case law is clear and the performance of the Department of Security has always been the same...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u63	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Your time is up. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Jon Hernandez Hidalgo, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos, the second vice president, and the head physician of Empedugu, to reduce the rate of his work by accident." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u64	Yes, good morning. Vicelehendakari andrea, as you know, yesterday April 28 was celebrated the Day of Health and Occupational Safety, the date chosen by the workers' movement, by the trade union movement, to remind workers who lose their lives and who lose their health in accidents at work and because of illnesses of labor origin, but also to denounce the reasons behind this great scourge. I mean, not just to report... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... but also to denounce the reasons behind this great scourge. In other words, not only to denounce the consequences, but also and above all, to denounce the origin, the root, the reasons for them. Last year, the year 2020, as you know, a year, in quotes, very special, despite the paralysis, slowdown of the economy due to the pandemic, the numbers of deaths at work in Euskadi were not reduced. This has also led to an increase in the ratio of deaths at work in Euskadi to the number of accidents, and it seems to us to be a matter of real concern. That is why we would like to know what they will do to reverse these bad figures, because they are bad figures and we know that behind these bad figures is the lives of too many workers who do not come home after a working day, something that should not happen in any case.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u65	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. In answer, Mrs. Mountain is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u66	Yes, thank you, Mr. Hernández, for asking me this question. I think it's a very important subject for everyone. And I've always said here, even in this legislation, that data is important, but not just that we should discuss the facts, right? Like you said, she can't die for work, can she? A single dead man for us, and I believe for all of us, is a tragedy. And I think that's what we see about it that we didn't avoid accidents. And that's where we're at the bureau and Osala, that's what we're working on. Osalan was created 28 years ago to prevent accidents, and from this time until now, Euskalin, he's half-dreamed. We have to continue our commitment. Security and health, as you know, are not obtained by decree, unfortunately. And I call it, and I believe that cooperation is necessary between all the workers, between all economic and social agents, prevention, enterprise, prevention, prevention, prevention, and the commitment to the administration, of course? Now what are we doing? Well, we're working on a new strategy of security and health strategy for the next four years.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u68	Bai, in fact, it is not just a matter of discussing data, but above all, and that is why I was focusing on my question on the reasons behind this great scourge, because if 2021 is also not reducing deaths in accidents at work, on the contrary, it seems that to date they are increasing, I want to say that the policies designed to end this situation, with these accidents, because they are failing, continue to fail, and therefore, we have to amend them, we have to correct them, we have to extend them to those which are the right ones. Labour health legislation is not widely complied with, in Euskadi it is not complied with, and this has been reported by trade unions over time for many years. And it is not fulfilled for a reason, because many companies do not take seriously those preventive measures to which you have referred. That is why it is good to talk about prevention and implement prevention policies, but it is necessary, and that we have insisted on many times, it is necessary more control for companies to comply, it is necessary more control, and I would say, it is necessary more hard hand in this respect. Yes, through the Labour Inspectorate and Osalan, of course you know that we are supporters, we believe that we must resize, we have always said, the Labour Inspectorate and Osalan, but also through all the policies of the Basque Government that affect the world of work, which are in the field of employment, as is the competence of your department, but which are, cross-cuttingly speaking, almost all the policies that have to be implemented or that put into effect in your political diary the Basque Government, because many of them almost all affect the world of work. Because in addition to this lack of prevention, another of the fundamental reasons behind the bad figures that we have, is the business model that there is, based on an absolute abuse of subcontracting services to reduce costs in companies, which generates more precariousness, and more precariousness, more accidents at work. We therefore believe that the policies they develop must also be designed to put an end to this business model which is generating increasingly precariousness in Euskadi, but all the measures that can be implemented in prevention will be of no use in the face of this model which increases insecurity every day. We must comply with the government agreement to put an end to labour reform, but you have the competence to fight the model that...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u69	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The mountain is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u70	Yes, Mr Hernández, well, what am I going to say to you, that we are not in the Basque Government, in my department, in all the government departments, nor in the Ministry of Labour are in the cross-arms with regard to this situation. And it's true, the data, as I told you in Basque, a dead man is already a tragedy for everyone, and we really have the same data this year as in 2020, at least for the moment, so we're not satisfied, and from Osalan, as I said, what we do is call together efforts. But the most beneficial thing I think is also the important work being done by Osalan, who has developed Osalan in the field of occupational health throughout 2020, during all these years of pandemic, which has allowed the job in Euskadi to be lower than the rest of the autonomous communities, and that has been thanks to the collaboration with social and economic actors, developing these plans so that companies can have a lower incidence of work and have a restart of activities. We have focused on SMEs in the past year, because they are the ones that have the least prevention services, the more difficulties they have in prevention policies, and they are the ones that do not have prevention delegates on many occasions, I am thinking about shops, hotels, farms, wineries, and Osalan has been following them in this pandemic, supporting them continuously. And you also know that... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... the hospitality, in the stands, in the wineries, and Osalan has been after them in this pandemic, supporting them continuously. And you also know that, in recent months, we have launched the Observatory for the Prevention of Occupational Risks in SMEs. But you said well what can we do here in Euskadi, to improve the importance of occupational health, in the quality of employment? And, above all, in that, in employment. In the Basque Government we have designed a Basque employment strategy looking at 2030, with a long-term view, focusing on people and on the quality of people's employment. And there occupational health is a very important chapter. We will have an opportunity to discuss this strategy here in Parliament. We will have an opportunity to listen to all the parliamentary groups. You will be able to make contributions, enrich that document, because it will be a strategy that will navigate not only in this legislature, but in the next two. Therefore, let anyone who governs Euskadi have a strategy shared by most of the political forces in this country, and let him look at the challenges of the future that we already have at our doors, but, above all, focus on the person and the quality of employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Thank you. Number of points in theme list: "Interlation, by Oster, Galiron, EH Collectors of the Union to the Chief of Economics of Economy, patience, and environmental department, about to install a gigaphatory for the production of electric batterys." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u72	Yes, thank you, ma'am. Good noon, everyone. Good afternoon, Mrs. Tapia. I think that we'll agree that it's not a discussion that the sector of automation is the important thing in the Basque Country, the sector is completely strategic. There are more than 300 of them in the arcba, Biscaia, and Gipuzian companies connected with the sector, 40,000 decent jobs in an additional automation industry. It's a huge piece of work that makes it cross. He makes 20% of the UFI, innovation, and development investments. The data has been re-appeared here. I won't be long. In any case, it's quite out of the question that there is an correlation between our prosperity and the importance of automoment. And I'd say a dependency too. And this is no big deal. The automation sector is deep in the deepest transformation in the last 100 years. And today's great challenges take the sector completely. It's just a climatical challenge of technology and neurosurgent. I don't have time to prolong digital self-remogination challenges directly, but they're there, Connectivity, autonomous vehicles, advanced manufacturing, new advanced components and so on. And all this will have a huge impact on our industry. There are also the new tendency to mobileness, shared cars, mobiles as services, etc. There'll be opportunities, options, but there's risks too. And in order to briefly explain, we have been some kind of specialists in hardware, but software in the automation string (... ), and here we are not so delicate. The other main challenge is connected to climate emergency. Transport CO 2 So far as it's the main plunger, it's urgent to give a change in the latest product of automation, that is to say, in the vehicle. That's right. To unthankful vehicles. And this change is already in progress. Although the process is still on its principles in heavy vehicles, though the survival technology is not clear, the transformation in light vehicles is already accelerated by the electrocution of the vehicles. It's already an electrician, and the tendency is unstoppable. The different countries in Europe are beginning to end thermal Motors. And as far as we're exporters, these predictions get us all the way. The new climate of Spain, on which it is agreed, CO 2 the light vehicles that flow will not be sold after 2040. That's not tomorrow, but it's after planning tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. And the Euro 7 rule will also accelerate the process by a very severe discharge. Most car brands are getting along: the whole power of the electric offer, which is the head of Volkswagen, or the predicting of the whole electrocution as a Ford, leaving the growth of thermal engines as Renault or Audi, or electing integrated electrocutions like Volvo. It's not a future matter, and the results are already on the table. The Association of European Builders has just published the results of tourism sales in Europe for the first quarter of this year, and the results are enlightening. The total number of vehicles sold with electrified propulsion exceeds one million, and almost doubles to diesel. Of these, more than 200,000 are pure electric, with a 55 % sales increase, while petrol and diesel sales fell by 19 and 21 %, respectively. The trend is unstoppable. And the niches of opportunity are obvious, but there are threats as well. The joint study of the German Fraunhofer Institute and the IG Metall union leaves little room for doubt. The change in the motorization of thermals to electrics can lead to a 25% reduction in industrial jobs in Germany associated with the manufacture of vehicles. And KPMG gives similar numbers across Europe. The reason is simple and well known. Electric vehicles have much less components than thermals, especially because the propulsion system is much simpler. And, without going into what it can mean in terms of employment, mode changes in transport, the shared vehicle, mobility as a service, automation of advanced manufacturing processes, etc. So the question would not be whether it will be possible to maintain current employment, but whether, in the enormous transformation of the productive fabric associated with automotive, the net employment balance can be positive or at least not negative. And resolving this doubt, at least for our country, is crucial. Because you can hold one to what there is, which is much and is done well, or you get into full transformation. And I believe that, in the medium term, the answer is very clear. Although, anyway, this inquiry does not intend to go so far, let's say, because in order to analyze all this we proposed a presentation, which was rejected. And we do not even intend to solve today many of the issues related to electrification of the mobile park, such as the expansion of the recharge network, promotion of purchase, professional training, associated taxation, etc. But yes, today we did want to emphasize one of the key aspects in the process of electrification of light vehicles, which is closely... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ...associated taxation, etc. But yes, today we did want to emphasize one of the key aspects in the process of electrification of light vehicles, which is closely linked to the future use of the automotive sector, and I am talking, of course, about the manufacture of electric vehicle batteries. Why? Well, two main reasons. The first is that the battery is the soul of the electric vehicle and in large numbers it accounts for almost half the weight of the price of the value and benefit of the electric vehicle. So whoever doesn't make batteries will have it very complicated in the future. And the second reason is that the battle for the manufacture of electric vehicle batteries is taking place today, both globally and intra-Europeanly. Once Germany and France and their companies, which are the tractors, have made a clear commitment in Europe to the electric vehicle. The announcements of factory installation projects capable of producing batteries for large-scale electric vehicles, or what has come to be called gigafactories, happen constantly. There are a lot of projects. But, in any case, it is important to pay attention to the report just published this week by the Swiss ABB group, because it says that the capacity to produce batteries must be considerably increased in order to meet the demand projected in the coming years. Today the European battery production capacity is 60 gigawatts, 13% of the world's demand, while 77% is in Asia. However, Europe aims to regain positions in the global market and there is a whole strategy for this. So, according to ABB, by 2030 Europe could multiply its production capacity by 16 times and reach 33% of world production. The European battery strategy speaks, by 2028, of 25%. In any case, the study is interesting because it tells us that if the implementation objectives of the electric vehicle are met, it may not be enough with what is being projected, there may be a productive bottleneck, so, niche, there is niche, it is evident. And the bets have to be made between yesterday and today. We believe that the Basque People can't stay out of this production process. It would be the suffering of the sector. We've got a lot on our side, I've mentioned a few things. We have to develop an industrial system connected with the automomation, the corporate leaders, the knowledge and ability in electrical motion, the points of the European research. We also have some of the goods of Araban, at least. And we can't let this opportunity pass. The Basque Country collected a long time ago the position of the gigaphacris in 2016. The D.B.C.'s asked you then when Tesla was coming to Europe. It looked a little far away, but today the Tesla factory is building in Berlin, Norway. In Sweden. And with a different development level there are lots of projects on the table: In Poland, LG, Hungary Samsung, the United Kingdom, Italy, Spain State. 2016. in the year, if we had any clear idea that the building of a gigaphatory might be a strategic institution, it seems to us quite essential to us by this time. And therefore, when we reflect on the strategic projects in the European funds' context, we have stated that a factory is the first project to install a gigaphics. And because of its own properties, we have shown that this factory should be built in Aran. We know, of course, that when you were in New York, there was a Gigafatory project introduced in the South of Europe, Basque (... i.e. But we think it's important that you give us the most possible explanation of the matter today, don't you? What is it, where is the project? He said the company would be created. It's created. What's your commitment? And the one who gives priority to this project, right? Or what is the public intervention if there is no money from the next funds, the project will continue without help? Or what papers Basque plays (... ) In the Institution which is called? And what paper does the gigafatory want to play all the value of a bunch of Battories? Where are the problems? Where could they be? We think we're in time for this, but we need to squeeze in.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u73	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments and congressmen. Mr. Otero, you've made a long analysis. I won't go in there again. I agree with all the things you've been talking about in general. And it is true that at the present day the situation of automoment is somehow responsible for a future project, and at the same time it must maintain its activity. So these two transitions, these major modifications, are fully absorbed, digitalization, as you have mentioned, is autonomous, connected, etc., what challenges it will suffer. And on the other hand, of course, he has his duties on the climate change and around the neurotic transition. So he's in a complex situation, but he has options. And I think we should take advantage of options. We all look at it, of course, and it's generally, if we concentrate on climate and neurotic change, let's leave the other for another day, even though they're so tied up in it, and we've got a look at the electric car. And the electric car, on the one hand, would say that there are all the components, that it can be manufactured, but it's not that it can be produced so much, but if we have to make some kind of massive change, that is, if we have to leave all our cars behind us and pass to the electric car, what you've said may happen in production, the means that we have too little to do. And on the other hand, it's the great discussion that's at this moment about them, the price they have, and what material they need, because there are few of them, and in very special places. Por Dot, [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... eztabaida nagusia da ze prezio dankan eta zein material behar dituen, ze material horiek ere gutxi daude eta leku bear Berazietan. Therefore, I do not think it is so much that there is the technology, that there is, but in that massive substitution which components have to enter. And in that sense, I think that when we talk about electric mobility, we talk about basically three things. We talk about the electric vehicle itself, how we build it, how we manufacture it, where we get the raw materials, especially lithium and cobalt at this time, which are located in very concrete places and which, of course, are not exactly low-cost or affordable raw materials. Secondly, the charging infrastructure. And the charging infrastructure, in turn, involves three things. The charging points themselves, first of all, that the power grids are smart enough, I'm sorry, so that they can take on these important charging moments. And then, of course, the electricity grid is, above all, renewable, because if we weren't cheating on the lonely, as we've talked about on more than one occasion. And let's not forget that we have to introduce a battery recycling element, if we're talking about batteries. Why? Precisely because these raw materials are scarce and because they are very expensive. And then we'd talk about electric mobility in other areas. If we are talking about the vehicle, right now, we are going to say private particular, we have to pass to the public, we have to pass to the railway system, what is going to happen with long-distance transport. Well, these are other elements that we should work on. And we have to react, it is true, we have to maintain activity and at the same time react and look at the long term. Where are the main performances? First of all, you spoke too, incentive policy. They have been shown to be essential for such a replacement. They must certainly be attractive. For what? So that enough vehicles are produced so that we can acquire them and that, in addition, production is increased and at an affordable price, because if we were not also producing a kind of social imbalance, because only a few people could afford to acquire them. Secondly, environmental regulations certainly help us. In November 2017 the European Commission proposed a very significant tightening of CO2 emission standards and this helps to develop the electric vehicle, clearly. But, we were saying, where do we have to focus? Well, right now, in the most expensive, most complex element and, of course, that's going to be the bottleneck, as you said, which is the part of the batteries. And that means we still have to make an important effort in R & D. We have the current batteries, we have to go to the future batteries, that our generation in R & D has to be relevant for that to be a reality. And also, consider that, in addition to the batteries, we have two other elements that are going to be key, which is in the development of what is the propulsion system, the powertrain of the system, and the driving system of the vehicles, the drivetrain, where precisely our companies, our suppliers are very focused on the combustion vehicle and have to make a very important transformation. Maybe in the second round I can give you some data. We need to improve on batteries. The technology is improving as a result that all the electronic elements we use are already using batteries of these characteristics, but not at the levels and dimensions we require. So what Euskadi has to do and how he is addressing it. We have a scientific-technological system that, of course, has interesting capabilities to address this challenge. An ecosystem for which we have bet and which, of course, today we are working. How are we doing? Through technology centers and companies that are developing this gigafactory, which in our case we call Basquevolt. What current positioning do we have? Well, a current technological development positioning yes, but above all for the future, of the next generation of batteries, which are solid-state lithium batteries, which gives us all the capacity through the CIC EnergiguNE centre, recognised at European level as an expert in that technology. But still, from technological escalation, we still have a few (...) before we get to what industrialization is, and that is what we are interested in accelerating right now. Not only from the hands of the technology center, with other BRTA technology centers, for example, Cidetec, which also has a great knowledge of batteries, but also from the hands of different companies. And, let's say, under the leadership or the help and collaboration of InnoEnergy, which, located in Europe, has been the main agent that has put in place precisely the factory that you were talking about in Sweden, with a direct contact to learn from the best and know how to use the technology developed in solid state to the batteries of the future. This initiative does not arise today, it has been worked through CIC for a long time with its international contacts, and we are in a project that is still an important technological challenge, but in which we have to work. Since the beginning we have been involved as part of CIC EnergiguNE, but we have also managed to get other important players in the Basque industry involved in this project. I mean, you were asking me, what happens if Next resources don't arrive? At the moment there is firm commitment from several companies, including Iberdrola, Petronor, Enagas, MCC, Irizar, Ingeteam, Ormazabal, CIE Automotive, Solarpack, Cidetec itself, of course, the Government itself and a few companies that are still analysing whether or not they are entering the Consortium to engage also with capital, not only to use it, but with capital to develop this project. How do we find ourselves right now? We have to be aware that within what is the positioning of the battery value chain there are different links: the construction of the cell itself, the power electronics, what is the battery pack, that is, going to prepare it, with various cells a pack is made, and the battery box, which is where they are located in the car. We have capabilities in each and every link, but I would like to point out that what makes the difference, in this case, to Euskadi, to Basquevolt and to Battchain, to the important Consortium is that we have the capacity to develop cells. Not everyone has that ability. In Euskadi there is the capacity of the cells, which is the critical element. I think that's the big chance we have. Where are we? To sum up, well, working on the development of this project, so that you can go and establish the following steps. The manifestation of interest of the Next projects, which must be managed by the Government of the State, has been presented, but... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... so that the following steps can be established. The following projects, which must be managed by the Government of the State but which, of course, we are also working directly at European level, have been shown to be of interest. In contact with the State Administration, precisely, so that this project is considered to be one of the relevant ones, precisely for what I have commented to it, for the ability to build cells with that solid-state lithium technology, which is relevant and of the future, which also incorporates the theme of recycling. Moved the request to the Technological Park of Miñano, in Araba, in order to have the necessary soil to develop this activity, this project in Araba, with the necessary time horizon. And working, I insist, with Innoenergy and also with the Community of Extremadura and with Nafarroa, because we also have a great relationship with them to have a much more consolidated, stronger project with more possibilities for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u76	Okay, okay. Thank you, Mrs. Tapia, for the explanation. Well, in general, I'd say I agree with the explanations you've given me. You've given various details. I, you know, had some questions about the announcement that this organization has already become a corporation or hasn't become a corporation, so you said that the leading members are behind it. And I didn't think I'd say this, but I'd like to see you on Euskal Television, see where, right? No, really. It seems to me that there has been a very large and noisy stake around the hydroge. We've seen them, haven't we? We've seen you in over 70 other companies push the project of Hydrogen leaders, and I feel at least that the same engagement or the Chihuahua would have to be shown as much as possible, and that progress should be pointed out. So for once, and don't take this as a permanent matter, I'd like to see you on the Basque Television announcing that this project is on its way. Douda batzuk ere eman diskit, zera, (value chain?) kontuarekin, ezta? Ze hemen, of course, when we talk about the value chain, it is true above all through the CIC Energigune, and above all through its principal researcher Michel Armand, we have great potential, because it is one of the main developers of solid electrolyte batteries. So, well, then, we have to take advantage of that potential. Baina, klaro, ez da hori Bakarrik. I mean, balio kate hau bear handie da: moduluak, (battery pack?) Bera, eta gero integratione eta gero birziklapena eta abar. I mean, we don't have much time today, but it's clear that in car electrocution it has to go through a lot of things. And you've got to take advantage of that, too. And we too, and even in the funds of Europe, were saying that it is so important to form or set up a state of recovery of critical materials, that I do not know whether it is to be in the project of the gigaphatory, or as agreed, that it will be one of the future cells. If not, we'll have serious problems with the store for critical principles, won't we? And now, we know that the requital of the lithium, in Europe level, does not reach %1, and if we do not turn it over, the desegot, it will certainly be in the middle of the electric revolution. Nik beast hausnarketa father bat egin nahi nituen, eta garrantzitsua iruditzen zaït. Eta yes, alde battik, iruditzen zaidala pixka bat (...) hitzak edo orentazio ekarriz, ezta?. In his last book he talks about the emission-oriented economy, in which we have to put on issues that we involve everyone, that are led by the public; that the Administration is the one that drives, the one that leads, the one that plans and the one that also participates in a percentage. And I, of course, believe that that has to be the way, because that is also going to be the way to put conditions in terms of creation and consolidation and conditions of employment, severe decarbonisation conditions and conditions of rooting out companies, consortia, or whatever is set in motion through this new ecosystem that is intended to drive through the development of batteries. Esan nahi doubiana da honekin protagonistk izan nahi baldin badugu, ezin dugula atzerapenik izan. And in this emission-oriented economy, we have to rely on everyone. Obviously, with the technology centers, with the schools, with the leading industries that can participate, with the great actors of the automotive that I do not know how far they have gotten, and I ask you because it is important, considering that we have here Volkswagen and Mercedes in Euskal Herria, that they also get involved. And, of course, also, what I encourage or demand at once is that if we believe that the gigafactory project is strategic and is important in order to obtain part of the European funds or the momentum, you too believe it, within the ensaladilla of projects that are right now on the table, both at European and at state level, once we try to join forces. And stop no one, don't answer, ignore the proposals we have to make, because we also believe that we can be of help. And of course, we make ourselves available to collaborate with the Government to push forward this project, which we believe is strategic for the country's future, automotive, employment, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u77	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours. [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u78	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, Mr. Oster, it's true that at this moment we need different types of business in full value, we said, every cat's eye to make his report, and that's what he's thinking. And, for example, when the battery comes to be a bat, you have to control it, how it gets loaded, there's a lot of electrons in it. And that's why we also have company like that. We've tried to be as complete as possible. And we're still waiting for some, because they have to give a kind of an answer to whether they're interested or not. You said big companies too, you mentioned Mercedes, Volkswagen, even at Navarro. Of course they are, in this case, in the case of the ones, the user, and of course they are interested; and here they are as interested. But I'd tell you beyond what you were talking about about the mission. Well, it's our... Again, neither do missions show themselves, but they show that they will be tractors, and that they are, in some sense, transversal. That is to say, they examine several places, and several subjects. And it's one of those electric cars. And in this case, for example, we're looking at several themes with Mercedes, not only the ones. The Bateri is important, but, I've told you, in our case, it's important that an electric motor is also local, why not. Well, to have different materials around the battery box about communications. I don't think there's so many things and a company like Mercedes that I don't talk about Volkswagen and I don't know him too much, but I don't know him very much, but I don't know him very much. So I think it's a big complication. Baina battien inguruan ez da proyektu hau Bakarrik, it is not only this project, which is important because of the dimension it has, for technology and so on, but we have technologies that are already being produced right now, that are already being worked on. We have OEMs that are not only Mercedes, that are Irizar, that are CAF, that are also using their own batteries, especially Irizar in their own electric vehicles, in their own buses, with technology developed in Cidetec, that is also trying to look for new opportunities, new projects, that have also been presented to the Next initiative. And, of course, in each and every one of them the Basque Government is not willing to work, but has shown its interest in participating in the shareholdership and capital of these companies and of these actions. We'll see how many, what possibilities we have. There is also another company, Nuuk, which is dedicated to lighter vehicles, also electric, motorcycle type. Well, they're also working on the electric motorization of all those elements. I believe that we have possibilities, capabilities and ways of acting, but of course we have to be aware that at this time, as you said, more than 80% of the largest Basque companies, of which we are going to say, are going to be impacted at this time by this guidance system and by the propulsion system. And only two of them are currently doing an absolute diversification and transformation. The rest are still, let's say, starting to work, and I think we have to be pushers through this cluster that the transformation takes place immediately. We need, moreover, that as soon as the internal combustion engine disappears, it will still last a while, but that we are prepared to be able to manufacture both vehicles and that, of course, we will change from one system to another. And prepare ourselves also – two minutes for digitisation – so that everything that is communication vehicle-vehicle, vehicle-person, vehicle-road, allow us, of course, moreover, let us say, of the autonomous vehicle, that I understand that still by regulation will not be a reality in a short time, but yes the connected vehicle, and allow us to be prepared for it. And there, an element that you talked about at first, the software, the ability to develop new tools, to work in the cloud also on the road, the need that we will have to develop the 5G, the ability that we will have in terms of data management, the introduction of artificial intelligence systems. I think we have capabilities. We have to develop a company on those capabilities. A company that today is small, sometimes non-existent and sometimes, well, it also requires an important boost. This is an opportunity to push them forward, and I think that we also have a lot of work to do and many opportunities to do on the electrification side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "Interraciation, the mutual support of the struggle against the climate and of nature and of their biodycism." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u80	Thank you, ma'am. We had an entire meeting on April 16th, where we discussed the effect that the laws of climate change will be in the Eusterical policy. There were many things to be seen on that day, among other things, that this law has stopped the gas well in the Armentia, and that this law puts the future of SESA into a state of uncertainty. And if we listen to it, the chairman of the Tapia department gave an answer to this question on the 7th of January, perhaps a patrimonial loss of 4 million euros could also be brought to stop the project of gas wells in the Armentia. Well, the truth is decades ago, decades ago that various political forces in government are talking about climate change, but the truth is, they've done quite little about it. I believe that with the arrival of the United Nations we can finally see that the Climate Change Act has been passed. In the case of the Basque Government for 40 years, many reports, plans and strategies have been drawn up that speak of enhancing renewable energies and combating change... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... 40 years of developing many reports, plans and strategies that talk about empowering renewable energy and combating climate change. But it is rather green marketing, because, basically, in reality, it has been plans which, above all, have been to promote hydrocarbons and which, in reality, has not served much to reduce CO emissions. 2 - No, no, no, And it has been the Climate Change Act that has stopped, for example, the idea of this government to explore the gas of Armentia. And the one that has prevented others so 20 million euros will be thrown away. And so we were surprised at the statement given by the President at the performance of April 16th. On the one hand, in relation to the law of change of climate, the President seemed to be the cause of his party, as the President was the pusher of his party, wasn't he? Of this law. Hombre, the consent vote ended, but the pusher wasn't like that. And, indeed, we may safely say that against this, EAJ was a hindrance to the transferment and consent of this law. Because he introduced 40 corrections to law and most of them, mostly to gas and gas and oil companies, because they were favorable to their interests. At last he succeeded in voting for one, one of those corrections, and so he voted "yes." Thus, on the one hand, he managed to show himself alone in the picture with Vox, with Vox, who are negoriotists. And that correction went on. This amendment to the Climate Change Act, which was adopted, implies that companies, these companies that issue CO 2 up to 25% of CO emissions auction revenues will be given to them 2 so that countries with less demanding climate standards do not flee. This is what is called the fallen millions of the sky. For example, Petronor does not go to Euskadi in China, Poland is paid. Sure, what's up? That if you don't pay him the millions who fell from heaven, they're going to leave Euskadi. The root of this company is really at stake without these millions falling from the sky appearing. Another thing Lehendakari told us, he also caught our attention, and it was as follows: "Deleted the exploration of gas in Euskadi. Renewable energy installations need to be speeded up." And at the same time, I was wondering if we'd all be able to go in the same direction. The question is what that direction is. In principle, what we see are mega solar and wind plants that destroy biodiversity, our natural spaces. I don't know if this is it. I don't know if it's about giving away public money so some multinationals can get rich, like Iberdrola or Petronor. And we have done all this quite quickly and quickly, without the consensus of the parliamentary groups and without the participation, in addition, of the social actors and the people of the affected peoples. I do not know whether the Socialist Party of Euskadi is going to accompany you on this bet or not. But, of course, the important thing to know whether or not to accompany is, and this would be a question that I would ask the counselor, when will they propose an energy model that is supported by society and the scientific community, and that does not involve the destruction of the environment? When is a model that is not only beneficial to large multinationals and politicians living on revolving doors? Because what cannot be is that the energy model is formulated in exclusive business terms. Business in its time with the gas, and now new business with the reassigned energy. By the hand of the Iberian and the Business by the Hydrogian Petrronor. You've had 40 years to promote persistent energy, especially solar and wind energy. And there's not much to do in this time. And we have often heard, even in your discourses, say that he has a prodigiously ancient dependence from Euská to-day, and that it is necessary to explore for the last half a mile on his own. If the sun-panels had been placed in rooms and industrials for 40 years, if it had been placed in all the new ones, then perhaps this dependence of our energy would have been much smaller now. But in all these 40 years, there's not much to be done in this sense, and especially the oil business that's been pushed on. On the other hand, if we look at the potencia solar, the solar power, and the eolican, we have such data in the last 40 years, if we look at EVE's report. If we look at the energy of the sun, it was 31 megawatio, and if we look at the eoli, it was 153 megawatio. Now, those solar mega types of agraban are from 125 megawatio, and four of the eolithic parks which they want to do are 250 megawatio. I mean, in 40 years of solar energy 31 megawatio, and in one year 125 times more. And the energy olicic for 40 years in 153 megawatio and one year, 250, almost double. Klaro, you can say to this: And what happened these 40 years? And I think the chief physician has something to say about this. I believe that it does have to explain to Basque society what has happened over the past 40 years, which seems to be 40 years lost in Euskadi in promoting renewable energies. And, well, and better, and I hope you don't say it was because of those who say no to everything, because really if they had ever done renewable energy projects in cities, taking advantage of the solar potential of the roofs or roofs of public buildings and private buildings or industrial polygons... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ...renewable in cities, taking advantage of the solar potential of the roofs or roofs of public buildings and private buildings or industrial polygons alike would have heard the yes from many parliamentarians and many political and social forces. But, of course, what... the energy model defended so far has not been received. The no to fracking, the no to the gas wells of Armentia. And at the moment they also have saying that no to the Alavese peoples to the wind projects that are being proposed, because they destroy protected natural spaces and because they generate impacts on the way of life of these peoples. So the question, the question I'm also throwing at you is, are you going to approve... Will the government pass the roll, let's say, on this matter and approve the Territorial Sectoral Renewable Energy Plan of Iberdrola and Petronor without reaching consensus with the parliamentary groups? Or will participation forums be created so that the peoples affected by wind mega-plants can be taken into account? And we know what has happened in 40 years and it is not right for us to spend so many more with bad policies and bad energy management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u82	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Gorrotxategi, I will start at the end, because making value judgments without considering real aspects because it is often complicated too. And to talk about bad energy policies when, thanks to the energy policy of this country, gas has reached every corner of the country and, of course, our industry, which is intensive in energy needs, has replaced a much more polluting energy, such as that of coal, with gas, because of course it seems to me that it is, at least, unrighteous and, of course, realistic zero. Well, looking at how we're going to work to achieve the sustainable development balance that we aspire to. For, of course, based on three principles: one, to give continuity to policies that for a long time voluntarily in the field of the environment carry out Euskadi – then I will give you some data. It is not propaganda or marketing–, adapting and updating the mechanisms, tools, legal instruments necessary to be able to carry out this work throughout this twelfth legislature and, as it cannot be otherwise, meeting absolutely and rigorously all the legal and environmental requirements to carry out these initiatives. We can't do it any other way. Of course, we must ensure that economic activity does not put any natural environment in doubt or risk, that it does not run counter to any environmental report, but we never do, and that we certainly need different actions for the industrial revival of Euskadi. And in addressing this new energy policy and combating climate change in Euskadi, it must be made with a criterion of responsibility, in balance, not of the interests of a few or many, but of the balance between the whole of society, the people we live in, and the whole of each and every one of us who acts there. Which way has Euskadi gone? Well, it's a long way to go, of course. Nineteen years ago, in 2002, climate change was incorporated as one of the priorities of the situation within the Government's environmental strategy. 13 years ago, the Climate Change Plan set a specific target of reducing emissions by 14% in 1990. Six years ago, we approved the 2050 Climate Change Strategy. Two years ago the Territorial Planning Guidelines, which incorporated the climate perspective and organized all management tools, where the 2030 Energy Strategy was also located. We've been working with climate ambition for years. What results have been achieved? With regard to 2019... Oh, excuse me. With 2019 data. Emissions of 18.6 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent are reflected, which is a decrease from that of the year... And, I'm sorry, a year of 2% since 2005. And, of course, if we compare it between 2019 and 2005, we get a 27% reduction. In 2005, 25.5 million GHGs were issued. 18.6 million in 2019. We contribute 0.5 of the EU-wide CO2 emissions. Our evolution in the ecological footprint has also been reduced by 7% since 2001. We've been working on circular economy for years. Since 2000, the Basque economy has grown by 26 %, while consumption of materials has decreased by 25 % and the volume of urban waste has decreased by 56 %. Data. Euskadi is recognized as one of the most active regions in the European Union in action against climate change. The Climate Group, which is one of the most relevant international networks where public and private actors exist, places us in the 18th position of the world's regions in its 2020 report. We still have a lot to walk to be on the first one. That's right. We're not going to be complacent. But there's a way out. There is a clear political commitment. And of course, with the lehendakari at its head, in 2019, in July 2019, the climate emergency was declared. We have set ourselves a set of objectives, of course, for the legislature, ten objectives. And some of which, of course, is related to reducing greenhouse emissions, is 30% reduction, and we are going to review them upwards as a result of what has recently been approved in the European Union. Moreover, the share of renewable energy accounts for 20% of final energy consumption. And this goal we will not achieve only with the installation of, forgive me, solar panels in polysports, in public buildings or in each and every one of our homes. We need more renewable energy and, of course, with a technology not 40 years ago or with local technology, uy, with current technology, forgiveness. We need big projects and small projects, of self-consumption and of community consumption, of everything. But, of course, neither our industry nor our society has enough with the installation of small solar panels. Let's be realistic. And I'm going to something you've been referring to... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... Of course, neither our industry nor our society have enough with small solar panels installed. Let's be realistic. And I am going to something that you have referred to, to the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act, because there is one element that has been forgotten to you and I think it is very relevant, and that we have of course worked a lot with Minister Teresa Rivera to get all the autonomous communities to be aware of the challenge we have to face. And of course, if we are talking about greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, it appears that we have to reduce at least 23% from what we broadcast in the 1990s, but we also have to generate 74% of electricity with renewables. Today is 2021, by 2030 I think we have a little long way to go, with many performances to carry out, and of course, I insist, with solar panels only on our roofs this goal is impossible. The minister herself urges all autonomous communities to also implement important projects to achieve this goal, and we also talk about energy efficiency by at least 40%. But if we go to 2050, we have to reach 100% renewable energy in the electricity system. Mr. Otero laughs, because he knows perfectly well that, well, he's going to tend to be... I'm going to say it as very difficult, I'm not going to make it impossible, but very difficult indeed. We must therefore take this issue seriously, seriously with an environmental framework programme, with a programme of bio-economy, circular economy and bio-economy, so that our forests serve us on the one hand to be CO2 sinks, and on the other hand to use cellulose, wood, wood-based cellulose to replace all these plastic materials from hydrocarbons, I think it is a crucial element. To have an Environmental Administration Act, which is already registered in this House and which we have to take forward; to have a Natural Heritage Act that allows us to guarantee all those spaces that you care so much about, but we care no less about, with the drafting of the Energy Transition and Climate Change Act also underway, and that of course, we cause a transition that is environmentally and socially just. That's what we have to target ourselves. And of course, from the point of view of environmental controls, with all the guarantees, I insist, and with all the controls, of course, when it is going to be established, whether a wind farm, or a photovoltaic park, we require, as you well know, of all the environmental impact reports, of integrated environmental authorizations, of authorizations and of all the municipal licenses necessary to analyze whether urbanically and within the PTS, forgiveness, of the entire spatial planning plan, can be assumed. And in the case of wind, we have an existing PTS and we are working on a new PTS with all the guarantees that human activity and the care of the environment and the care of the natural spaces are compatible. And I repeat something I said a few weeks ago about this subject. When Europe itself defines, for example, the Natura 2000 network and all the relevant ECAs and ECAs, what it speaks about is that we have to make economic activity and human activity compatible with the preservation of biodiversity and the care of the environment and the care of these natural spaces. And we have to make it compatible, that's the goal of protecting an area, of caring for an area: making it compatible in every aspect. And of course, the development of these wind farms, these larger photovoltaic parks, will be done in this way, without forgetting the objective of energy efficiency and without forgetting that small community projects and the use, of course, of solar panels or small biomass or other renewable energy installations will be essential to also develop our Energy Sustainability Act adopted in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u84	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea, berriz ére. He tells me about the difficulty in achieving the goals in these years. Of course, that's why I was telling you, it's because where we've been for the past 40 years, that's the point. And of course, he was talking about gas reaching all homes. If the Basque Government's gas bet is known, but what about the rest of the renewable energies, which we now need? We've been wasting time all these years. And as regards the reduction of emissions in recent times, for I do not know, it would also have to be seen to what extent it has to do with energy policy or simply with which many industries that turned out to be polluting have closed down. We were talking about... I was talking about other types of wind plants just as substitutes for, it's not just small solar panels in the neighbors' houses. And well, and precisely in relation to this wind project, we have presented allegations to wind farms in the mountains of Iturrieta, Arkamo and Labraza, and above all, because the impact they produce is serious in the... of the protected natural spaces and also in the quality of life of the peoples, but also, also, and again I will talk about the Climate Change Law, because in the article of this law contains some restrictions that could also paralyze these projects. We said it in his day with the topic of the gas of Armentia, and can now happen with these projects. The law of climate stopped the well of Artementia, and, as I have already observed, it may be possible that the project of the olic parks of Araba may be stopped. Why do I say this? For the environment in this law is a stake for projects which do not damage environment and bioanity, and it makes a plan to support the environment, and forbids the sols of the eolious projects which might be injurious in these areas. And the mountains of the fountains and Archamu, for instance, are within the shelter zone. So, this food... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... he makes them. And the mountains of the fountains and Archamu, for instance, are within the shelter zone. So if that zoo keeps going, they won't be able to do it. The law also requires that – as could be the case in the future PTS for renewable energy – citizen participation is guaranteed. And it's something that so far, the truth is that it shines because of its absence. It is something they are also claiming associations like, for example, Arabako Mendiak Aske, it would be something to take into account. On the other hand, the Hydrogen Corridor also continues to lead Petronor, which seems to be whether or not they will be subsidized with European funds and, if not, with Basque funds, that is to say, they will be 220 million funds, be they European or Basque, dedicated to this project. The question is, are these companies in no condition whatsoever? Is a project that does not reduce global CO2 emissions going to be covered by public money? Of course, this is a very good business for Petronor, but I don't know if it's so good for the fight against climate change. This project was already considered economically profitable when Josu Jon Imaz joined the Saudi Aramco oil company in 2020. And, of course, if it comes out for free, with funds either European or Basque, the business is going to be great. But it must be borne in mind that Petronor will use green hydrogen not to produce energy, but to mix it with the CO2 captured in the chimneys and to produce synthetic fuel. When capturing these emissions, it would not emit just CO2, but when that synthetic fuel was burned in cars or airplanes, then it would emit CO2, i.e. it is a way to outsource emissions, which means reducing global zero emissions. This is 200 million public funds – the millions falling from the sky referred to earlier – a benefit for the sale of synthetic fuels, the saving of market costs, CO2 emissions rights, around 49 euros per tonne, because they would not emit CO2 by capturing it and, in addition, these emissions rights could be sold by also getting millions with it, that is, it is a big ball for Petronor, but I do not know if it is so good for climate change. It's like you're trying to sell a very urgent business model. If you want to build another permanent, degenerate, degeneration model, we'll be ready to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u86	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. The first time you tried to provoke her, the second time, I won't go in. When you mention the public funds, you'll know, you're in the government, and you'll decide what the rules are. So, I hope you're so fond of talking about the things you like about Madrid, bring them here and tell us how they split up. That will be for hydrogen or any other project. And of course you asked me what we should do. The law, as always, the law which has been admitted to the environment, and any other law. But I'm going to tell you again, in any project, any project, that might be contagious, be biodybertity or anything else, why do we do the reports? To know what the effects are, and whether they be avoided. So, when the projects are started, whether it's possible or not to check when they're asked, we don't start running a photovoltic project or an eolic without reports. Why do we do environmental impact studies? Precisely, to know whether they are activities that can be established or not. In the event of any damage that may in any way be reversed, reversed, and, if irrecoverable, not proceed with the project. So, I'm not discovering anything. We do it the way we have to do it, just like that. The new Sectoral Territorial Renewable Energy Plan. At the moment it has already begun with the processing and I have to assure you, more or less it will be two years of processing, the ones we foresee. But the progress and the initial study are already developed and are already underway in the process of citizen participation, which we are already starting, next week, we are already starting, today is Friday. By the end of the summer, we hope that the first phase will be completed and that we will be in the second phase of citizen participation, which will culminate in the interpretation and response to each and every one of the allegations presented. What is the participation scheme? First, last week has already begun, the entire project to attract citizen participation has been put into the Irekia platform. And secondly, in the next few days, starting next week, we are working with three groups of people, three Focus Group, one for each historical territory, in which we will try to bring together the visions of different agents, departments and entities of the Basque Government and of outlaws and municipalities, associations of all characteristics, business and trade union organizations, companies of the Basque energy sector, universities and the whole field of scientific research and innovation, different clusters, professional colleges and experts. All of these are going to be in the Focus Group that's going to start working from next week. But Euskadi's new energy policy aims to have a broader vision, a cross-cutting approach, so that the challenges and objectives are taken up in the overall planning that we achieve. In addition, we have tools that are going to be included within each of the plans that we have to develop and that are being developed: the PCTI, already developed, the Industrial and Internationalization Plan, practically finalized and that will be presented in this House I hope before summer: the circular economy and bioeconomy plan 2020, forgiveness, 2030... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... before summer: the circular economy plan and bioecomomie 2020, sorry, 2030. There was the 2020 one, we added the bioeconomy plan. The 2030 Waste Plan, the Digital Transformation Strategy or the Rural Development Act itself. All the actions we are going to take will have incorporated the vision of climate change and the vision of energy. How are we going to do it? Respectfully and responsibly. Of course, in line with the European Green Deal, trying to foster a sustainable economy, a just economy, where everything related to the fight against climate change and digital transformation and the energy transition is an opportunity to generate employment and wealth while achieving the above objectives. It's our bet. It is our bet to work together and with all the agents who are willing to do so. The Deal goes through a deal, it's a deal. Well, in Euskadi we want to have that agreement, but, of course, with the objectives that are set by the European Union itself, trying to reconcile all interests: economic, environmental and social. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Interregation, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, a popularle of Euscalia-Ciudadans, a member of the United States, made to make sure that the funds of the Reformation will arrive at Brussels." Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, Mr Azpiazu, Mr Pedro María. I am asking you today, Mr Azpiazu, about the way in which everything that is being managed is the planning process for European funds, and also a very important issue that is going to be the form of implementation or the consequences that the implementation of European funds can have, and our role also as an autonomous community and also in defending our autonomous and outsourced competences that, in my opinion, can be affected by this whole process of necessary reforms that will be mandatory to access these funds. The issue of European funds has been discussed in this Parliament, we had a full monograph, indeed, but, as has been usual throughout this process, which has been a process I think almost, I don't know how to say, almost of the Marx brothers' cabin. I'm sorry if I cut the language a little bit, but I think in this you will agree with me that this has been a little... and not because of you, not because of you, not because of your team, much less. In this, moreover, I am here another Friday to sympathize, even empathize with the position you have in this whole process. I say that this has been a bit of an absolute disorder in one thing that is very serious, because the issue of European funds is going to involve, or should involve, the reconstruction of the economy in Spain, in Euskadi, in Europe, but above all this is going to be or will condition the future of the generations that we now live here, but also of the future of the generations. That is why the way in which all this has been managed seems to me to be a little out of purpose. It is that this has looked like a spectacle, perhaps in line with what the President of the Government likes, who has come to present the plan, without specifying it too much, seven or eight times. But, come on, this seemed like a little show to me. I am going to make two types of considerations: some concerning what has been the management of the process itself – where I also think there has been a little, for its part, that could have been done better – and finally, the situation in which we are in and how we will be affected by the necessary – I insist – reform process, and how we will be affected by the reforms that will be mandatory if we want to have access to this funding. As for the first, what this whole process has been, let's say, of whether I don't know if I'm negotiating or... planning would be the technical term. First of all, look at the real gap between the two plans: the National Plan, Spain Can finally, and the Euskadi Next. I insist, this is not your direct responsibility, because, of course, what has happened here is that, of course, the Basque Government had only part of the information when it made its planning. The Spain Pode Plan consists of ten politicians, which are 30 components, and then 110 investments. Of course, the 110 investments were not known at the time the Basque Government made the planning. It is true that they could have been updated, but, of course, already, man, I do not know if you had even promised some investments, I understand that politically it was already complicated for you. And the Euskadi Next Plan obviously has its components, and so on, many times different from those defined by Spain Pode, from which the various proposals hang. Secondly, there is a lack of detail in the measures, there is a lack of detail in the measures. Without going too far, because we would consume all the time of this inquiry, but man, the main problem here is that the initiatives of the Euskadi Next programme, of ours, remain somewhat superficial. They have a kind of generality. I think that in some respects they are too general. I understand why they might have done it. I understand that this is not a beginner's mistake, but I understand that they have been able to make them general so that they can then make adjustments. But I warn you one thing, the experience I have of managing with European funds, that is to say, the European Commission, the European agencies, these kinds of generalities are what end up invalidating the processes and preventing new subsidies from arriving. With this, the arrangements that are often made internally at national level – budgetary adjustments, etc. – and often gaps and discrepancies that may exist between forecasts and what actual expenditure is, this is very much controlled by the European Union. This is one thing we must bear in mind. Thirdly, there is, in our view, a lack, and I believe that the opposition, in general terms too, can, I believe, maintain this view, I believe, or has always lacked, debate on the definition of projects. It's missing. Of the 187 initiatives, you can correct me if I am wrong, which are included in the Euskadi Next programme, because they have not been discussed in this Parliament. We had a full monograph, that's right. But we had a full to establish or not even establish a procedure that could actually serve competitive purposes, in which different options, different projects, could compete. The excuse, or the argument, well, was that we had to look for quick projects, tractors, etc. Sure, but that can be arbitrated in a contest with light and stenographers. Well, that wasn't done. The Spanish government is now doing with you the same thing that you did here with the opposition, which is going to your ball... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... Well, that wasn't done. The Spanish Government is now doing with you the same thing that you did here with the opposition, which is going to your ball. I mean, well, the Spanish government right now, so listen, I'm preparing my project, I'm sending it to Brussels... Today, by the way, how timely, is being sent or seems to be being sent that book that is being carried by the President of the Government, which nobody has seen open, where it seems that there are the reforms in which Spain is committed. And we haven't seen anything of that either. The lack of debate, the definition of projects, I think it is something very objectionable in general; this is not just from your department. But man, I think... And this, if you were on the other side, because in fact you were at the time, would also censure you. Another argument. There is a lack, in our program too, in the Euskadi Next program, there is a lack of prioritization of projects. What happens if you don't get the amounts? What's going to happen? Man, of course, I understand that they will say: "Well, we will try to compensate for the projects that we create most important with own funds, etc." Yeah, but how? In what way? How do we decide? Is the government going to decide that again? Are we going to make an expert commission? I insist, in this whole process of what is the management of European funds, what is essential when it comes to European public money is the issue of ensuring genuine transparency and competitiveness among all possible options. But of course, if they say to me, "No, they will compete among the projects that already there." But man, you've already operated a market shutdown, because there are already some projects that you've decided beforehand. But well, in addition to all this, there are mismatches in the initiatives that have been presented many times; as a component, but this also has to do, I understand, of course, with that total uncoordination that has occurred. I insist, I don't attach it directly to you. There is one part that does, but, of course, this depended on the fact that if the government did not give them all the information from the beginning and this has evolved, then they also wanted to run to present to this Parliament a project quickly, because that is what has happened and in these things, I insist again, the European Union does not allow compromises, does it? And from this we will either have or suffer the consequences, in the end, everyone. Maybe it's not you or me here anymore, but the generations that come will suffer. And then, as a result of all this, Mr Azpiazu, of these earlier – let's call it – errors, asymmetries, uncoordinated planning, there are two important issues. This leads to two problems, which I also believe are two almost permanent problems in what is generally the policy of managing public resources. Firstly, there are forgotten sectors. There are forgotten sectors. If we had perhaps had an in-depth debate on the type of projects, we would have had a commission that with light and stenographers would have set priorities when awarding the projects, for man, perhaps another cock would have sung. There is some question that is forgotten, the aeronautical sector directly, perhaps indirectly from some project that yes, but directly it is true that for example the aeronautical sector. Or, for example, there are initiatives that we also have in reserve, right?, in the lace saved and that, suddenly, now that there seems to be money, it gets out, right? As in the case of the port of Mutriku, you will know well, won't you? It is carried since 2018, budgeting the amount, has not been executed. Sure, then there are remnants. If we don't do it, it doesn't do it, and now it's going to do it with European funds, isn't it? They have, by the way, planned to issue grants until 2024. I understand that they are own funds, because if they are European funds we will have a problem, because this has to be closed – as you well know – in 2023. In any case, this is the – let's say – censorable part of the planning side, which I understand here will coincide with me, at least in some respects. In others, I would love to see how it justifies me. And then, perhaps more legal aspects... More than legal, what has to do with the substance of this planning, and is that the governance of the plan, the fact is that governance leaves much to be desired throughout its entire process. And then, the second point: on the legal or institutional aspects. Look, here's a question that seems to have to do with the issue of pensions, the labour market, the public service, green taxation... I don't know if you've read the torch. We have analysed it carefully, and here it is deleting the issue of the hydrocarbon bonus; that is, that chanting diesel is going to be again. That's here, huh? That's here, on the central government's agenda. Which means, I don't know where this is going to lead us. That's why, because I'm worried about autonomic skills, because all this is going to affect autonomic and extraneous skills, today, Mr. Azpiazu... Of course, all these reforms must also be implemented in the field of our own competences; that is why I am asking you today, Mr Azpiazu. What are your purposes in this regard? Or, simply, looking into our eyes, have you been asked by the central government?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u89	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u90	Mr. President of the Parliament, chief of the Department, members of the legislature. Mr Gordillo, as you all know, this week Spain has sent its National Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan to Brussels. We have read in the media that Minister Nadia Calviño has included 70 billion loans, in addition to 70 billion grants, which has four cross-cutting pillars: green, digital, social and territorial cohesion and gender equality, and that investments and reforms will be implemented over the next three years. We have also heard that the implementation of the plan will allow two percentage points of average GDP growth to be added in the years 2021 and 2022. In my opinion, a rain of figures which has not yet reached the ground, which has not yet gathered. And I say this to you with absolute sincerity, but this is not the first time that I have shown our deep concern about the formula that is being chosen by the Spanish Government for the design of this plan, and I think that you share it, and that all governments must be involved, which is what is happening in a state of autonomy. And because, besides, the debt we have to pay, we will pay it among all and among all. I also share with you that there is no news that this important reform plan has been agreed with the Autonomous Communities, because it has indeed not been agreed. It is more like a management order model that, as you will understand, we cannot share, and less in our own competencies. You know that we have forwarded to the Spanish Government our complaint on the form of participation in the design of the plan, which, in passing, does not include specific projects but areas of action and budget headings; I will go further on this issue. As I say, it's a plan... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... In passing, it does not include specific projects but rather areas of action and budget headings; I will go further on this issue. As I say, it's a plan that, necessarily, has to land yet. We are also concerned about the obsession with rapid recovery and the missed opportunity to truly transform our economy. That is to say, we are concerned that the view of the Spanish Government is set at 23, and not, for example, at 2030 Germany and France, Portugal and Italy contemplate in their implementation plans, which allow the European Union, i.e. 2026. And this is not a ballad issue. The obligation to implement the 70 billion grants proposed by the Spanish State in 2023 puts at serious risk the effectiveness of the MRR funds and also the receipt of them, as Europe conditions their delivery to compliance, as you say, with milestones and objectives that, with the deadlines that are managed, will be very difficult, if not impossible, to achieve. And we will be harmed by this in the years to come. So that you can get an idea of the real risk this approach poses, I'll tell you that Euskadi is the most efficient autonomous community in state spending. The Ministry of Finance has just published the 2020 data. And in Euskadi we have implemented 98.9% of the budget, the General Administration and autonomous bodies. The State average is 94.64. The second community would be Catalonia, with 96.81. This applies to the regular budget. Imagine. Why is it so fast if many tractor projects can be carried out behind the scenes? You also ask me in your question about the measures that the Basque Government will implement to access these funds, and I understand that to channel them. You see, the governance formula is perfectly identified and reflected in the Euskadi Budgets Act for 2021. Moreover, in order to organize our governance mechanisms and thus meet the challenge of managing the Funds of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, this Government has set up a Vice-Council of European Economy and Funds, with a Directorate of European Funds to be responsible for the programming, monitoring and evaluation of the ERDF, REACT and MRR funds. We believe that there is a great need for synergies in the use and management of all funds from Europe, as the European Union itself is promoting to optimise their use. In addition, we have created an interdepartmental committee, in which all persons from the various departments of this Government have a voice, who are working bilaterally and participating in sectoral conferences with the Spanish Government. The Budgets Act also provides that the Government shall appear every three months to report on any progress that may be made, when there are, of course. I am already telling you that I will ask you to appear again, Mr Gordillo, by the end of May, so that all of you can be well informed of the steps that have been taken and the fruits of an intense work that we are doing. Therefore, well-planned and well-structured governance. It cannot be otherwise in the face of a challenge of this caliber. As I was saying, I would like to delve into some issues, because I believe that all parties here should work together to achieve a good outcome of this ambitious process. Despite the absence of requests for information and consultations from the autonomous communities, by the State, within the framework of the elaboration of the Spain May Plan, thus contravening what the European Regulation itself of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism establishes, this government, exercising its responsibility, and I would say that without anyone being asked, prepared in December the first version of the Euskadi Next Programme. An exercise of responsibility, as I say to you, but many of the public policies related to recovery, transformation and resilience are the competence, as you know, of the Basque Government. Secondly, regarding Spain's Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, it is not necessary to know that it does not carry any projects... I'm sorry, it's necessary to know that you're obviously not carrying any projects. What this plan contains are investment lines and reforms that shape 30 components that contain the ten policies (...) that you have cited. It includes budget items for each component, which must then be landed, concretely planned and implemented within the deadlines committed to Europe, by the way. With regard to the governance mechanisms established by the Government of Spain, they have not been sufficiently established. Much has been said about multilevel co-governance or governance, but it seems that, for the moment, it has been reduced to the scope of the implementation of a plan, in which, I insist, the autonomous communities have not been consulted. Of the amounts distributed in different windows, through the ministries, only through the sectoral conferences we are discovering, as a result of gouts, the lines of investment and transfers that, if necessary, corresponded to the Basque Country. Investment lines for which design has not taken into account the uneven level of development of public policies, and when considered, it has only served to penalise Euskadi in the distribution for its best relative position. A decision that undermines the possibility of using the country's strengths as levers for recovery, transformation and resilience. Indeed, the distribution of resources between ministries and the subsequent distribution that they are making to the autonomous communities has focused on mitigating weaknesses, rather than strengthening the strengths. The approach of Euskadi Next, which you are well aware of, reflects that our eight components are perfectly aligned with the national plan, as the Spanish Government itself has expressed publicly on more than one occasion, putting the Euskadi Next programme as an example of good practice. In our program you can see how integration has been sought, with our components defined in terms of homogeneous challenges that need to be addressed from the holistic perspectives. In Euskadi Next there is no project that cannot fit into at least one PRTR component Spain Puede. In fact, in order for an idea to be made, there is nothing more to see how the expressions of interest launched from the different ministries have worked, to realize that the fragmentation to which the structure of the Plan Spain has been subjected may have caused the same project to have been submitted to several MDIs or that a project had to be split to present parts of it to different expressions of interest. In short, Mr Gordillo, this has only begun. It's going to be a bottom-up race, and there's a lot of information to get to know. We bet on a use of the funds poured into the transformation that will bring about the recovery. And, for that, of course, we are willing to work with all of you intensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u91	Thank you... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... We bet on a use of the funds poured into the transformation that will bring about the recovery. And, for that, of course, we are willing to work with all of you intensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u92	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. And thank you very much, Mr Azpiazu, for your answers and for recognizing the evidence, which is the situation we are in. What you have said is very serious, that is, you have heard from the press, you have said it, you have heard from the press that the Spanish Government has sent the letter or document with the reform without having agreed, secondly, with the Autonomous Communities, without having opened a procedure, at least, for internal communication. And, above all, with all this hyperobsessiveness for doing it all very quickly, in two, three years, hoping for a quick fundraiser. And then the justification, kicked forward, will touch another government. Well, this is very serious, Mr. Azpiazu. Very serious for two types of reasons. First of all, I would ask you, on our level, in our area, on the average of possibilities, since we do not repeat the mistakes that are being repeated at national level. And that is why I welcome the appearance that you have announced in the committee that it is up to me to preside and I also welcome you coming here to explain. We will also continue to ask you about this issue because we consider it to be capital. But in that inter-institutional committee that you have established, I ask you not to repeat the mistakes that the central government repeats, include real experts, real experts, please. And it would be very useful if it included, at least, to be informed directly, because they are technical issues, also people who could designate the parliamentary groups that make up this House. That would help a lot throughout the transparency process, because it is true that it is a very technical issue, but, man, I believe that parliamentary groups have the capacity to designate, at least, people who are there to follow up on what, I insist, is the opportunity we have for a truly lasting and sensible reconstruction for the next generations. On the other hand, Mr Azpiazu, you have a special relationship with the central government and with the President. He's the president you've put in, Mr. Azpiazu. So, I think there's a lot of room for manoeuvre there to hold them accountable. What is happening in Spain is that it does not happen in any European country. That is to say, Italy, because there is also a consensus with the regions, and a programme is actually made taking into account all the actors, and even the private sector through the private public partners, public-private collaboration, and a serious plan is presented saying, moreover, that painful reforms are going to have to be made. Reforms that can be painful initially, but that will ensure long-term well-being. And that is what is not being done in Spain, and that is why I ask you not to repeat those mistakes in the area we are dealing with, the autonomous area. We will be vigilant, and for that you will have our cooperation, as I have been telling you since the beginning of the legislature. Look, on the subject of the reforms that are necessary, because they are going to be necessary to access these European funds, you know it well, man, this touches full competence that are autonomous, let me develop it very briefly. It is that this affects autonomous competences when we refer to labour policies, because these investments, instead of being directed directly or only to paying brick or to covering some other budget absence, what needs to be done is to invest in people, we need to invest in people, in training. That is what will ensure in the long term the progress and well-being of all. We're going to have to reform the public service. We are now in this Basque Parliament analysing and managing, we are going, in the process of passing three laws, the third has not yet entered, but it will be three laws on the administration, on the Basque public sector. Man, I say an incidence there must be. Commitments have been sent, it is said, there will be commitments and reforms in the area of fiscal policy. In addition, green and such fiscal policy is put in place, which, I insist, is that of diesel. And, of course, here this is going to directly affect our powers as an autonomous community and the outside powers in the field of hydrocarbons, (...) to make some shade, but, well. In the case of taxation, account must also be taken of outlaws. Also the topic of university education, research, all these are commitments that the national government has made on its own, made on its own and at risk without taking into account the autonomous communities. That is why we are going to be vigilant, but I also ask you, Mr Azpiazu, to be vigilant in your meetings with your counterpart in the ministries, because this situation, really, cannot be sustained. I reiterate to you our extended hand and our desire to really collaborate, but sincere collaboration, so that this whole process will really turn into the well-being of all of us and of our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u94	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u95	Mr Gordillo, I share with you that there are many issues to be discussed and worked on. We are on time, I think we are on it constantly and constructively. The Basque Government will present the second version of Euskadi Next in May, and we hope that all these issues will be changed, at least in large part. We have been defining with the actors and institutions involved for months, and we have even been able to analyse in detail the contributions made by the opposition groups. Mr Gordillo, I would like to convey to you some of the issues that are key to meeting this enormous challenge and which are set out in the Regulation of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism adopted by Brussels. Firstly, a properly functioning European internal market is essential to achieve fair, inclusive and sustainable growth and to contribute to job creation. This proposal was sent by the lehendakari to the President of the Government, Mr Sánchez, about a year ago. Secondly, the mechanism should support projects that respect the principle of additionality of the European Union. The funds should not be for regular expenses. Thirdly, regional and local authorities must be involved and properly consulted at all stages of the process, from the plan itself to its implementation, monitoring and control. And from our point of view, in order to establish the necessary transformation in the strengths with which the state economy counts, the planned actions must take advantage of the intelligent specialization strategies – endorsed, moreover, by Europe – within the framework of regional policy, showing, paradoxically, a greater sensitivity for it than it has had so far... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... In addition, the European Union supports regional policy, and paradoxically shows a greater sensitivity to it than the Spanish State has so far had. As you know, Euskadi has the RIS3 strategy, which specializes in personalized health, cleaner energy and smart industry. Of course, these are areas that would allow us to compete globally. And I link with this issue to advance all of you that the second version of Euskadi Next, which we will present in mid-May, includes a figure that we are going to propose to the Government of Spain so that the Autonomous Communities do not have to cut strategic multi-sectoral and multi-annual projects. The regional tractor areas, a kind of regional LOSS, if that figure of the LOSS succeeds beyond the vagueness that we know to date. This figure seeks to take advantage of the strengths of the autonomous communities as a lever on which to sustain and promote transformation. Since the European Commission's 2014-2000 Multiannual Financial Framework, the Autonomous Communities have intelligent specialisation strategies which the Commission itself has launched in the area of cohesion policy and the use of the Structural Funds. Euskadi quickly adopted this strategy led mainly through the PCTI 2020, and recently renewed by the PCTI 2030. There is also the circumstance that this strategy of intelligent specialization RIS3 by Euskadi is fully aligned with the dual transformation that is intended to foster with the funds MRR, the energy-ecological and the digital. This figure reinforces complementarity and coherence in the use of the various European funds. Mr Gordillo, I hope you will share with me that the great challenge is to be able to bet on transformation, as it will guide recovery with a greater multiplier effect, and what is more important, with a look at the future and not just at immediacy. I invite you to put everything on your side in this great unwanted adventure that has touched us to live, because it is our responsibility, we owe it to this generation and to future generations. The Euskadi Next 2021-2026 program was a milestone in the design of a collective response to the challenge of facing the post-covid era since the conviction that the return to pre-normality is neither desirable nor feasible nor feasible; ensuring a green, digital and inclusive Euskadi with the cross-cutting key to equality in all policies. We will also focus on verifying how European funds reach women in the importance of assessing and monitoring the gender impact in each of the projects where this money is invested. He has no doubt that it is a personal commitment of this Government and of the parties that support him. I once again encourage you and all the groups in the House to join this enormous challenge ahead, because we believe that failure is not an option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u96	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The 15th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, "about the state of Donostia-Honda-Hincibi's airport." Mr. Gil is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Councilman, in view of the difficult situation at San Sebastián airport, I am obliged to ask you again about this strategic infrastructure for Gipuzkoa and for the whole of Euskadi. In October of last year you answered me a written question on this same subject, that all you were doing for this airport was appointing the representatives of the department in Ortzibia, this ghost society, a perfect model of chiringuito through which you are openly financing the Chamber of Commerce of Gipuzkoa without any result being seen. On 25 March of the same year, among others, you signed a PNL in Congress, we also signed it in the Congress of Deputies, which voted or what it said was that you were committed to promoting in collaboration with AENA the operation of the airport, its connectivity and the recovery of air traffic. In the same initiative, you committed yourselves to continuing the investments needed to improve the services and security of operations. But as you know, the airport is in a limit situation. Currently it has only one plane, a flight from Iberia to Madrid at noon, which also throws losses to Iberia because it is in a completely inadequate schedule and prices, and voices are heard even announcing the cut-off of that flight for some days of the week. The situation, therefore, is somewhat limited, and to the point that in a strange interpretation of the anti-vidian regulations, the airport director, who already knows that he belongs to Aena, has decided, for example, that all its facilities remain permanently closed to passengers up to an hour before flights, forcing passengers to stay waiting on the street without bathrooms, cafeterias or services of any kind. San Sebastián Airport needs a lot of things, but above all it needs good management and investment, and what it doesn't need is for statements to be made in Madrid to seem like something is done and then you keep playing the game, let it die to move the whole business to Bilbao or Biarritz. I therefore ask you today, Mr. Counsellor, what action your Government has taken with Aena to address the necessary investments at San Sebastián Airport since the beginning of the legislature.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u98	Thank you, Mr. Gil. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Gil, you are well aware that this government does not have jurisdiction over the management of the Hondarribi airport, but participates with the Gipuzkoa Parliament, the Chamber of Commerce and the municipalities of Donostia-San Sebastián and Hondarribi in the Ortzibia Society for the development and economic promotion functions of this airport. It is within this framework that the usual contact with Aena is established and that the necessary investments at the airport are regularly monitored and implemented. In recent months, and taking into account the pandemic situation in which we find ourselves, the meetings have been held in a telematic and telephone way, both with ENAIRE, the public entity managing air navigation in Spain, and with Aena, with whom weekly contacts have been maintained.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u100	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ...aircraft in Spain as with AENA, with whom weekly contacts have been maintained.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u101	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u102	...president. Well, the truth is that if what you're doing to promote Fuenterabia Airport is through Ortzibia, as you can imagine, I'm even more worried. Finally, as an example of the current situation I will give you only some data. Air Nostrum's base of operations, at this airport, is, as you know, in the process of dismantling, and I know it's going to tell me again that it's not up to you, but it's an indicator of how the airport is. And, man, worrying about the airport, in general, it should be your responsibility. And if it is being dismantled that base is because there are no flights and all its personnel are in the process of being transferred to other airports. But I'm going to give you another even more bloody data. On 31 March of the same year, just a month ago, your advisor has granted the Foronda Airport Promoter a subsidy for the juicy figure of 3 million euros, which we are sure is necessary and that it is certainly convenient, but why not invest a similar figure in an airport like that of Hondarribia, which needs it so much or more and which could save it perfectly? That's right, before we would have to completely restructure from top to bottom Ortzibia so that it would actually start working or look for another way for that money to really be used to recover the activity of the Hondarribia airport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u103	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u104	Well, Mr Gil, as you said, from Ortzibia we maintain a constant relationship with the airlines and with the competent authorities in the execution of the investments. But this exercise 2021, AENA and ENAIRE plan to undertake two actions at the airport: the expansion of the aircraft turn platform and the implementation of the PBN approach system. The first is a work whose purpose is to meet the new safety standards on the track. It has suffered a certain delay, as a result of the suspension during the state of alarm or of the administrative procedures necessary to be able to execute it, and at the moment AENA has informed us that it is waiting to receive the pronouncement from Costas. For its part, the PBN automatic satellite approach system, developed by air, is a technology that facilitates landing and take-off manoeuvres under adverse weather conditions, which, among other issues, will help reduce the number of diversions to other nearby airports, making airport infrastructure more attractive for the entry of new operators. ENAIRE has already carried out all the design and evaluation processes. And due to the proximity of this airport to France, it is carrying out the necessary coordination of the project with the French air navigation service provider. The air forecast is that this system will come into operation before the end of the year. Both actions will lead to an improvement of the airport's safety and operationality in the short term. On the other hand, and although Hondarribia continues to suffer, as you know, and like the rest of the airports, the consequences of the pandemic and its effects on mobility, we continue to work to recover flights and capture new routes. Consequently, and somewhat in contradiction with its approach in the exhibition, a little apocalyptic, from June onwards the frequencies of flights to Madrid will be increased, from 14 weekly flights to 20. And there is a forecast that flights to Barcelona, which resume this Sunday, with 14 weekly flights, will increase these frequencies from July to 28 weekly flights. In addition, it is already known, it is published today in the Diario Vasco that this summer the airport will offer two new routes with flights to Palma de Mallorca and Menorca between the end of June and October. And we will continue to work to achieve new national and foreign destinations. Although all these forecasts are obviously linked to mobility restrictions and their evolution. And we remain open as a department, to possibilities that can be posed by the rest of the partners of Ortzibia, as in his case it was raised by the partners of Via in order to be able to implement other promotional actions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u105	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 16th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, Muriel Larre Laso, the members of the popular-Ciudad groups of Euskals, the planetion of the Earth, Hox, and the head of the carriers about AHT." Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u106	Hello, good morning. Look, I'm going to do, nothing, a little summary of what can become of the TAV in Euskadi or what it has been facing for six years around and 12 years almost arrives. I would like to know, Mr Arriola, what opinion does the arrival of TAV in the Basque Country deserve from you?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Larrea, I recognize that you make such an open wording to your question and such an open presentation that I find it rather difficult to interpret what you are really asking me. But what I can tell you is that the arrival of the High Speed Train to Euskadi is a project that is being carried out in its different stages, many of them completed, others quite advanced, and others certainly with more delay than we would like. But what no one can deny is the commitment of the Basque Government and the department I run with the Basque Y. And so, even though it is a state-owned infrastructure, this Government is carrying out, through a management order, a large part of the works, in particular, practically all of the Gipuzcoan branch. And we also aim to execute part of the accesses to Bilbao and Vitoria Gasteiz when the development of the works makes it possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u109	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u110	Look, I don't question your department's intention at any time or... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] Mr. Arriola. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u111	Look, I don't doubt at any time the intention of your department or of yourself. But, look, do you know what's going on? That the governments, that is, even being the competence of the government of the nation, being not the competence of this government, here we must fight, okay, for the arrival of the VAD. And of course, in all the governments supported by the PNV, by the Socialist Party, with each other, with each other, because it has given me the feeling that they are looking for grapes, because the priority has not been to come to the TAV here to the Basque Country. In fact, I believe that the Socialist Party's agreements with the Basque Nationalist Party are beneficial to the Basque Nationalist Party, but not to the Basques. And, really, look, it's that I read the press, I see the statements you make in the press when you tell us that the TAV no longer reaches the year 2027 or, well, you don't know, that the projects have been done with your heart. With the heart, with the technique and we will have to put the will, which is what has been lacking. Look, I'll remind you that in 2016 the Minister of Íñigo de la Serna Development came here, he went to Bilbao. He was received as a king, in the hall of the Arab Hall. And he had a project, a schedule, and a few dates for bidding on the constructive project. So, of course, I have my doubts as to whether in these agreements between governments, some governments with others, we have lost the Basques. Because, look, the arrival of high speed is not just a desire of a few, but it would bring many benefits to Basque society. Economic benefits and benefits, even, in the way we can live the Basques, where we can work, because we would have much closer or much more possibilities, we would open up a range of possibilities. So, I'd like to know what the future we really want for Euskadi is. And what we are asking for is a timetable that is precise for when the project will be auctioned, for when the information study process will be completed, for when the works will be auctioned. We need someone, an entrepreneur from this government, to go to Madrid and negotiate those terms. And negotiate those terms for why. Because at one point we will have to take the colors out of the government of the nation to say: "you have not met your goals and we want you to meet those goals that Basques need so much." And, really, we need to know when high-speed will reach Bilbao, when it will reach Vitoria, when it will reach San Sebastian. And all this is for the benefit of all Basques. I don't doubt your department's due diligence. I question the political will that exists to reach agreements with the central Government. And look, as important is the heart, the technique as the will. And I want to mention another subject too. And it's just recently... We cannot have the citizens of Vitoria in view of the fact that today there is a subterranean situation, that tomorrow there is no subterranean situation. We have to be sure. Basque citizens have to be certain. What do governments want, what do the rulers want for them? And that is why it is so important for you, counselor, not just a technical opinion, but an opinion to know what the real will is to negotiate where to negotiate the arrival of the TAV in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u113	Mrs Larrea, you know that this is a work of extraordinary complexity. It does, however, read the partisan situation, because it is clear that its fundamental objective is to criticize the Socialist Government of Spain and, by the way, also the Basque Government. By the way, you speak in the presentation of your question of unfortunate statements. I imagine from this counselor. Don't forget Ana Pastor, Minister of Development of the People's Party, that in 2015, being that year's lowest investment in Basque Y, announced that at this rate of investment the TAV would be finished in Euskadi in 2019. Well, come on. Or the minister of the Serna, who in November of the 16th committed himself to give a decisive impulse to the project, also coinciding with one of the exercises with the least investment in Basque Y by the Government of Spain. And in 2017 the investment not only did not increase, but decreased. I have always said that to carry out works of this magnitude it takes decision, political will, investor effort and time. And there is nothing more graphic than observing the volume of investments over time to see who has had the political will to drive this project and who has not. In the last four years of the socialist government presided over by José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, that is, between 2008 and 2011, the Spanish government invested in this infrastructure more than 769 million euros. On the contrary, in the last four years of the Popular Party and Rajoy at the front, between 2015 and 2018, investment in Basque Y barely exceeded 266 million euros. From 2019 the investment returns to an upward trend. What these data tell us is that in order to advance the investment necessary to undertake the works and the solutions in Basque the best, the greatest guarantee, is that there is still a government in Spain presided over by the Socialist Party. "Why do you look at the straw in your brother's eye and don't you see yours... the beam in yours? How can you tell your brother 'Brother let me take the straw out of your eye' you who don't see the beam you have in yours? Hypocrite, first take the beam out of your eye and then you will see clearly to take the straw out of your brother's eye." Luke 6, 41-42.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u114	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Fifteenth point in the theme list: "The question is, "Unai Fernandez de Betoño Saenz de Lacuesta EH Collectoral of the United States of the Country Planets, Housing and Transport Leaders, "About the management of Euscal Y." Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u115	Yeah. Good morning, everyone. Chief Arriola... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u116	Yes, good morning, everyone. Chief Arriola, you've recently acknowledged that the date of the ending of the high-speed train was badly calculated, and even more, you said it was calculated with the heart. You also said that at the end of 2026, it could be the beginning of 2027, except for Gastei and Bilbo. In front of this disaster, in front of this delay, do you think he's doing a good job on this project?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u117	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Fernandez de Betoño, what I believe and have said, on many occasions already, is that the management of the work is being very complex. And that, together with other constraints, which I have already explained on several occasions, has made it impossible for them to be correct within the deadlines that have been given over the years. And it is a fact, as I have already explained in the reply I have just given to Mrs Larrea, that there have been periods of time when there has been an important boost to this infrastructure by the Government of Spain. I urge that, incidentally, it coincided with the socialist presidencies, there is nothing more to see than the graph I have taught before, and others in which the impulse of execution has been much more limited.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u119	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u120	Yeah. The head of the Arriola department, in order to be well managed by a project, apart from technically being well, might require that the deadlines should be well calculated, that the budget should be calculated, and that, of course, if this project is public, it is managed in a transparent manner. In this case it is neither the first nor the second nor the third. As for the deadlines, there's been a party. You've been giving different dates in a 17 year's December. (... ) He said it would be finished for 2010. Lopez de Gereñu said it would be finished for 2013. You yourself, in 2010, when he was chief, you said he'd be finished for 2016. After that, the Arangcha Tapia said it would be finished for 2023. And now you said it would be over 2026-2027, except for Bilbo and Gastine tickets. What does that mean? Don't tell me that you're going to invade the line between the sea and Donostia in 2027? Is that good management, Chief Arriola? About the budget. We only know the budget for the part you're managing. You say you've spent 1,900 million euros, or already invested them, and in that interval, in part of the gym, you carry them over 225 million euros. Overworked 225 million Euros. Is that good management, Chief Arriola? And as far as transparency is concerned, you do not give us the data of Araba and Buzka. Yes, you don't run them directly, but well, you're here now, and you could at least make it easier for you to make things easier for me. You've been calling this project from the start "Euskal Y." And euskal Y is only part of an AHT project in the EAE. You always deny or you don't give us, as far as transparency is concerned, the photograph of the whole project. You leave the south-road of Bilbo, you leave the connection between Jungle and Miranda, on one side between the corridor of the Basque Y and Navarre. By the way, we've been working for 15 years, and we still don't know where these two projects will be connected. And you're leaving them, and now you're leaving the tickets to the capital. Is this the good management, Chief Arriola? We've never taken a picture of the entire project. How much is the whole project, Arriola? You don't even know. $6,000 euros? 10,000 million euros? 15,000 billion euros? We don't know. You will tell us that we do not pay, that the whole of Spain pays. And yes, it is true, but we are also part of the Spanish State, unfortunately. And besides, all the money that goes on a high-speed train is from the coupe that doesn't go to the subsidies Spain makes EAE, for example Renfe's regular railway. And when this is understood, we understand why Renfe's usual railway is failing, among other things, in the Aian region. We do not, therefore, yet know what connexion this project will have outside EAE, and we believe that this project is only permanent, permanent, persistent, perene. It seems that everything must be overrated by this project and by the managers of this project.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u121	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u122	Mr Fernandez de Betoño, in my first appearance in this legislature, I said, among other things, that I was going to meet with the Government of Spain to analyse the situation of the high-speed train and to be able to set realistic deadlines for implementation, taking into account the state of the proceedings pending and the budgets available at the current economic juncture. And that's what I've done. In mid-March, I moved the horizon that the Government of Spain manages for the completion of the work of the Basque Greek Y, which apart from the urban integrations in Bilbao and Vitoria, is located at the end of 2026 or early 2027. And I said it publicly last Friday. I also said that in the development of VAD there have been many vicissitudes, including the attack by ETA. And this, which is nothing more than the realization of a reality, has sparked a debate these days that has led even some of you to analyze the sad role ETA played in the development of the work. It is true that, of course, not all difficulties can be attributed to ETA, of course, but neither can gravity be reduced to what happened. For years, terrorists threatened and extorted people and companies related to the high-speed train, sabotaged the works, and most seriously, murdered the businessman Inaxio Uria. This is a fact, as is the fact that, despite the threats, during the government... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... And most seriously, they murdered businessman Inaxio Uria. This is a fact, as is also the fact that, despite the threats, during the government of the lehendakari Patxi López, we were able to launch the first management commission of the Gipuzcoan branch as a whole, bidding and awarding all its sections. And it's true, I too have heart and I said in 2011 that the works of the railway platform in the Gipuzcoan branch could be completed by the end of 2016. But neither do you think I was so wrong, because, today, and as far as the management of the Basque Government is concerned, all the sections of the management order, in the first management order, have been completed for years, with the exception of phase 2 of Hernani to Astigarraga, still in execution, since the contract of the work had to be terminated in 2017, due to the change of the functional scheme of the section established by Adif. On the other hand, the works of the stations of Ezkio and Atotxa included in the second commission, will be (...) in this legislature. Our intention is that during this parliamentary term we can give a boost, above all, to the solution of the accesses and integrations of the TAV in the cities of VitoriaGasteiz and Bilbao, whose informative studies are in the phase of environmental processing. This is a long and complex phase for the Spanish Government, but there is no doubt that, from the Basque Government, we will intervene when the development of the work makes it possible, because this is an essential infrastructure for Euskadi, in order to connect more quickly and sustainably with the rest of Spain and with Europe. And even if it weighs you, it will turn out to be a reality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u123	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question of San Viceente River Iriart, members of the EH Collectors, made to the head physician of the Medical Department, about the interlocution of the public hospital which the Tolsa Department wants to build." Mr. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u124	Yes, head of the legislature. Thank you. The chief physician of health, in Tolsa, gives uneasiness to the elements of future health, and, in fact, seeing the silent, obscure information management of the papers between the medical department and the City of Toulouse. We ask you thus: What's it like when you make a public hospital that's going to be built in Tolöhn?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u125	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u126	Good morning and thank you. You've already asked us if the center of the high resolution that RedMork will build in the Tolsea is a new public hospital called by Mayor of Toulouse. To make public management of the integrated sanitary sanitary organization of the Tolsala when public. The concert with the IBISA company, not to mention the hospital concert in Asuncion, without an immediate alternative to the public attention, in your proposals. Defining the plan for the Intended Stitarian Stitarian Institute in Tolos. And now it's what the public hospital will be doing when it's in progress. We have an order from this parliament. With all the resources required, to prepare the announced functional plan as soon as possible, so that it may be determined that health services, resources, and public infrastructure are best suited to the improvement of the health of all the people in Toulouse. In order to do this functional plan, we must consider the needs to be observed in the region by the sanitaries, populations, and organizations. This is the order and this is what we're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mr. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u128	Ms. apple, chief physician, I hope you'll have a chance to specify more on second words. The latest news, at least in our part, was received by a letter from all the remarks we had from the General Council of Toulouse, in which the Medical Department gave his opinion on the location of the New Estrumentian Centre, and gave him a preference. Before that, it was called Hospital Público, which PSE and EAJ accepted like here. This infrastructure was originally called the Center of Great Resolution in the Government. In the last letter, the existence center. Today, you're the center of the Great Resolution. We don't know, we don't know what you're doing, because you don't give us any information. In a monologue you're alone, talking only to your lectures, in the comfort camp, with your friends. But this isn't a cod. This isn't a cod. The motion of the mayors, the 25 townships which form the region, the movement of the Twenty-nine townships has been granted to you, and it has been granted to you. He's offering you to walk in concert. And you will say that Andoain and Toulouse are not there, but I'd like to remind you that Andoin EH was the voter for the town or party, and that he asked the mayor to join in this movement. And so does Toulouse. He's got as many councilmen as EAJ, and he's asked the mayor to join him. This is the reality of the Tolsea, a manifold reality. And from this variety you cannot escape. Membership has shown the boundaries of the pandemae in the 20th. XXI. It is an institution of the century. in a dependent society. First of all, the authorities, the doctors, the nurses have been at their throats. Even the hospital situation has been similar. And the movement of the mayor of Toulouse has extended your hand to you. He held out his hand to you. in order to improve the health of the century, and a system which will have the common health on the axis, which will strengthen and rearrange the first attention. A public hospital bill that will work with a bag and position. And he proposed this because it's an opportunity in Toulouse. It's been years since many of the agents, professionals, townships, and individuals have worked for public health. The network is done. And this movement of the mayor has offered the resurrection of this network to the Medical Department. What for? To work for everybody's health, to work at Osar and the Medical Department in the 21st. to put it in control, from the point of view of Toulouse. To win all of us... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... What for? To work for everybody's health. Part 21 of Membership and Health. to put him in control. Starting from the Tolsea. Because we're all gonna win, all of us: You, us and the people. Take heed to yourselves, and let us draw him out of the common comforts, and conclude that we have many to build, but we shall build him among them all. We'll build the world there among all of you, and no one in your dark pockets knows anything about you and no one knows what you're doing. Please get out of this comfort zone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u129	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u130	Thank you. As I said before, we are determined to continue to improve the health of all the people in Toulouse, because health service, resources, and public infrastructure are the most suitable. We've already seen the best soil. Now, we are determined what kind of infrastructure is to be. When we discussed this again, as I said, we understand the demand that all the representatives of the mayors and countries and quadrants should be installed in their own villages or in the neighbourhood as well as in the best possible health resources. But the production of new infrastructure, or the construction of it, must answer the organization and attention of the country, and the Department must consider all these criteria, and determine them according to necessity and means. As I have said, in understanding the legitimate intentions and opinions of the Mayors of Tolsa, I think it is important to express that investments and privileges should be determined according to the planning of health. And they are chiefly the speakers of this end, who, knowing the country and the needs of their health, can now and then determine the services which are necessary in the future. One of the values of membership in this pandemy is the ability to work on the network. The ability to guide users to the most suitable resources at each moment, regardless of whether they are members of a health organization or other. We're doing the design of future health violations in Tolsa with this perspective. They're evacuating professional technicians because in every grade they've had their health care in this area for years and the means of resource they've been paying attention to. From this point of view, the population, according to the wants of their development and health, is preparing to anticipate the means of answering them. And as it is natural that the new infrastructure should be placed in Toulouse, there has been a great interlocution with the town, and will be in the council, not in the synagogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The nineteenth subject on the subject list: "Interlation of Mine, of the Cottaja of the Council of Ibaña, a member of the Union of equality, of justice, and of the head physician of the Society, concerning the process of reflection which has been set forth in regard to the model of residence for old men." Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u132	Thank you, Mrs. President. Congressmen, chief of Artola generouss, a long time ago, good days to all. The cost of our care and protection, Covida, has exposed the cost of our system to its most inexpensive state, and made it indisputable by its want. If anything has left us this pandemic are totally political experiences. And I have said this many times here, it is political the experiences of people who have been on the front line of care, the workers of the residences who remained overwhelmed and lived in their flesh the lack of protective material, the lack of hands or the anguish of relatives without contact with their loved ones. Also those of those who were locked up in these residences, of those who lived their last days alone, alone, without anyone holding hands with them, or those who had their family members there, or those who lost their mistress, their act, without being able to say goodbye, without knowing whether they understood why they could not accompany them in their last days. I remember the testimony of a family member of one of the people living in a Bizkaia residence, who was feeling horrified, horrified, knowing that an outbreak was taking place in the residence where his family member was and that there was no reinforcement to attend to what was happening there. It isn't many days since we had a chance to hear what happened in the Pandemonium at the Donstrostian Academy. And in this context, we have also heard of the facts that are obscene. For instance, the residents were collected from August at the Donostian Domus residence... And I could go on because it's a long list of painful events. I dare say that the preparations of services necessary to ensure our rights and worthy lives have been observed in the turpitudes of the prices of market criteria. In front of that, I've heard you say that the model worked. I've heard you say that to defend it, too, that the prosecution has not opened any research for bad practice, but the Penal Code does not measure what happened, Chief Artola wideband. A worthy people cannot allow such a thing. This weekend, my friend Felix Arrieta wrote a very interesting article in which he said that this year has laid the foundations of our knowledge and that it seems pertinent to ask whether this framework of play is still valid. We have often extended a proposition for a share in this whole affair in this parliament. We've always heard that the model worked, that it wasn't the moment, that it wasn't the moment for reflection, that we were trying to change the pattern for reflection... It's a long list of them, and I'm sure she'll remember, too, that Madame Isabel Gonzále, who's been willing to try to open those proceedings. But surprise, surprise. Last week, you announced that the process of reflection on an old Euskating firm was being opened. To tell you the truth, it was the first reaction to say: "Hombre, it was time, wasn't it? Finally! "I don't know. Or that's what you like so much to say, don't you? : "Welcome chief of the Artola generouss. Por fin, por fin se titene que endendir ante la realidad, señora Artolalle." But I'm not going to play it that way because it's too important for us. I will tell you, Mrs Artolazabal, that when I read your statements – and I did so very carefully – I became ojiplatic. Because, in truth, open a process of participatory reflection around a... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... That when I read your statements, and I did it very carefully, I became ojiplatic. Because, truth, opening a process of participatory reflection around a topic with the idea, as they pointed out, of being able to move towards a more individualized and humanistic system to tell us in the next sentence that the process will serve to revise or not the current model, has its own. He's, at least, curious. Prozesuare ailburua da erdua nola hobetu, bainsa hausnarketa gdarni izan behar du erdua birpentsatzeko edo ez. Nik, sentitzen dut, bathed ez dut ulertzen. And I cannot understand that a process of reflection is initiated from there, but it is very significant. It gives me, Mrs Artolazabal, that you know that there is no other remedy, that you have to do something, that chooses the process to do that you do, but that you really don't want to change anything. Eta kezkagarria da. Kezkagarria da ze, eseterako, Legebiltzar honen gehiengoak egoitza-zentroak arautzen dituen dekretuaren errebisioa onartu zuelako, zuk hori egiteko konpromisoa hartu zenuelako eta, orrain, beast behin, atzeratzen dellako; edo auskalo, ikusita zein den zure abiaputuan, agian aldatuso ez dellako egingo. Eta dekretu hau klabea da egotza horietako baldintza funtzional eta materialak erregulatzen dituelako, and because it is a key decree to make effective what you propose to move towards a more individualized and humanistic model. And it is troubling that in the process of reflection they place the pattern on the same level as the improvement and supportibility of it. It's for you, chief, worthy and high-quality services, not to guarantee a business. To find the best answers to our public responsibility for the citizen will come later on how we finance it. You said in the presentation that we must be able to see the future we want, the needs and desires of the people, within the limits of existing resources and contextal laws; the planet leaves little for modification. Our model of care, Mrs Artolazabal, is a scarce model that in recent years has significantly reduced public response to care needs. More and more citizens have to seek life when care needs arise. And you also bet strongly on the economic provision linked to the service, which is no other way than to encourage the privatization of social services. I know you're short, Mrs. Artolazabal, but here you do business with care, and that's not acceptable. "Y no es custión de sotenividad, es cuestion derechos." Perhaps, perhaps, it is not just the case, but it is likely that the process will listen to all the operating agents, because there are no unions in the group where the process will be the engine, but the company managers of these sites. Eta, ildo horretan, kezkatzen gaitu adinekoen profilaren inguruan egiten direen adierazpenek, asertiboagoak direla ore, komunikatiboagoak, beren beharretan predakuntza handiagoa dutela eta kontsumitzaile zorrotzaren trebetasunak dituztela. Of course, they know they have rights, they are increasingly demanding and they are no longer worth everything. There are things that don't hang and that aren't acceptable. It is not a question of demand, Mrs Artolazabal, it is a question of rights; and it is up to you, as a social policy adviser, to guarantee them. And in that sense we also miss families in that group of experts, because in that change of profile there are more and more dependent people who can't say what they want. Zaintza duinak nahi dituzte. Nola zainduak izan nahi duten erabakitzeko skubidea izada, horretarako skubidea eta aukera izada. Eta hori dagokizu zuri bermatzea. And you're not telling us about rethinking the pattern, but you said in your presentation that the theoretical scope of the housing pattern is the exercise of the integral attention that rests on the person, right? , to improve life's quality, to dignity. But in the presentation, you also gave the key, that's theory. In theory, because reality is very different, and we've been shown by ranges. Y lo reconocía la enferera referno que le acompaño en la presentción, señal que el model de sideerncias un en enfique paternasta, en un que la toma decis unjejje an une une une une une une une une que la toma decientias au peopleu une au au au au au abju que prima el parenta el caf café todas. The paper supports everything, but the reality, Mrs Artolazabal, is very clumsy. But, nothing, whether the model will change or not. We'll see about that. And that gives us a great worry, because you're also the head of equality, and if the model of our care is something, it's sexist. And you don't reflect on any consideration of the preventive system in this process. Eta onartu behar said, hen, kezka hori pixka bat areagotu Egyptian of ikusten dugunean, ba sure asko, ebidentziaren aurrean, beast Zenbait erakundek eragartzen dituztela bere zaintzen ereduraren inguruko hausnarketak, tartean Gipuzkoako Foru Aldundia. And that, for example, Mrs Mendia also presents ZainLab, a project to help generate a professional labour market in the area of care for the elderly, another comprehensive participatory process, which will allow us to have pilot experiences of a preventive, personalized, community-based model, which will also allow us to act comprehensively among social services, health care, housing policies. And he says he does it based on collaboration and coordination, but to me he gives me that there you have walked a little bit each one on his side. When it is essential, when this reflection on our model of care is more necessary, I see that there is no one behind the wheel or that everyone is walking like a chicken without a head. And therefore, Mrs. Artola generous, I should like to know how this process of reflection will be completed, how it will be answered by those difficulties which I have set before you here, and how you will combine from the Government in a different and parallel process round this subject.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u134	Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's, for your interaction. The pandemic has placed our society in a world and in a context in which... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u135	Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's, for your interaction. The pandemic has placed our society in a world and in a context in which, due to an unprecedented situation, unknown and unpredictable and difficult to control, we have been forced to launch new forms of work. You've reported it perfectly. Necessarily collaborative forms of work, also dynamic of coordinated work with which we had already carried it out, but which have been reinforced at this time of crisis. To provide a coordinated response, increasing the intensity of mechanisms and tools of collaboration with which we already have structurally in this country such as the OIS?, the Civil Dialogue Bureau, the Social Dialogue Bureau, and, therefore, we have been working in a coordinated way since both emergency and emergency. We have the necessary spaces to coordinate in short, medium and long term. These Mechanisms have been essential during the crisis we live in. Those months in which challenge, work, and worry share have been given us the opportunity to face the influence of the weakest collective pandemia. This dedicated work has led us to identify the necessity of a profound reflection. What was and what was and what was and what was, and a stop to evaluate and appreciate and appreciate what was happening, a pause to reflect upon the wants of the people, and the prospect of a better future to be able to see in the sphere of laws and context. That's one of the commitments to the government program. It's a commitment to this legislature, too, by the initiative they're talking about in this Chamber. For us, it's a key commitment. We approach it in a broader framework in which we are working, a social care framework, and in that broad framework we advocate a model of care of our own, which is not the same as yours; we advocate a model of democratisation of care that includes the so-called 4 errs, recognize, reduce, redistribute care and represent the needs of those who are excluded. This Basque model must also preserve the contribution to the care of the four sectors of society, families and communities, the organizations of initiative and social intervention, our companies and also the public sector, therefore 4 erres and 4 such. These are basic elements in the construction of a framework of work in the field of social care. Basic elements from interdepartmental and inter-agency coordination. And this approach starts from the realization that we are people who care for people, but we also constitute societies and institutions responsible for organizing care, responsible for deploying a system of social, health and educational care for the common good. Care systems designed to ensure spaces for protection, safety and care throughout life, apart from their situation, contribution or status. The social context we face demands that we reorganize care socially, that we make it visible, that we value it and that we also share it. And this is a task that must be shared by men and women, by public institutions, by families or by the community, and this task must also be shared by businesses and the third social sector. All this from theoretical and practical approaches that will be reflected in the social care policy that we will shortly present. This policy seeks to strengthen the institutional care of people throughout their lives, in particular the younger and older ones. And in what way? By significantly and progressively reducing the proportion of family care to institutional care; by promoting public responsibility services and functions, including support for families and caregivers; and by strengthening primary and secondary care in the community. On the other hand, and as you rightly point out, Mrs Kortajarena, other government departments are also looking and working on the issue of care, and we are coordinated. Thus, the Department of Employment and Labour has presented ZainLab, a project for the construction of an employment and entrepreneurship strategy for such community care. ZainLab would be an opportunity to employ many people who do not find work or who have lost it in other sectors. These are initiatives that are also the result of collaborative work and socio-laboral coordination, cooperation already developed in previous legislatures between Employment, Lanbide, Social Policy and Education. All these measures complement each other, as they are based on a common objective. We will try to give greater social and wage recognition to this group, which is mostly made up of women, many of whom are migrants; recognition through specific training and skills to develop their work with greater guarantees. The Department of Social Services of the Government has carried out more than 10,000 permits for those working in the care of persons with units, as well as in professional categories of carers and geriatrics. These elements are part of a reflection we have begun, the attention of old men to consider a pattern, and even of a watch pattern, in order to develop a proper and complete old age. We've already activated a process of participation which enables us to turn our present model of life, and the attention of our age. We are doing a reflection, through Agenda Nagussi, as a model of social public participation and, after that reflection, after the results of that reflection, we will modify if necessary, if necessary, the model and decree that we have put in place, which is born of the Basque Governance Strategy with the elderly and which, moreover, responds to the parliamentary mandate adopted in this House. And we will also share it with the Basque Civil Dialogue Bureau, with the networks and associations of older people linked to it. This route also represents a set of opportunities for those who age in Euskadi and who can take part and share the definition of the problems that affect them. We seek to enable them to collaborate with the Administration in the search for solutions with the widest possible basis. This participatory process is a starting point for the reflection and possible reorientation of the current Decree of Residential Centres for Older Persons. Draft decree that, in any case, as always, we will work on it in the OIS with the outlaws and Eudel. Through the participatory process of Agenda Nagussi, we intend to collect the knowledge, opinion, experience of a number of important people related to the residences, including the perspective of the target user person... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... the knowledge, opinion, experience of a number of important persons related to residences, including the perspective of user, addressee, also from a professional point of view, including women professionals working in these fields, whether formal or informal, in family, social, business and political environments. Specific forums will be developed with citizens, in general, users of care and care services and their families. And we will also organize meetings with public institutions, professionals in the sector, professional colleges, trade unions and political parties, associations of older people, and entities in the third social sector. Therefore, Mrs Kortajarena, anyone who has something to say in this area and on this issue will be consulted so that he can give his opinion. In addition, we have launched panels with experts in the academic field related to ageing and quality of life, and experts also in the field of ethics. As you can see, a wide range of views will allow you to reflect on whether our model is valid, what can be improved, what challenges and opportunities it offers, or what other models are possible. The conclusions of this process will allow us to act, therefore, both in reference to the Residence Decree and to the care and concept of residence, and care in general towards the elderly. This whole process of reflection will take place during the year 2021, in which we have also worked and will work at the Social Dialogue Bureau, since it is expressly addressing content related to equality, Mrs Kortajarena, on the one hand, and also to care policy, on the other. Since the commitment to improve everything in our hands, I believe it is also necessary to highlight the improvements that Decree 126/2019 brought with its approval. Advances that involved ensuring that users were provided with the necessary care and personal assistance. That was the priority of that decree, ensuring that users maintain their relationships and participation in the community environment, and promoting their sense of security. It must be remembered that we came, in the past, from a more paternalistic vision. That's true. And this decree was an important and consensual step forward. This decree led to a move towards a more community-based model of residential care that focused on the person and his or her abilities. And this decree, which is currently in force, has been very useful during the difficult months of this pandemic. It also defined an individualized care plan, where the participation of the individual and his or her family was essential. And this current decree also complies with the quality criteria set out in the European framework for volunteering and the quality of social services. In conclusion, as I have already pointed out in previous appearances, this is a context of progressive ageing and in which we must continue to work.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u137	Thank you, Mrs. President. And thank you, chief of the Artola generouss. Well, you insist a lot that the decree is in force and the bonanzas that brought that decree. If that is so and if it has been of such importance in the management of this pandemic, which I doubt, because most of the elements that were established, linked to the material and functional conditions contained in the decree, were not applicable, because it contemplated a period of deficiency, that is so, and if not, the decree is read, I do not know how they have been able to determine this situation. Clearly, the situation of the covid would strain any care system. But, as Ander Rodríguez has often repeated to us, who is not here, the question is that ours has not endured the first assault, Mrs Artolazabal. And, in the face of that situation, I am still surprised that a process of reflection of the characteristics that you have put us here, coordinated already, I have my doubts, because I have a friend who is an expert in these things, who says that when one does not know very well what to say, he says two things, one that coordinates and, another, that incorporates the elements as in a transversal way. It generates me, it generates me many doubts that you still do not get off the rail and recognize that the model has failed, and that the deficiencies are more than obvious. And you said it in the presentation. In theory, the model has an orientation. And another thing is practice, and another thing is practice, because the gerontologist who accompanied him did not speak of the model being paternalistic before the decree. The model is paternalistic, and we must avoid "the coffee for all". That's what she said in the presentation. En todo caso, I don't know what it's worse than to be on the steering wheel or in a direction where the guard doesn't approve of worth taking care of the steering wheel or in a direction that makes a business, or in the direction of a pattern that leads women's back and full prevarication (... .). It is your duty to guard and protect our members in their quality parameters, to give them dignity and the parameters of happiness. And in this department of equality, it is also to guarantee the dignity of those who guard us, and to end with this privilege. The situation has reaffirmed, this pandemic has reaffirmed what feminist researcher and activist Laura Gómez pointed out a long time ago. And it is that we have a Basque model of care, which solves care in a scarce, sexist and mercantile way, and which outsources care responsibilities, as you have, by the way, done in this pandemic, abdicating from the functions that corresponded to you, for example, in the inspection. The consequences have been suffered in recent months in the most brutal way, Mrs Artolazabal, the violation of the rights of people in need of care and their families. I do not believe that there has been, in history, any greater violation of the right to social services, as has been the case in this pandemic. Situations such as the inability to freely choose care, care that offers less and less quality, less dignity and, above all, less happiness and vital tranquility. And the precarious conditions of the... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ... that offer less and less quality, less dignity and, above all, less happiness and vital tranquility. And the precarious conditions of women care workers, not women, who do a job that is truly essential. Is that orazer? Is that orazer, ez? Bada, guk, hard clay. We've got it pretty clear. It plays to stop and repair, and to place care at the centre of the political debate. And despite who weighs, this is unreplaceable. It's up to you to resignify the care. It is urgent to rethink how we want to be cared for, how we want to take care of, and especially how and under what conditions we want them to take care of us. You put careworks in value, accept them, and it's up to us to pay for them. And to honor care, guard and protection systems with feminism, is irresistible to ensure those worthy and universal care which will produce happiness and dignity in the construction of a public system. This ought to be the chief end of all this, and nothing else. And in that, all the collective intelligence of this country (... You must, not you, bring only those who agree with your model, that vaccine table. They're all different patterns, preventive ones. We don't share a lot of things you put up here. But the field of social services has always been a space of contact between the different ones, and that's the question...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Your time is up. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u139	As you have finished your intervention, there are things we share and others we don't. And in those we share, I would like us to be able to move forward. When you always say that the decree is not in force, and period of cadence, the period of cadence was only about what the infrastructures were. It had nothing to do with the rest of the issues that appeared in that decree which, by the way, was adopted by the Governing Council on 30 July and published in the Bulletin on 9 September. And the lehendakari has said it today in this rostrum, that Euskadi is the autonomous community that has had the lowest number of deaths per 100,000 inhabitants. As a very important number, I think that is also a fact that needs to be taken into account. Therefore, it is true that it is necessary to review, and that is where we are. And it is true that if necessary, after the conclusions of that review, we will change what needs to be changed in the decree and what we need to change. And let me bring you some data, too, won't I? According to the Social Needs Survey of the year 18, 9.5% of the population of Euskadi represented or had some limitation linked to a health problem or to their advanced age. And to complete this vision, it was estimated that between 60,000 and 82,000 people, family members, were caregivers. We are working to ensure that ageing people can do so as they would like, and with the aim of ensuring these conditions, so that older people who so desire and are in a position to do so can continue to reside at home, because that is also a very important part of care. Because the number of people who go to residences is small in relation to the elderly who live and live in this country. All this is linked to those who want to take care of and continue to take care of their family members in a situation of dependency, disability, chronic illness, and who can also take care of them, right? In the event that persons, for one reason or another, move to live in a residential resource, they must also have the conditions to ensure that their life in such residential resources is full, with good social, health, family and leisure care. This whole approach of attention to ageing policies, together with reproductive care needs, places us in a framework of analysis and reflection that frames our social care policy. And how are we going to reconcile all this? For with clear objectives, Mrs Kortajarena, as I have arranged for them, common to all, based on respect for competences, coordination, interdepartmental and interinstitutional collaboration. Our care policy is and wants to be a social care policy. A comprehensive policy for the care of children, adolescents and older persons. A policy that integrates the gender perspective, of origin, with the principles of equity and diversity. A cross-cutting and interconnected policy with other actors, with other departments. And a social investment policy, and connected to the demographic challenge. I would like to add that, in this collaborative framework aimed at promoting policies for the transition to a new model of care, based on the democratization of care, we have worked on a socio-health strategy to support caring families. Dignifying and socially recognizing care and redistributing it, reducing the proportion of family care and caring women, are two key axes of this strategy. Strengthen institutional care and promote the involvement of men in care tasks, transforming the social allocation of roles according to gender. And this is fundamental to advancing equality between men and women. And I would like to end by influencing the model of care that we want to develop, which is based on the four "R" and four "S" that I have been pointing out to you. We also want people who want to work or care for their loved ones to be able to do so, and they are personal choices that we have to respect; they are also very valuable elements that we cannot lose as a society. Promoting, yes, free family care, chosen by those who care and who are cared for, critical, co-responsible and conciliable. And I would like to conclude by recalling that social services of public responsibility are provided, not only from a model of direct public management, but from public-social or public-private collaboration, A private contribution, diverse, which includes many residences managed by cooperatives, social entities, social enterprises and other enterprises. The decree of residential centers is applicable to all centers, and you, as you well know, it is necessary to have it...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u140	Thank you... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ... the decree of residential centers is applicable to all centers, and you, as you well know, it is necessary to have it...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The twentieth point in the theme list: "Interpelation, made by Isabel González Rodríguz, together by Podemos-Nodemus, a member of the Anicults of the Society, made of equality, justice, and society, as well as of domestic rights." Mrs. González is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u142	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea eta eguerdi on salilburuak eta legebiltzarkideok. There are figures and issues that manage to be the focus of media attention and others that do not. Vaccination, contagion or the incidence of the virus are our daily bread, and it is important to know them, yes, but to understand more deeply everything we also need other figures, figures that do not come out in the media and that we do not even have them, figures invisible and hidden or hidden. Some examples, for example, include the level of occupancy of emergency accommodation resources or how many places are available for people on the street, or how the social services waiting list is. Hidden and hidden figures, we do not even know, except for the past bull, the evictions that are pending execution or those that will come. Nor is it known how long a person may be without knowing whether he or she can cross the border or when he or she will resolve his or her administrative situation. While many of us are awaiting when we can move from one municipality to another or when we can return to normal life, there are others, Mrs Artolazabal, who are least concerned about this, because what concerns them is their life, their rights were not taken away the day the state of alarm was declared, their life is a permanent state of alarm. And for many, they're not even people who deserve rights, and this, this is serious. The violation of their rights begins when they are forced to be in an irregular administrative situation, when they are denied access to the standard, starts when the only date we are able to assure them is the date of departure from the hostel or the emergency remedy on which they are. And you know one thing, that this becomes death, (...), Fatima, Yolanda, Victor, are the names of the people who in the last year have died on the street in Euskadi, have died on the street. It's just that I get my hair pointed and this makes me wonder what we're doing wrong, what your government's doing wrong, what's going on. Let's talk about more things, we have the Covid Law on the table. As the spokesman for my parliamentary group has already said, we believe that it is necessary, well, that there is a lack of content as far as we are concerned, because the law does not provide for measures for homeless people, nothing about housing alternatives, to ensure with curfews in force. And that's why we're also asking you today. In the middle of this period we have known Lehen Urratsa, the emergency response that has been sold as the covid strategy for the care of synhogarism, where without the third sector, the care to 1,000 people who attend to the day would not have been possible. We have heard of your inclusion in the budget for this year. We understand or overunderstand that it is something that has come to stay, but until Lehen Urratsa lasts, until he plans to continue and what will happen when Lehen Urratsa is also saturated, Mrs Artolazabal. We ask you this question, because if we look at the number of evictions that are expected as the shield falls, the one that prohibits evictions, if we continue with a migration policy that gives priority to control over the right to migrate, if we continue to believe that the worst has already happened, because we are going to remain blind to the wave that has grown after the first, second, third and fourth wave, and that is called the wave of exclusion. This wave is going to come yes or yes, it is going to come as a result of the destruction of employment, the difficulties in accessing housing, the saturation of social services, and that it is our and your obligation and that it is an obligation by law to give effect to the rights of citizens. And we want to know, we want to know what the Basque Government will do to address the worsening living conditions of people at risk of social exclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u144	Thank you, Mrs. González, agradez su pregunta y compartimos las preocupacenes. I agree with you to continue to improve the attention of people who have no homes. We agree to guarantee their rights by saying that we have to make more and more effort. Two people who haven't had a home these weeks have died in Bilbo. It's tragic. Pain and uneasiness oblige us not to resume our work from all societies and societies. The pain and the anxiety of this collective is forcing us to improve our attention. The Basque Strategy for Homeless People 2018-2021 is an appropriate tool to improve the system of care for homeless people and not just from social services. In addition to developing a housing-based approach, we must promote a preventive division focused on the prevention of serious residential exclusion and with early intervention. The aim is to contribute with this two-way approach to care and prevention, to reducing the number of homeless people. The pandemic has had an obvious effect on sinogarism, but we have tried to turn it into an opportunity. Its effects, together with the gravity of the situation they face, have a direct impact on the health and life expectancy of these people. That is why it is necessary to continue to work to reduce to the maximum the sinogarism and to respond directly to situations that may trigger it. This is the basis of homelessness strategy. This strategy, in addition to the objectives already stated to prevent and reduce sinogarism, is based on a... [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]] ... This is the basis of homelessness strategy. This strategy, in addition to the stated objectives of preventing and reducing sinogarism, is based on people- and housing-centred planning. It is a comprehensive strategy that addresses the different issues affecting people living in residential exclusion. It is aimed at improving the quality of services provided in temporary accommodation and day and night accommodation, as well as intervention in an open environment. And it ensures the proper development of the portfolio and the map of social services. An important aspect related to the development of this strategy, and which I consider to be of vital importance, is the fact that the axes, objectives and guidelines that form it have been elaborated and agreed upon by an inter-agency working group set up for this purpose. A job among all in Auzolana, which is how this government likes to work. This strategy and its development has been more present in our performance since March last year. The pandemic has caused us to react in many areas, and as you have seen in my response to Mrs Kortajarena, that of caring for the homeless has also been a concern that has kept us busy and attentive in a special way. The confinement decreed at the beginning of the pandemic and the decision of the Government of Spain to close pensions and hotels left hundreds of people on the street. It is known that many measures have their pros and cons, and the decision of the Spanish Government to close those resources at that time had undesirable social consequences. We warned them, but we didn't succeed. The difficult situation of people who were not included in the biannual count emerged, worryingly increasing the number of people in the street. Also people working in a submerged economy who had run out of livelihood and housing. We are then faced with a critical reality that required urgent attention, which could be organized thanks to the experience and previous work of the collaboration that we have been carrying out from the Government together with the rest of the public administrations and entities of the third social sector. This work we've done together, the commitment and trust of all sides, has been essential in response to the circumstances we've found. The contribution of the organizations that followed the first line has been essential to create and to know the reality that needed an answer. We tried to make this dramatic situation a possible opportunity of paying attention to people who are in danger of neglect. In order to better coordinate, within the framework of the civil dialogue table, we activated the Exclusion Commission with the aim of meeting and collaborating with these entities in the attention of all those groups that were left on the street without resources, in solitude and without having their basic needs assured. And, as it could not be otherwise, in collaboration with municipalities, with outlaws and other government departments, such as Housing and Health. We thus created the Inor Fund atzean utzi gabe, with 10 million euros, which allowed us to design eight programs to reach hundreds of people with names and surnames. More than 13,000 people were cared for. People with life projects and longings for the future who should not be truncated by the pandemic. And an important part of those people were those who were on the street or who had stayed on the street, and those who had to be given immediate accommodation and basic needs coverage, among other things. Of the programmes implemented, four served as a concrete response to homelessness. Aterpeak was the program that during the confinement enabled places to accommodate people in situations of sinogarism in the three capitals. A total of 1,635 people were cared for and 978 clothing kits and 62 school kits were dispensed. The validity of this programme has been linked to the confinement. Azken Sarea Indartzen is a last network to cover the basic needs of people or families with lack of resources who cannot access ESAs or GIR. In 2020, 7,621 benefits were distributed. Homeless persons also benefited from these benefits. Erdu is a programme of intervention in the vicinity of addictions, which last year served 832 people, many of them homeless, who were in housing resources by confinement. And Lehen Urratsa, whom you mentioned, incorporates the implementation of itineraries from the resources of accommodation and reception and social accompaniment of the homeless, who were hosted in shelters and ateliers during the confinement. During 2020, the eight entities involved in the programme served a total of 694 people. We are convinced that these programs created at a time of crisis have offered us the opportunity to better understand the collective, to identify in a personalized way the needs to be met and to offer accommodation alternatives to people who were in a situation of extreme vulnerability. The crisis can generate needs and problems, but we must also have the capacity to identify opportunities created by the crises. On this occasion, we have been able to take advantage of these opportunities through this joint effort. The confinement allowed us to identify one by one, with names and surnames, all the people who were in a street situation, since all or almost all of them were cared for in Aterpeak's devices. After the confinement, to all, I insist, all the people welcomed were offered a housing alternative through Lehen Urratsa, and access to a benefit to cover basic needs through Azken Sarean Indartzen. Nearly 700 people will accept the opportunity offered to them, and they are currently being served in the Lehen Urratsa programme. We are proud to have prevented hundreds of people from falling into the most extreme exclusion by returning to the street. Social entities that used to look after themselves on the street, can now do so in pensions or hostels, opening up new possibilities for integration. I encourage you to contact some of these entities to get first-hand knowledge of the work they are doing. This housing alternative, linked to an accompaniment process, is allowing the people cared for to engage in a more continuous process with social entities. All this work is well known and this experience is being intensified in recent months and is being incorporated into the homelessness strategy. And as for what we are going to do from now on, Mrs González, in an extraordinary way I will tell you that in the year 21 we will keep the programs designed in the year 2020 in order to continue to attend so much... [[End of tape 42]] [[Begin of tape 43]] ... Mrs Gonzalez, in an extraordinary way I will tell you that in the year 21 we will keep the programs designed in 2020 in order to continue to attend to both housing aspects as well as to cover basic needs or attention to addictions, very focused on the homeless, with almost 9 million euros. And within the framework of the strategy, we will continue to work with the rest of the institutions to improve the living conditions of these people. We are in constant contact with social entities. We hear your concerns and also your satisfaction with the progress of the past few months. I encourage you to transfer, as we have repeatedly done, to the competent administration the necessary updating of the Aliens Act in order to reduce the amount of child abuse, facilitating the regularization of the administrative situation of migrants so that they can opt for a contract. Podemos' influence can be key to removing the difficulties that prevent the success of integration processes and cause situations of exclusion and sinogarism. And aware of your concerns, I am sure that it will influence the same direction that this Government is doing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u146	Thank you, Chief Artola generouss department. We have always said that the strategy and those projects, those programmes he mentioned, were very good on the paper. I take note of those contacts you tell me. But I really wanted to give you an example, which we already started with the strategy, we said it seemed to us to be doomed to failure, and the example of Bilbao. For example, in September there were 494 people in the accommodation, plus 223 in the street. The places offered at that time by the municipality, the Basque Government plus the special ones that were enabled by the cold wave were 636. In other words, the maximum number of people who were plaintiffs was not covered. And well, it will be necessary to see in May what figures it throws, which is that we do not arrive, Mrs Artolazabal, which is that we do not arrive, we do not reach all the people who are on the street. And you know what happens? That we're not really understanding what this is about sinogarism, or that we're not coming as... We're not giving him the attention he deserves. It's not something to live with when we pass the door of the English Court or in front of a cashier. Sinogarism is a consequence of the policies we implement. Sinogarism is being homeless, and when someone doesn't have a home it's because the institution isn't providing it. Because having a home goes hand in hand with having money. So life is for those who can afford it. And it's that hard, Mrs. Artolazabal. This is pure and hard capitalism. And of course, I'm not going to tell you that you're the most responsible for it. This is a geopolitical thing. And although, well, I suppose the subject of capitalism won't look bad to you, but I will tell you that you can make policies that improve life, that reverse the inhumanity of neoliberalism, policies for life in the face of policies that fuel death. Although, well, sometimes you make policies, too, because you can decide, right? Make policies for the life of who, because they can be equal by the directors of Iberdrola or the bosses of BBVA. And then that means sometimes that some lives matter more than others. And that's why there are people living on the street, and that's why there are people who need those emergency resources. And I'm not going to tell you that those lives don't matter, because that would be demagogic for me. I'm going to tell you that you're not repairing them, that you're not looking at them face to face, that you're not talking to them. It could be, you know, I don't know, out of shame, out of modesty, for whatever it is. It can also be by aporophobia, by phobia to poverty. And this is hard and it's very hard. And when we have institutional responsibility in this situation, we see that sinogarism is not a spontaneous process. It's not something that comes out like a mushroom, is it? When we have responsibility and we do not change the situation, what we are doing is necropolitical. It's politics with death without life being fed. And don't understand that I'm telling you that your policies kill de facto. It's more complex. What I'm telling you is that necropolitics is to let die, to create policies in which they die little by little, little by little. And I don't want to be, you know, I don't want to be hard on you, because the thing about aporophobia happens to us all. I prefer to be effective, because I care very much about the lives of those who have no home. And let's look at poverty and sinogarism at the front. Let us approach in an effective and cross-cutting way. Let us look at it honestly, humbly, and make good policies. And some proposals, for a coordination service, that the big fish not eat the boy, that the policies reach all, to all the municipalities. A shock plan for access to housing, effective social registration, to treat the population at risk of social exclusion as citizenship, the right to health and effective vaccination. But above all, I wanted to say that with emergency resources, structural problems cannot be tackled. And you have to think about what's going to happen when the ERTEs fall, how we're going to face extreme poverty levels. And well, and let's put ourselves to it, that we are going to bet on a radical empathy, on the shielding of rights and on giving social services the dignity they must have, that the most vulnerable people feel they count...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Your time is up. Your time is up. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u148	I don't know if he's ever... [[End of tape 43.]] [[Begin of tape 44.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u149	I do not know if you have finished listening, Mrs González, to all the questions I have been raising. We were already working with this group of people, a group that is complex, that has a very diverse reality and that it was necessary to do something in a situation as complicated as the pandemic, that it could have brought about a special situation for these people, because there were some who were on the street, but others remained seized by political decisions that drove them out of the places or accommodation where they lived overnight. We have tried to resolve in an urgent situation the people who were going through the worst. We have done so at the hands of those third-sector entities. And, truly, when I shared the reflections and when I compacted the work with them and with the people who have been the beneficiaries, there was one that said I was very grateful that this series of initiatives had been launched. A user, a person who had received the help because for the first time they had agreed to it. Let me highlight the commendable work carried out by Bizitegi, Ellacuría, Peñascal, the Commissions Anti AIDS, Bizkaisida and AIDS Álava, Zabalduz, Caritas, Arrats, Erain, Fundación Gizakia, Agipad, Etorkintza, Fundación Jeiki and dozens of other social entities working against social exclusion and synhogarism. All the people who were cared for during the pandemic era, when we were confined and cared for in the polysports, were given an alternative to all, a housing alternative and a small help that allowed them to get out of that very complex situation and that has allowed us to identify them, in addition, that they trust us so that we can work on that itinerary of inclusion in a society as is the one we have at this time designed. And that is a very important step and it gives us a satisfaction to be able to continue working with these people, because many of them, some of them are already on the way out of this situation of exclusion. It is difficult to articulate a single cause to be seen in such a dramatic situation. And the interventions must be articulated, first, on the preventive level in order to prevent it from falling into this situation, but then we must make a multidimensional intervention. And it is significant that not all people would accept the opportunity to access that housing resource that I told you, Mrs Gonzalez, some because economic activity has already begun, they had their own resources, and others because they did not want to. Lehen Urratsa has been the embryo of a project that we were already working with the rest of the institutions to provide an opportunity for the socio-occupational inclusion of children and young people in vulnerable situations, because it is also a very important collective. The past legislature has already begun this work from Lanbide's unique projects seeking to advance from inter-institutional cooperation. This process was stalled by the pandemic and the end of the legislature, but our goal is to re-activate the implementation of a more ambitious project, incorporating and benefiting from the learning that the Fund's programmes have given us. It has been 15 months since the start of the pandemic. We have devoted special attention to the most disadvantaged groups, to single-parent families with dependent minors, to young migrants, to people with mental health problems and/or addictions, to female domestic workers without papers or contracts, to women in the prostitution environment, to children at risk of exclusion as an effect of the digital divide. And we are now nearing the end of the current Basque Strategy for Homeless People and we have the opportunity to incorporate all this learning into the next strategy. Next we will be holding the fifth days on residential exclusion in Euskadi, with which we intend to offer a meeting place to reflect on the impact of the new socio-health situation on the reality of the homeless or in residential exclusion. We will analyse the impact of the Homelessness Strategy and its Reorientation over the coming years. We have a window of opportunity that has been opened and can have a tour beyond the pandemic. We are drawing the shared lessons from this crisis and moving forward in piloting initiatives that are already under way and we want to assess their standardization and consolidation. We have to keep giving these people opportunities that matter to you as much as to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The twenty-first point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Barroja, the Puscal Popular Groups of Ciudadans, made for the head of the Policicicical Division of Cultura and Language, in order to exclude the residence of Bilbo 2020 Eurocopa, the final decision which UEFA has ever made of it." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u151	Yeah. Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor, Counselor, ladies and gentlemen. We asked the government two weeks ago to tie up the Euro Cup in Bilbao and they didn't. A great disappointment for our parliamentary group, Mr Zupiria, the UEFA informed the Basque institutions a few days ago of its decision to remove Bilbao from the set of European seats that will compete in the final phase of Eurocopa 2020 because it does not guarantee a number of conditions requested by the sports entity. The Basque institutions, you among them, have said anything but something clear. They have announced possible legal actions against the decision, the Basque institutions are responsible for not securing the conditions and, however, they are attacking the sports institutions, which had a normal approach to this situation. I mean, the question would have to be why yes in so many European cities and not in Bilbao? We have transformed it into how it appreciates UEFA's decision to withdraw Bilbao as the venue for the celebration of the 2020 European Cup. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u152	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u153	President andrea. Mr Barrio, I will express to you the assessment of the Basque Government by referring to the letter we sent to the Ministers of Culture and Health before UEFA informed us of its decision, and with another reference drawn from a reply from the Minister of Health, also prior to... [[End of tape 44.]] [[Start of tape 45]] ... before UEFA informed us of its decision, and with another reference drawn from a reply from the Minister of Health also prior to UEFA's communication to us. In the letter that Councilwoman Sagardui and I sent on December 18th, two days after the question you raised to me in this House, to Ministers Darias and Rodríguez Uribes, we indicated to them the following textually: "The Basque institutional leaders are not prepared to assure the European and Spanish Football Federations of commitments that are impossible to predict today, let alone to anticipate objectives of another tenor to the overcoming of the pandemic and to guarantee the fulfilment of the conditions of behavior and social coexistence that today have proved to be the only effective ones to prevent the transmission of the disease and its contagion." UEFA, in a press release published on 23 April, reported that the four parties initially planned in Bilbao would move to La Cartuja Stadium in Seville. He added: "The celebration of these parties has the support of the Autonomous Community of Andalusia, which has confirmed its intention to allow spectators to 30 % of the capacity of the stadium". And he apostilled: "Therefore, with the help of the Royal Spanish Football Federation, UEFA proposed moving these matches to another venue in that host country simply," he said, "to allow fans to attend the matches after a year without seeing football live again in the stadiums." And it ended: "This decision will allow a festive atmosphere in all the parties that are held in the most important selection competition of the UEFA". Minister Darias, in a letter we received after UEFA's communication, told us textually: "For the time being, health conditions and the need to protect both athletes and the citizens attending prevent the normal development of these events", referring to the presence of the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u154	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u155	According to news reports that have been publicly available, the central government advised the Basque government to be more flexible in the conditions for the Euro Cup. That's what's been said over there. (? ) sources of the Ministry of Culture. But that's what he advised, more flexibility. We have not understood, Mr Zupiria, the attitude of the Basque institutions. But what have Rome done under the same conditions, London, St Petersburg, Munich, Amsterdam, Bucharest, Copenhagen in relation to being European capitals where the final phase of a Europe is to be fought? I mean, why hasn't there been any conflict there and here it is? And we have seen that UEFA, the Spanish Football Federation and the Government of Spain have not understood the attitude of the Basque Government. I say again that the Spanish Government called for flexibility in terms of conditions. In addition, we have heard the representative of the Government speak about political motivations. What political motivations in UEFA, in the Spanish Football Federation, in the Government of Spain in relation to not being Bilbao? We don't understand that accusation. It's been a great disappointment, Mr. Zupiria. Something has failed in the position of Basque institutions. And time, for the most part, was put on them putting conditions of impossible fulfillment. They didn't get ready for the public scenarios that's gonna have to be organized. I mean, it was an opportunity to make things right. It was an opportunity to do things right and the world to see that we did things right. And they've lost it, they've lost it. That is the essential element of all of this. There are systems today for the protection of safety and health. Reduced weights, as it was going to have to be, that are compatible with sport, that are compatible with culture as a spectacle. That could have been set in motion, of course, for the benefit that that would bring. And there was no pro-active approach in that regard, but negative and discarding. And that was unilateral on his part. Then the UEFA had to formalize it. But it was unilateral by the Basque institutions. Did they not feel bad that they were people from Bilbao and San Sebastián to Seville at the end of the Cup, two months before the Euro Cup? I don't know, they didn't feel bad about that situation, from the public in... in... Well (?) I don't know. The truth is, it's what happened. A great disappointment, an economic, commercial and image damage. And I think the truth is that there's been opposition...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u156	Thank you, Mr. Barrio.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u157	I'mdel PNV.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u158	Thank you. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u159	Mr Barrio, the only official communication we have received from the Ministry of Health is the one I have read to you, which says that "for the time being, health conditions and the need to protect sportsmen and citizens prevent normal development, prevent the presence of the public". UEFA has withdrawn Dublin's candidacy because the Irish health authorities did not want to make any public presence commitments. UEFA has said that Munich is committed to having a public presence. On the same day, in the afternoon, the Mayor of Munich spoke on his behalf and on behalf of the Health Department of the Bavarian Government saying that they had not made any commitment to public presence. Before yesterday, Wednesday, April 28, the Minister of Culture has assured that there will be no public in the remaining matches for the end of the League season. And before yesterday too, with the same arguments put forward by Minister Darias, the Euroliga has decided that the Final Four of basketball will be held in Poland in private in the last days of May, 11 days before the start of the Euro Cup of Football. Mr. Barrio, I don't criticize us for being consistent and responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-30.u160	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at two thirty-eight in the afternoon.
