ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the subject list, remember that 32 lords and ladies have inherited their vote. Before we start, even before we start, I can inform you that the fourth point has been left for another. First point in theme list: "Motion, introduced by the members of the Ostero Galirdo EHG, about the Recurrent Power Land of the Sectorial Plan. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Otero, you have the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u1	Hello, good morning, everyone. And from my point of view, at least, welcome to this special plenob today. For me, the apassionant will be the one who knows about the rest of us, but we have four points, and these four points will ultimately combine the protection of the environment on one side, and, on the other hand, economic development or at least economic development of the first sector and the field. It is true that this legislature has become, in some measure, a perfect workshop, and that all of us know that the corrections of the parties that support it will always be interesting in any case, although we have a limited or limited ability to arrive at the agreements nowadays, to talk about these matters, to make a little pedagogia. What do I think of it in a certain sense... I remembered yesterday when I was making things, saying Gary Linker football, when they asked him what football is, he said: "El fútbol es una cuestion muy simple." "Es un juego que invento el Reino Undo, en el que jugan 11 contra, 11 y en el que siempre to Germany." And it seems to me that in this legislature too, there is something in common, but, welladan, such a thing as paraphrasetic, and that when we make discussions, it is that el Parlamento es un lugar en los debatates los loskas lokalas, collect the Basque People, pero la vostaciones es verda ques to Gobino o los gruos gruos queenneren albino. So we'll take advantage of the day to talk twice about the reorganized energy extension. The population has decided to keep their point. We shall, therefore, have here and there, more especially about the oolicties, and about the new plans which surround the olicians, replications, and counter-revolts, and so on. So then we shall be able to depopulate the whole argument. As I have said, the reasons for introducing this enterprise are manifest: and I should say that the most important dispute of the tenkads will be that of the next year and of the next year. And it seems to me that this matter will prevail, for the challenge of the people before us is great. And I'm talking about the climate course on a theme that deals with energy, because in the end we all know climate anguish, a large, very large measure (%c) More than 80) that fossil resources are derived from burning. And if we all agree, as the European Union has said, that we must make our economy carbonized, then it is clear that fossil energy, in some measure, must be replaced by reconnaisssances, and that we shall be able to give them a good many years. Even the day before I'd said something missing from a trail of paths, we can feel it. And so far as it is a great popular challenge, we ought to have great consent, and these extensive agreements ought to lead us to seek some few least consensus. The Basque Country is at a port on this subject, and also Arba, Biscaia, and Gipu, or I should say 'Zero' in particular. We've arrived in the 2020s, which is going to be a decade, and somehow we've got a lot of family work to do. The gass of our greenhouse effects are almost 60% higher than the average of the world, and our power consumption exceeds 60% of the world's average, and, with the reconnaisssance energy here, it can't even reach 10%, we don't allow 10 percent of it. So the retivators will be a great push for the next few years. Our Egyptian plan has been obsolete for the new purposes proposed. And what is clear is that we must install thousands of megawatts re-enactable in all their humours, natures, and variants. And we'll have to use different scales. We're the first, and we've been pushing it for long since, we've said this too, a distribution of energy, a distribution of citizens. But it's true that we should do all this, but it's true we'll have to deal with different scales. And therefore I think that, throughout the day, I shall constantly defend in front of this great popular challenge, there is need of a vast political alliance; and, of course, that this trial must be made with a public guide, and that it must be as ordered as possible as possible and as consistent as possible. Because here, we're all going to have to put our part in order to carry this process, which will be difficult, complex, and sometimes conflicted. In the preceding law, we accepted the Book of Enforcements. It seemed to us that this law might, in some measure, be a boundary, because it came with great protection. So, encouraged by this, we pushed a passage of carbonisation. That started off, but it didn't even stop. With the law there was an announcement made by us, and there was need for a sactorial plan in the country of the moderns. This was accepted by the Ferdinand, who did not vote here, but it's been two years, and this process hasn't even begun. And the other day, I did the Tapman in the interpelation, he said it would take two years to get him to do it. The search has hitherto been no good in the implementation of the renewing; the most energetic strategy has hitherto been accomplished. And, as I have said, the planning of strength is not enough for the climateal purpose before us, and for the colastic tasks which we are facing. The PTS of the Retrials will one day come, but at the same time I think we have a discussion on the table whether PTS or whether the Sectorial Planet is now in force or not. Mrs. Tapia, the other day, said that it was in force, but in 2002 I believe that I had said for the year of 2009 that he had already died politically; and here, in 2008, 2009 and those parts, it was agreed with unanimous consent that this should take a turn, and then that the projects above were much alike in the projectes we have over the Listaur. The fact is, if there was already a political agreement in 2009, that this sectary planning of the country, which was of the most particular kind, must be renewed by the difficulties which had hitherto existed, from 2009 to Paris, that everything has remained stationary or half-stop, that we are now in 2021, and have no news of the technical plan. But now, projects have come one after another over the table. I think it was in 1919. And we already have a number of projects derived from this new initiative. Four have already been introduced: At the fountains, Archamon, Azazan, and Labrazan. And, looking at the funds in Europe, besides asking for money for these four, for another fifth, for Argnan, and the Department of Economy, patience, and Environmental has also said that there can be several other sites, including Even and Araba. We feel like we need to take a drive around here on the subject. And, well, I suppose, Mr. Grivors will explain that from the points on which you support the government, there has come a correction, in some measure, that we must find a balance here, and that we must look for a balance from the region where each country has the potentiality. Dede Luego, we're very surprised to have that correction, and in the meantime four, five, or six projects announced to be in Aran. And I don't think that has much to do with the land stock. It happens also in Araban, that this is not the only case. It also happens that, independently of all the eolika projects, several fields or different projects have been started which have been associated with the photo-voltal energy: "There it is in the temple, already opened, and the city shall come also. And in the end, I don't know why AUBREK has decided that a land can be sacrificed to re-enactable energy can be, or something like that, because otherwise it doesn't understand why no project has ever come in other countries. Or, as I was saying the other day, they may perhaps come to Abara because there may be a greater resistance in the compositions of Biscacious and Gipu. I think you should explain that. In any case, it seems to us that if we see places and today we'll have more chance of talking about these sites, we'll have to get to a minimum of consensus here, and we'll find it very difficult to reach that minimum of consensus if you take the main projects to the areas of special preservation. It seems to us that the transition is a long breath of defiance to the climate and the climate, and that it will be a process of long breath, and I dare say, inculuso, that we have not been assured that we will succeed, although we do things well among us all. Imagine the great point of a challenge. What I would like to ask is that we do not begin without consensus, that we do not quarrel with a social conflict which begins this process with a promise, and that we may try to get hold of each time and again into a continental world. Let us try to exclude the most precious places from the environment, this is the chromatic nature 2000 network from this process; otherwise the process will not be successful at all. Then, in the replication, and, well, when the others bring back the other point, I shall have occasion to say more, but I must confess that I have observed the examination of the environmental impact in these days, of Archamot's park, and above all of the Fountain Park, and that it seems to me that even the Projects themselves, when they present the project, are conscious of it, and admitted, that in particular areas of protection there will be enormous damages, and that many of them will not be able to avoid, even if we put these famous inclosuso correcators. If that's the case, it's finally the proposition we're doing it for her to start, so let's get her back to the PTS that you promised her for two years. Let's bring that in and settle the process. We all agree that the retractors must have an enormous push. But, please, let us stop the attractions that will cause great damage or the greatest damage, otherwise there is no means of doing anything consistent here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u2	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the Basque Popular Group is the representative of the Ciudadans. Miss Larrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u3	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Today is an important day in this House for the environment and for the practical translation of concepts such as sustainable development or the defence of biodiversity. It has probably been a coincidence, but there are many proposals in this House that directly affect these matters and the actions of our institutions in this regard. We begin with the day of the marmot or perhaps the day of the living dead; an old debate, an archaic plan of well dead wind energy, better buried more than 12 years ago at the unanimous request of this Parliament and almost unanimous at the three general meetings. These are the immediate antecedents: a sectoral territorial wind energy plan designed in 2002 with a selection of exclusively economic locations, i.e. by expected wind performance; a failed plan, without consensus, which led to a strong political and social response. Whether this was true in 2002 or 2009, it is indisputably true today. They aim to promote a whole series of wind farms with a support of administrative archaeology, from the back to the citizens and giving up any political consensus in advance. The Government is, in fact, breaking the consensus reached in 2009 to address a new wind energy plan, a renewable energy plan; it intends to make its inability to carry out a new plan during the last decade virtue that justifies in 2021 the misappropriations that were avoided in 2009. And, in the specific case of the four parks that are intended to be installed in Álava, the consensus on the Mugarri plan, an approved plan at the General Boards that excluded energy installations of this type in the areas of Red Natura 2000, LIC, ZEC or ZEPA zones, outstanding landscapes or nesting areas of raptors and birds in danger, is also cast by land. They have made a full 15: the four parks, the four, affect fully areas of these characteristics. Our position is clear; it is in the amendment we have put forward, it is in the non-legislative proposal that we will then discuss and it was in our electoral programme. In fact, it is the same position that we have held since 2002 in the outside institutions, as a government or as an opposition, in this House when we were opposed, and when, as in 2009, we supported the government. Yes to renewable energy; yes to a consensual, agreed, sustainable renewable energy plan that respects those territories and values that we have all agreed to preserve and in the service of the general interest. And not to an old sectoral territorial plan of wind energy out of phase, without consensus, at the service of interests other than the general interest, which alters everything that we have wanted to bequeath to future generations in better conditions than we have received. Our 2020 electoral programme, since March, since before the electoral postponement, required, in fact, that all undeveloped locations in the first plan be excluded from the future renewable energy plan, as they are manifestly unsustainable. We quoted Mounts of Iturrieta and Arkamo among those places to preserve. I mean, yes to renewable energies. But that doesn't mean carte blanche; it doesn't mean anywhere, anyway, at any price. Because when environmental costs are not absorbable, wind energy ceases to be renewable and sustainable, to be simply dirty, the wind version of the oldest development that does not for any consideration except profitability. Industrialization of the summits, irreversibly altering the landscape, affecting the habitat of species that has cost decades to recover and that have the highest protection of European, national and autonomous regulations, transforming protected spaces into unsustainable energy plants... They are all actions incompatible with any concept of sustainable development. The PNV and PSOE have supported this for more than a decade. They have now changed their position or perhaps their interest. One has to ask why haste is just when you can push the renewable energy plan, why public money and public participations to push those wind farms and not other concepts. What does Iberdrola, an entire multinational, need to make that alliance? In exchange for what? To whose benefit? With what future commitments? Why does a prestigious multinational in the field of renewables agree to stain its name and logo by getting involved in unsustainable controversial parks of high environmental impact – some since 2002 –? That's why they were secondary locations. There is something that we do not know, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Commissioner for Economic Development, old-fashioned, not for the environment or for sustainability. Too many interests found. It's hard to get the two together. For example, there is no news of other sites explored or discarded in Bizkaia or Gipuzkoa or other places in Álava. For example, it draws attention to the fact that you, so nationalists, move away from the decision-making of Euskadi with wind farms and influence the neighbouring communities, to decide the ministry, to decide Madrid, and with Basque public participation in the maneuver. That is why, because what was bad in 2009 is still bad today, because its performance raises many questions and no satisfactory answers, because the urgency is a new renewable energy plan and not a new political, social and environmental wreckage, perhaps because a new regulation would not allow those parks, because we want things to be done well from consensus and respect for principles that we all share, is why we propose our amendment. Some people will say that to make a tortilla you have to break eggs. We, for tortillas, use chicken eggs, not eagle eggs or hawk eggs. For wind farms, which are industrial facilities, sustainable locations, not the places that were safe from industrialization and old-fashioned development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. We represent the Podemos-IU team together. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u5	Good morning. It is surprising, but also striking, that the first thing I say is that I fully agree with the statement made by the representative of the People's Party. And the truth is, it's eye-catching. And there should be some reflection to the extent that political forces that have held such divergent positions in relation to economic development and also in relation to environmental conservation can come to a common point on a question like this. I believe that the pandemic that we are experiencing makes us forget that we are still living in the midst of a climate crisis and that a climate emergency declaration was approved here a few years ago. A climate crisis that has been caused by the emission of greenhouse gases, mainly due to the burning of fossil fuels. Gasoline or diesel vehicles, house gas heating or coal or gas energy generation produce the highest emissions. Transitioning from the old fossil energy model to a new model based on renewable energy is the solution that scientists and experts give us. However, depending on each region and depending on the political party held by the Government, this transition is made one way or another. Euskadi – and this is a reality – has been paralyzed in gas and hydrocarbons for more than 20 years. And, for evidence, the position of the Basque Nationalist Party in relation to its insistence on the gas wells of Armentia, as well as its position with regard to the deductions to the diesel, as well as its permanent mentions of the need to have contaminating gas kilometre zero, making these permanent comparisons with the gas extracted from Algeria. 20 years of paralysis, basically, because certain energy oligopolies were not interested in losing business and were profiting from oil and gas. However, the renewables fever now returns, or the renewables fever is established, and, as it is noted that the Paris agreement and the peak of oil are approaching, all oil companies, including Repsol, are turning into the electricity market and are beginning to bid on electric auctions to obtain as many megawatts as possible to generate renewable energy. And this change in markets we are seeing in the acceleration that the renewable energy projects in Euskadi have taken: we have gone from 0 to 100 in just one year. And, as an ecological political force that we are, and progressive, we have to recognize that this acceleration in favour of renewable energies is a joy to us, but at the same time, we are disgusted. We are glad, obviously, because we understand that this is the way forward, but we are disgusted by the business model in which they are turning it. The model of renewable energy generation that you are promoting in Euskadi is terribly unfair; it is terribly unfair for the environment, it is terribly unfair for free competition and equal opportunities for businesses, it is terribly unfair because they continue to perpetuate the energy oligopoly, and it is terribly unfair because they want citizens to continue paying bills of light for life when we can invest massively in energy self-consumption and light comes out almost free. What is the PNV model in the absence of approval of the renewable energy PTS? A model that gives public aid to companies such as Iberdrola or Grupo Mondragon, which strengthens their monopoly in the generation of renewable energy in Euskadi. A model that occupies hundreds of hectares of rural land and protected areas, because it is much cheaper than promoting projects in public buildings or industrial polygons. A model that centralizes energy generation in a few companies to create a society of a few that generate electricity and many that we will have to pay bills all our lives. Let us see what renewable energy projects the Basque Government has recently given an acceleration. Ekienea's solar megaproject – which has already been mentioned – in Arminón: 100 hectares of rural land, 100 megawatts and 250,000 solar panels and an investment of 70 million euros. The investment is distributed between Iberdrola (75 %), EVE and Alavese foreign parliament (20 %) and Krean, Mondragon Group (5 %). The EKIAN project – adjacent to Ekienea –: 55 hectares in a non-urbanized plot of the Arasur industrial estate. Similarly, an investment of 24 million, participated by the EVE and 22 companies, among which are also Iberdrola and Krean and are joined by Irizar, Petronor and Fundación Vital. Then there would be wind farms, the four wind farms – which have also been mentioned. Exactly the same thing: 60% of Iberdrola's participation. In total, 250 megawatts of wind power and 124 megawatts of installed solar power, all in Araba, and in all Iberdrola and Krean appear as preferred partners, and we are concerned. We are very concerned that the renewable energy STP, basically, is reduced to what we are currently seeing: a plan for the Basque Government to provide projects to certain companies, with Iberdrola and Krean as banners; a plan to finance and assist in the annoying procedures of authorization and environmental impact assessment to these companies; a plan for these projects to proceed with the help of the Basque Government. And all this to help companies like Iberdrola, which in 2020 recognized record profits of 3.6 billion euros. And a series of questions come to mind: why are we using public money to boost and finance multinational energy companies? Why are these agreements not open to other energy cooperatives or citizens? A good business for you, but also terribly unfair to the environment. Between the two solar mega-plants have already occupied 155 hectares of rural land, 100 % planted land, where the lack of urbanized areas facilitates the installation of mega-plants quickly and at low cost. At this point, it might be interesting to know who they are buying or renting the land from, because all this also paints or goes the way to be considered as another urban ball. Is this the model of the renewable energy project that the PNV and the Basque Socialist Party are trying to promote? A model based on projects granted to related companies through agreements, without opening them to other companies or cooperatives? A predatory model of rural soil and even protected areas? For all these reasons, we have negotiated a proposal with EH Bildu, which we consider to be much more successful than the amendment tabled by the supporting parties, or the parliamentary groups supporting the Government. And, probably later, at the last point of this session – where we are going to talk about basically the same thing again – we will surely come to the same common position with the opposition forces regarding the need to review these approaches of the Basque Government in relation to renewable energies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u6	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Basque Socialists. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u7	Madame chairman, President, vice president, good morning to all of you. The truth is that, after listening carefully to the speeches that have been made, after also following the question that motivated this motion, as well as the answers that the Counsellor gave at the time, I sincerely believe that it is much more that unites us on this issue than it is that separates us. I do not think it is necessary to remember again that we are at a historic moment. The decisions we have made and those that remain to be made in the coming months will mark a phase change. The threat of climate change, the unsustainability of a system based on hyperconsumption and blindness not to see the gap we were opening up have characterized the systemic patterns of our society over the past 50-70 years. But the Socialists have not stood still in the face of the challenges before us. We have made the energy transition and the commitment to renewable energy the driving force for the successful implementation of international commitments to achieve climate neutrality. Ramón Rubial, the first lehendakari of democracy, said that the real revolution is the one that is made day by day in the Official State Gazette. From sayings to facts. That is why the Socialists have shaped our commitment to decarbonisation and climate neutrality in the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plan 2021-2030. That is to say, the Socialists have drawn up the road map that will mark the way forward to achieving the goals set for 2050. Black on white and on stamped paper. No one can doubt our firm commitment to lead this country's energy transition. Decarbonisation will require firm steps in two key sectors: decarbonisation of the economy and decarbonisation of mobility. Both aspects are intimately linked. The decarbonization of mobility requires a determined drive for electrification, and this, in turn, requires progress in the development of clean energies. It is therefore more necessary than ever to accelerate all renewable energy policies. It is necessary to have, as soon as possible, a territorial plan for Euskadi's renewable energy sector, which must be based on energy efficiency, the deployment of renewable energy, self-consumption and distributed generation. The deployment of renewable energies in Euskadi must contemplate the development not only of wind, but of solar, solar thermal, geothermal, biomass, hydrogen and all those renewable energies that allow us, as a country, to significantly improve our energy mix. A plan that should include not only the deployment of large infrastructures, but also must be agreed, in turn, with the outlying parliaments to allow the deployment of self-consumption and distributed generation on a smaller scale. Because as important as large infrastructures are the energy communities and solar cooperatives that allow for the empowerment of citizens and the democratization of energy, to fight against vulnerability and energy poverty. We must jointly develop the sectoral territorial renewable energy plan, which will improve the competitiveness of our companies, since energy, together with raw materials, represents two thirds of the costs of our industry. And, therefore, we must encourage the deployment of renewable energy as a clear commitment to support it. Nor can we forget – Mr Otero said here – that, as regards the origin of energy, Euskadi remains a territory with a high energy dependence on the outside. As you well know, around 90% of the energy we consume is imported. In contrast, our own production of renewable energy is very low, with a production that accounts for around 7% of the total. But all these plans must be done in a consensual way and under a new model of growth, based on the different European directives and under sustainable development. That is why new renewables facilities are needed in the country, to decarbonize the economy quickly, to combat climate change and to protect our biodiversity. Therefore, from our point of view, we must look at ways to bring all these policies together: energy, the fight against climate change and biodiversity, to ensure their development, minimizing impacts and seeking corrective and compensatory measures that will allow us to move towards the required scenario of total decarbonisation in our economy by 2050. So far, as I said, what unites us. And I am convinced that all or, at least, a large part of the groups that make up this House will agree with what has been said. It's true we're slow. It is true that the objectives we have set ourselves are ambitious and that the pace we are taking forces us to have to speed up so that we do not lag behind. Society, citizenship, increasingly aware of the challenge posed to us as a human being, would not understand that we should be entertained once again. That's why we don't have time to waste. The environmental impact reports made by technical staff of the Basque Government, rigorously and solvently, are guarantors of the safeguarding of spaces of special protection. Each project is conditional on the existence of a positive impact statement. That is the sine qua non that assures us that any project intended to be carried out has the necessary compensatory measures to ensure that it is being done properly. It is not the time to return to past positions, to stop projects, but it is the time to seek sustainable, balanced solutions that will allow us to move forward as a country, because, if we do not, we are not only conditioning our energy future, which will be subject to the external dependence of others, but we will be conditioning our own economy and the competitiveness of our companies. It is time for a high-profile policy in the search for energy and sustainable solutions. Managing renewable energy projects now with criteria and knowledge will position us in meeting the climate goals of the future. I insist: there is no time to waste. We have transitional tools that guarantee the safeguarding of our natural spaces of special protection. Euskadi is in a climate emergency. It is time to make decisions, to look forward with responsibility, but also with determination. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u8	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians. Mr. Gragars, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u9	Yeah. Thank you, Mrs. President. President, Chief, all members of the legislature, all good days. Well, I see two main hooks of this proposition I've put together. On the one hand the protection of our mountains, of Red Nature, and of our daily enterprises to stop or at least get out of it. We agree entirely with the first. But not with the second, we cannot agree, as your proposition says, when we are in a state of climate emergency. And I know you don't have to, because you throw away the flowers yourself, Mr. Otero, which seems like you don't have a grandmother sometimes. You say you win all the debates. I think it's perfect. They lack the will to sit there instead of where they sit, which is the most important debate, after all. But, in any case, and although, as I say, I do not think you need it, I want to highlight not only all that we agree with what you put forward in your motion, but also, as always, the disposition you have made these days to be able to reach an agreement, an agreement that we could have reached because we agreed by 90% on the text that you put forward and that we raised. But, well, their red stripes and our red stripes passed through the same area, I don't know whether they were protected or not, but they were in exactly the same place. In any case, at the first point in your motion, you put it that Parliament, in the context of a climate emergency, urges the government to push for a responsible, orderly and firm expansion of renewable energies. I would like to explain to you that the Basque Government has always worked, and will continue to do so, to ensure the compatibility of the development and implementation of renewable technologies with climate change, with the landscape, with cultural heritage, with the socio-economic environment, with safety and health and, of course, with environmental values. In this regard, in collaboration between the departments of the Basque Government themselves, comprehensive analyses are carried out on the planning, management and legislative instruments relating to renewable energy, so that the implementation of these instruments is compatible with them. We're not going to put them here; we do, we undo what we want, right? On the other hand, if we want to fulfil the energy and environmental commitments that have been established in all the geographical areas of our environment, that is, here, in the State and at European level, it is essential – and you know it – to support us in the development of renewable energies, taking into account the potential resources available in each geographical area and the existing territorial and environmental constraints, while at the same time appreciating the benefit that the establishment of such facilities offers to the development and technological innovation of the Basque industry – which there is another opportunity – the reactivation of the auxiliary business sector and the focus of projects in rural areas. Territorial balance. In short, renewable energy, climate action and the creation of quality and wealth jobs in the country. In the second point we are told: "Parliament urges the Government to present the first draft of the Territorial Sectoral Renewable Energy Plan, meeting the deadline set out in the fourth additional provision of the Energy Sustainability Act". Well, as we stand, we passed the Energy Sustainability Act at the end of February 2019. Within two months of the Act itself, the Government is working on the documentation necessary to carry out the renewable energy STP. In July – if I'm not mistaken – last year, the councilwoman drew – let's say – from citizen participation the contributions that could be made to respond to what the law requires before taking out the PTS. All necessary studies have been carried out; the progress document and the initial strategic document are in progress; and, if I am not mistaken, well, I suppose the adviser will soon sign. At the moment, as far as the law was concerned, if I am not mistaken, we have been two weeks late. Now it is necessary to launch the document as such – it has also been designed in recent months. And that is also where citizenship can take part, where a process of citizen participation will take place and where, among all of us, we can seek holes in that consensus to which we appeal or try to bring the positions closer, which is what you raise in your third point: "Urge the Government to present the means and mechanisms to achieve the greatest possible political, social and institutional consensus in the process of final approval of the Territorial Sectoral Renewable Energy Plan". I believe that under these premises of consensus work is being done, but not only for the process of approving this PTS, but for all those initiatives that are being carried out in the field of energy and climate change. In this sense, also on the line of what you raised at the first point, if not done in this way, it would be impossible to coordinate all the different actions being carried out – and there are many – whose objectives must be coordinated, aligned and as realistic as possible. And so far, Mr. Otero, no problem. I mean, the same as you think I was in agreement with the very important percentage of the amendment that we had tabled, because so far we are in agreement with what you were proposing. The lamb's mother, if I may say so, comes to the fourth point, when she says that, as long as the plan is approved, all the wind power plants that have been launched or announced are paralyzed, in order to achieve an orderly and consensual expansion of the renewables. Well, one thing doesn't take away for the other. In any case, I agree that the ideal situation would be to have the PTS of renewable energy finally approved. We're on our way. And I do not want to look any further, because we have had this debate on countless occasions in this House. However, precisely as you say, because we are in a climate emergency, I believe that the need for Euskadi to increase the contribution of renewable energies, especially wind energy, to electricity generation, to achieve the objectives set out both in the Euskadi 2030 Energy Strategy, in the Basque Climate Change Strategy 2050 and in the law we adopted two years ago, and thus move towards a sustainable and decarbonised energy model is peremptory. I believe that, if the objective really is this, it is not advisable at this time – to put it mildly – to stop renewable energy projects until the approved PTS is in place. Can you assure me that, if we wait two years, first, you will not continue to repeat that this government has done nothing in two years? Secondly, that you are going to accept what the PTS says in any case and that what is now impossible in two years' time is going to be possible? No, right? So, we're gonna lose two years? Are we going to be late for all the commitments we've made? Because, when it's up to you and me to make commitments, your natural tendency is to over, over, over; but then you have to get there. We will all be loyal to what we say and to what we propose. And in any case, I think the word itself says, "no, it's that they're protected areas." Well, perfectly. Precisely because of this, whether with or without PTS, any renewable energy project will have to accommodate those places where territorial planning does not prevent it and it is possible to make the installation compatible with the preservation of biodiversity and the natural, landscape and cultural values of the area. In this particular case, in the case of wind energy, the absence of the PTS of renewable energy does not in any way mean that the territory is unprotected from wind farms. On the other hand, successive environmental, territorial and urban controls, apart from energy, to which the authorisation of a wind farm is subject, will ensure that they are located in sites compatible with the planning of the territory and with the preservation of the environmental values of the area. By the way, Mr Soto, these permits will be given to us by your Government. Hang in there. Thus, the approval of any location will require an administrative authorization of the installation, which will only be given after passing the corresponding assessment and declaration of environmental impact; and this, apart from the urban construction license and the rest of the permits, licenses and authorizations that may be necessary in the particular case. In such proceedings, the promoter shall certify that the wind farm he intends to set up is fit within the framework of the territorial planning created by the DOTs and by the rest of the land management instruments, and that it is compatible with the levels of protection offered by environmental legislation and the rest of the environmental management and management instruments.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u10	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u11	Therefore, any wind farm should be limited to the protection we have, whether PTS or no PTS. On the next shift, I'm on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u12	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Passing over to the line that has no corrections, Mistha mustn't speak. So, we're going to be able to respond. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u13	Well, first replica, then there'll be more. A couple of notes I'll leave you, Mr. Alonso. You say the socialists haven't been standing still. In Madrid, they may not have stood still; here, it is not so clear to me. That there's a road map, that you have to lead, that you have to be consensual, he said. Well, that's what we're coming to, to be consensual, because right now the plans aren't going to be. And you also said there's no time to waste. About this we're going to keep talking, how much time to waste or how much time to earn, because there are times that it seems that the time you waste is time you earn, depends on what you do during that time, right? I have one thing to say to you, for correcting an error that I believe you have had, which said that compatibility with environmental values is guaranteed because environmental impact reports are made by the technicians of the Basque Government. That's not true. The environmental impact assessment report, if the assessments had been read, would realize that it is done by a private consultant. So don't get the government, the Basque government technicians into this. And there is another question that seems important to me to point out, and it is: are you willing to...? And I'm going to put you, without precedent, a map of Spain; you won't see too much, but I do because the reference is MITECO. The MITECO, which you control from the fourth vice presidency, has made zoning maps for the deployment of renewables, which is clearly coming and going to be massive. He's done a zoning for the photovoltaics and he's done a zoning for the wind. In this wind zoning, it has decided – let's say – that it has a maximum environmental sensitivity of 50% of the territory, and therefore it is not recommended to wind. Its Ministry of Ecological Transition. Obviously, I'm not going to zoom in here, but I invite you to come in and see how both Arkamo and Iturrieta, according to MITECO, are an unrecommended area to do. Based on that "no time to waste", are you willing to jump – let's say – the criterion that your own vice-presidency has set with regard to environmental zoning? I want you to answer this to me, I'm satisfied. Eta, Yellow Grills, compatible or not compatible with preservation. Nik you had zuek ere konturatu zaretela ez her battery. That is, the environmental impact report or the environmental assessment report makes it very clear. And you, in the very amendment that the Government has made or prepared for you, appeal to Article 46 of the Law on Heritage and Biodiversity, and it is curious, because in the environmental assessment report you do, too, because the environmental assessment report itself qualifies the potential impacts expected in the park, after analyzing everything in Montes de Iturrieta, for example..., it is concluded that the overall impacts analyzed in this project, after the implementation of corrective and compensatory preventive measures, are assessed globally as moderate or severe. And, as it is known that even applying corrective measures the impact on the special conservation zone will be moderate or severe, i.e. severe for biofauna, cultural, landscape heritage and for the overall state of conservation of the special protection zone, the introduction of compensatory measures appeals to that article 46 of the State Natural Heritage Act, which states that compensatory measures are intended to compensate for the impacts that cannot be avoided, mitigated or corrected by preventive or corrective measures. That is to say, you are assuming that in the special conservation areas where the projects have been proposed there will be impacts on the Natura 2000 network and that compensatory measures will be taken to help, on the other hand, what on a special conservation area we are going to annoy, impact..., call yourself whatever you want. They're taking on a lot of very thick things when they're talking about this. The hurry obviously exists, but the hurry does not justify everything. We can continue to talk and negotiate about the sites. Mrs. Tapia invited me to move all of us a little bit. We have that willingness to move, but, of course, now, in a hurry to do something that has not been done for the past 12 years, something that was agreed in this Parliament, such as the PTS and so on, now I do not know how far they realize the destruction that this can entail. And then there's another point, so there's a few more things we'll keep talking about.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u14	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Basque Popular Group-Ciudados. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u15	Thank you. We came from the general consensus of 2009. We were all about to throw away that old plan. What is surprising is not the position of the PP, Mr Soto; you were not in this House in 2009. The novelty is the blatant change of interest of the PNV, now at the service of mere profitability at the cost of the environment. By the way, how many public buildings today have solar power? Because two decades have passed since the climate change strategy, and it was proposed, approved, and have done nothing. That's wasting time. You are doing the opposite: development at the expense of the environment, without renewables plans. Decarbonising at the cost of the territory is the opposite of sustainability. The generation of energy where it is consumed is absurd; it generates in Alava and it is attributed to the consumptions of Bizkaia or Gipuzkoa. Should all renewable energy from compact steel be produced in Sestao? Well, it's absurd. Those who have not done anything in 12 years cannot say that there is no need to paralyze projects. The counselor told us that now each turbine can produce like four of the old turbines. Well, why not adapt the old parks? Why are the turbines not reduced or the power of existing installations increased? No, the bet is to multiply the incidence in the most fragile and best preserved places – also the cheapest and most profitable ones – of our territory. The approach is strictly about productivity and benefits, not sustainability. And the key is: renewable yes, but not anywhere, in any way or at any price. Neither the cart in front of the oxen nor the parks in front of the plan. And Mr Grajales has said so; the key is what you have said: in two years' time it may not be possible to install these parks, because plans in two years' time may not allow it. Doing politics to accomplished facts is also not a good way to act and is not... I'm going to say, it can even get to be prevarication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. We represent the Podemos-IU team together. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u17	Well, indeed, we agree with the diagnosis, but it is that the transition, the gas, has been going on for 20 years, and 20 years of delay we have been in Euskadi in relation to the gas transition. We do not understand that it is said that we now have to speed up the times and that within a year we have to eat basically with potatoes projects in protected spaces because in 20 years no plans have been put in place, no projects that address this situation. We do not understand how solar mega-plants can be planted, using protected areas, and not all the decks of the public buildings in Euskadi are used. There are thousands and thousands of square meters on the roofs of the public buildings of the Basque Government, of the deputies and of the municipalities; thousands of square meters on the houses of VPO, on the new housing promotions or on the roofs of industrial polygons. We think we should go that way. We do not understand why these projects are being promoted, which we believe should be paralyzed. And also, considering that, as was said, in two weeks the PTS will be, why not wait until then? Why this hasty acceleration of the times, bearing in mind that the deadlines are so short? We believe that the vector that governs everything has to do with the market niche that this issue poses for the electric oligopoly, and that, basically, you, in this case, care for the designs and desires of certain energy companies in this country; indeed, sector where more revolving doors exist. For this reason it will be, and generally so, always in relation to the parties, in this case, which support the Basque Government. We believe that we should attack the solution through the opportunity offered by obtaining local and clean energy without depending on third parties, but from a perspective of energy sovereignty, of reducing energy costs of our companies, making them more competitive, reducing the bill of light...; but this, in correlation with not attacking biodiversity and the protected spaces of our country, which I believe is perfectly compatible with one thing with the other. And let us be told here that in order to speed up the times we must, in the end, attack protected areas because if not equal within two years what we think of the parties that support the Government, or the Government itself, is that it has not met the deadlines, the times, the objectives that are being pursued, in the end, seems somewhat cynical to me. We believe that we have to move towards a model that does not centralize energy generation in a small electric oligopoly, that stops helping related companies like Iberdrola and Krean. It is symptomatic that virtually all the projects of a certain entity that the Basque Government is launching, because in them there is always co-financing of these two companies, Iberdrola and Krean, through agreements, moreover, that do not help in anything to companies or energy cooperatives that also exist in this country and that could participate in these projects. We believe that, in this case, it is not being ambitious enough, and that it is basically taking advantage of compliance with the Paris agreements and the law-making process, both at state level and within the autonomous framework itself, to make this a business niche. And that's it. Or, failing that, that the fulfilment of these objectives should be coordinated with economic returns for certain companies, in this idealised way of public-private support, for the maintenance of the objectives that should really be directed to the general interest and not to the individual. We believe that the public-private must always be subject to the maintenance of the general interest, and in this case, we believe that it is not fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u18	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Basque Socialists. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u19	Well, I, really, am going to be brief, because it's true that then we have a double session. We are going to have the opportunity to speak again on this issue, and I believe that, indeed, the positions have already been clearly defined, both of them. Just a few thoughts, like that, on the plume. First of all: I think we need to be sensible enough to plan the real energy need of this country, not just – let's say – looking for alternatives, more or less, on a small or medium scale, but taking into account the energy need that our industry has, for example, where one of the most important parts of that industry is of high energy consumption. So this will require serious planning, but taking these issues into account. Then, on the other hand, we will also have to discuss, at some point – I imagine – the need for energy corridors that allow us also, in some way, to have that edge of the pool to grab at the moments when we need energy in this transition. I would – and I almost went down exclusively to answer Mr Otero as far as the question is concerned, because, well, in the end I was asked directly – and, listen, I try, as far as possible, to clarify. Well, this issue of MITECO is true that it is a map, that it is indicative, and that what it defines are different areas and the criterion that these areas have according to the view of the Ministry. Then, the moment you want to develop each of the parks or each of the plans, you will have to do a more detailed and deeper study – which is what you are really doing – and with all these impact reports, which are what they have to do. It is not a word – let us say – binding and demanding, but it is a guiding question that then leads you to the need for a more or less in-depth study on the subject. And that's it. We have second round in two points.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u20	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians. Mr. Gragars, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u21	Thank you again, Mrs. Chairman. President, Chief, congressmans, good morning again. Look, what we do of course from the parliamentary group Euzko Abertzaleak-Vascos Nationalists is that every human activity has an impact on the planet – not just the human one; the animal as well. And we are also clear that sustainable development must pursue the definition of viable projects that combine economic, social and environmental aspects of these human activities, three pillars that must be taken into account in order to bring that end to fruition. Euskal Herria Bildu, truly, let him who understands you buy you. When it is not done, because it is not done; when it is done, because it is done. It's all bad for you. It's all bad for you. And I get it. You may have had your arguments sometimes, sometimes less; of course, but, as you have all pointed out, you may have attended to tyrios and Trojans. We support those who want renewable energies, and at the same time we support those who want no weed on the mountain, and at the same time those here, and at the same time those there. Just as we are in a climate emergency, just as we have to meet objectives, so the time has come to do a little pedagogy and say yes, not so far, not so far, not so far. Because, if not, I, of all his interventions – not all those of Euskal Herria Bildu, but of all the interventions of the opposition here today –, what I take is a feeling of "yes, yes, renewable energy yes, renewable energy yes, but not in my back yard". Renewable energy yes, the same as gas or whatever: out, out, out; not here, that bothers us. So let's see if, somehow, we are able to approach positions and not take everything from a position – let's say – maximalist. I think you're used to someone in the dome, somewhere, making a decision and brrruu!, and then it falls, and you all go to the alimon. It can be one thing and the other in two weeks. But in that I recognize that they have a great capacity. Look, I belong to the last anarchist reduct from the west, but I'm also proud of it. I think we have a system in which the internal balances themselves – I am no longer talking about the party, but about the country – work, and work well. Then, the government, through a public enterprise, poses. Then there will be the municipalities, the deputies to say this yes, not this. And that doesn't create any trauma. But you've already made your movie, you've made your lie, you've... You've got the picture, haven't you? On a very high floor somewhere, those of the rotating doors have already been joined with those of the party to share it, so I don't know what. Well, well, well, well. Hamaika gauza ikusteko jaioak omen race. You also said, "Killing the Arab," Mr. Otero. I didn't think you were the new Mosque. Sacrificed Araba? Are the ancestors weaker than the others? The ancestor is more than the others... Why are you weaker? Because you have less strength? I don't think so. Why are you weaker? We'll see, we'll see, we'll see, we'll see, we'll see, we'll see, we'll see, we'll see, we'll see, we'll see, But don't put us in that situation that Alava is the weak one. No, no. Álava has her town halls, they'll do what they have to do. Álava has her deputy, who will do what she has to do. And from there, we'll see. And, Mrs. Larrea, don't say things I haven't said. I said that, with PTS or without PTS, the protection of the mountains, the protection of the ZECs, the ZEPA, the Natura 2000 Network is the same. And I agree with you: it's a shame that the mills can't get into mines – in caves not, because they sure touch something – or in the living room of our house. But, unfortunately, I insist: renewable energies, both wind and photovoltaic, at this time, affect. We could all have at home, on the terrace, some question, some little mill that made us... But unfortunately, this still doesn't work. So, I beg you all, I would ask you: let's walk together, let's walk together, let's not get lost in the not in my back yard, or, at least..., or let's say it clearly: we want renewable energies, but let's get them from there, that here we're not going to meet any of the parameters that we've set ourselves. And, finally, Mr. Soto, the discount on the bill for the light... go ahead, go ahead. That's your government. He's got us on top, on top, one with you. Put down the bill for the light, which I already advance, without talking to Mr. Esteban, who have our vows to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u22	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. The discussion is over and we'll vote for the middle-direction that EH Collect and the Podemos-IU have signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters are 33; the opponents are 42; the opposition is 42; the abscessions are 0; white, 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u23	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next up to the popular Euscal Group-Ciudadnos's full correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters are 33; the opponents are 42; the opposition is 42; the abscessions are 0; white, 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u24	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. And finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the U.S.A. patriots in the whole area that the teams present. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 34; the abstainations, 0; white, 0.1,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u25	So, it's been accepted as an integer correction. Second point on the subject list: "The proposition as a parlamentary group of Podemos-IU together, concerning the beginning of the settlement of the Euscadian Wolf, in order to transpose the protection and preservation of the wolves. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mrs. Podemos-IU is represented and defended by Mrs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u26	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, together with the outlaws, to draw up a wolf management plan within six months." It looks like I'm making a presentation of our motion, but it's not like that. This motive was defended here by Joseph Louis Anda, member of the Social Party in the year 2007. It's been 15 years, and that's what we're still doing today. Still, today, we're not approved to protect the wolf. Why 15 years and now bring back this subject? What happened? Well, if we look at the regulation, we have here a law of the State, the law of the Natural Force, which has a royal decree, which gives a catalogue of lists, which are said to be protected by animals. It is true that in this catalogue the wolf, the wolf of the North, is not particularly protected. But next to it, we have the law of Euskal Autonomia Er memberia, in which the wolf, its wolf, is considered as an animal with special interest, which demands a plan, a plan of management. Thus the law of the people gives this order. And on the other hand, if we look at the regulation of the State, where the wolf of the North does not yet appear, the State has a commission with its autonomy brothers, in which the wolf, the whole of the peninsula, was admitted to protect the wolf, and also to give it the highest degree of protection; that is to say, to say, as an animal on the verge of disappearing. And this supposes that it is impossible to hunt, and that, of course, we must form a plan, in order to protect the wolf. So we know that EAJ voted against it. But soon, before it's too late, the law will be admitted, in which the wolf will protect himself in the highest degree, and to form that plan which will be necessary. What does this mean, not only looking at the future, but looking at the future law? Today, if we look at the local regulations, if we look at our legislation, then, if we don't admit the plan, it's not the law. That's what happens here. In other words, in Euskadi, by failing to approve the wolf management plan, for wolf protection, the law is being breached. It is therefore surprising that, when we presented this initiative today, the PNV is presenting us with an amendment proposing two things: on the one hand, rather than insisting or accepting that work be done on this plan, what we are being asked to do is a proposal to create a working table, a working table that only seems to want to delay the work on the adoption of this plan. But beyond that, this amendment includes another issue, which is the following: they want to skip the law, they want to skip the obligation to approve this plan, in accordance with Article 16.1 of the Habitats Directive, which sets out certain exceptional measures not to protect the species, such as the understanding that the species poses a threat to extensive livestock farming and the general interest. That is to say, of the whole European standard, the only article they want to accept is, precisely, the exception. Nice way to enforce a law, your exception. But, of course, if we look, moreover, at this article 16, of course, it indicates that exceptionality can be accepted when there is no other satisfactory solution and when, moreover, this does not mean harming the populations of the species. In fact, in addition, a report should be sent to the European Commission, to Europe, in which... And Europe should decide whether the exception is justified. And do you really believe that Europe was going to justify it, that it was going to admit it? What would you understand in Europe that half a dozen wolves is a threat to being able to apply an exception to the directive? Or do you think you'd accept it, when you haven't even drawn up a management plan? There is no solution, no solution has been proposed, except beats to kill the wolf. And which causes injury, moreover, this exceptionality is obvious, because any wolf crossing the border in Euskadi was to be annihilated. Do they really believe that they would accept this exceptionality in Europe? We must not forget ourselves and, of course, above all, you must not forget that there is life beyond this Parliament and the absolute majority of this Parliament. There is also Europe, there are European courts, and that must always be taken into account. What about the wolf? Why is this wolf mania? The wolf is coming. It's true. The wolf is like fear. And even in all the children's matters, he's always a wolf... It's true Benito was then put into the wolf so he could play against it. But that pretty face of the wolf Benito has no such extension, and really the wolf is bad. The wolf imagines evil. Strange, because when we think of the euscal and euscal patterns, we are very naturalists, when we think of them tigers and gorillas and such things, but in remote forests we are very fond of protection. But then, when we come here and look at the wolf, the wolf is bad, very bad. And he's so mean that you have to kill him. That is the only management plan that seems to support this Basque government, which is to annihilate, to kill wolves with bullets, showing, by the way, the same environmental sensitivity that Trump or Bolsonaro may have in their respective places. Of course, when we are talking about milkshakes, we also have to talk about hunters. We are going to talk a little bit, a little bit, though, about the hunters, this privileged class that, in the midst of the pandemic, has been able to skip the confinement thanks to the Basque Government and the deputies having asked it, because it seems that, beyond the pandemic by covid, we have had a pandemic for wild boars as well and cobras. But, of course, why do we have overpopulation of wild boars, for example? Isn't it that the only predator they have we're not protecting? If there's no wolf, there's more wild boars. And we don't have to forget either when the Álava Foral Diputation almost allowed a beat to be made to kill the only wolf in Álava; a wolf, but kill him as well. By the way, another fact, speaking of hunters: how many dead – I don't know if they know –, how many accidents and deaths caused the hunting accidents in 2020? Only in 2020? 51 people killed by hunting accidents and 600 people injured. How many dead or wounded are – people, let's say – for wolf attacks? Zero. In any case, it is true that when it is defended that the wolf must be killed, it is defended in the name of the interests of the Basque farmers. Extensive livestock, sheep are in danger. But, well, let's talk about livestock, because it's the object of protection. Basically, the whole wolf problem is reduced to this issue. And it is true that the existence of the wolf is a problem for farmers. You can't deny it. But, of course, the question is not to pose a dilemma or to have to choose between livestock and wolves; the question is to make farmers, that livestock can coexist with the wolf. That is the real end we would have to pursue from the institutions. And then let us listen to the cattlemen; what are the cattlemen who need us telling us? Well, of course, the first thing they tell us is that the prices of their products are below, they're on the floor and they're not just giving them to cover production costs. So, if this is one of your most serious problems, one of your main problems, why don't we talk more about free trade treaties than PNV, PSOE and PP, by the way, vote in favour of Europe? This free market assumes that our farmers have to compete with other countries, with lower wages and with no environmental control. Why do we have to talk about the wolf when these low prices are so much more trouble for farmers? And in any case, if we also talk about the wolf and talk about the coexistence of livestock with the wolf, if we listen to them, what are they telling us? Well, what the farmers are telling us is that it is necessary to professionalize extensive livestock. We are told that more shepherds, mastines and corrals are needed to ensure that cattle are safe at night. We are told that financial aid is needed for wolf attacks, aid for each dead cattle head, aid for miscarriages caused by stress or aid for veterinary services in the event of injuries. They're telling us that we need help with the maintenance and feeding of the mastines. We are told that they need help installing corrals or shelters to keep livestock at night. Has any of these initiatives been approved? That is to say, when the PNV amendment is thinking of benefiting from the exceptionality of Article 16 of the European directive, how is it going to be explained to the European Commission that we need this exceptionality because there is no satisfactory solution, when it turns out that none of these things have been done and even – before I said it too – there is this wolf management plan? Moreover, it turns out that here is one of the few places where you can see the wolf, even there are villages and parks where the wolf can be a source of tourist income, because it allows us to see it. In fact, if we accept this amendment, I do not know if the wolf is the enemy of the farmer, but, of course, the PNV is the enemy of the wolf. Otsoari kasu egingo bagenio, berak esango liguke: "baptatorela PNV". Delay the management plan. How long? How long are we gonna delay him? In 2007 we had the Socialist Party calling for this wolf management plan. Let's not waste any more time. It is time to start drawing up this plan, with all the agents: the farmers yes, and all the environmental associations too; and without forgetting, moreover, that we are obliged, we are obliged by law to draw up this management plan. The working table is not the solution. There may be a working table, but work while this management plan is also being drafted. A management plan, not annihilation. Controlling populations through beats has to be the last alternative, and only when all the others have not been enough. That is why, for all this which I am saying, we are presenting today this GNP, this initiative, to initiate and approve the wolf management plan as soon as possible, in coordination with the outside parliaments and through participation forums in which all stakeholders, including environmental associations, are included. We also call on the Basque Parliament to urge the Basque Government to disallow any measures to control populations, such as hunting bats, which are granted by the outlaws, since the wolf is included as a protected species both in the Basque catalogue and in the Spanish catalogue. We're legally bound. Let us not delay what is inevitable any longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u27	Thank you, madam. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, Mistto. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The wolf does not always involve fear; it also represents a good turron and does not give any fear. That said, a silent force runs through Europe, a force that finds no opposition: green force, naive ecology. An ecologicalism that is concerned with drowning our primary sector by making it unviable, either in the agricultural sector, imposing restrictions on the use of plant protection products and establishing unmatched regulations in the rest of the world, or with livestock farming, marking our livestock farmers with very high demands that make the result of their work at a very high cost. And yet, here is the paradox: Europe maintains trade agreements with the rest of the world that accept products that do not comply with these regulations, products that are therefore more competitive and that drown the primary sector without remedy. Now, in the midst of this stalemate, in the self-imposed punishment of Europe, a Europe that benefits those of the north and leaves us at the foot of the horses, we find the protection of the wolf, the protection to the right and sinister. A protection that is limited to that, to protect, which is very good, but leaves the farmer defeated, having to beg aid for the death of animals that do not always charge, forcing them to live from subsidies until they understand that the end they have reserved is another, that of abandonment of production. Dear farmers, all the parties in this House, except Vox, support what you have certainly heard a lot about: the 2030 Agenda, an agenda marked by ecology and which aims at the end of meat consumption, impose a way of life – yours – at the cost of giving up everything we have. They'll have us in front of them. And it's that you can protect the wolf, yes, but not with 17 different autonomic plans, because the wolf doesn't jump in Basque, Spanish, bable or Catalan. It is only from the national point of view, with a common control strategy, that this problem can be addressed, and that biodiversity does not understand borders of any kind, much less autonomous ones. Since Vox, we've had it very clear. Our farmers, first; respect for their work; respect for their profession; and above all, let them earn money to survive, which is the only thing they ask for.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u29	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u30	President, ladies and gentlemen. In politics, ideas, initiatives host philosophy, they host content, but they also host dimension. And I hope that the debate we are having in this House, the debate we are doing on this issue, will have the dimension of this House, the dimension of what the wolf represents in Basque politics, and, therefore, what we must, we can, we want to do from here. It is true that from this House we can speak politically in the dimension we want, of course, but I suppose it is not so much a question of making a debate of adherence to the political initiative that is being made by the Spanish Government and the Congress of Deputies, but to the dimension that we must give here, in what the wolf represents here, in the steps that have already been taken here and in which we should take. And, as explained in the Elkarrekin Podemos initiative, until 4 February this year the wolf was included in the Spanish catalogue of endangered species, and this only affected the wolf populations south of the river Duero. From this date on, this cataloging increases, and then, in that draft order for the protection of the wolf, throughout Spain things begin to change. Since March 2020, in the Basque Country, as Mrs Gorrotxategi has also mentioned, the wolf has been included in the Basque catalogue of endangered species of wild and marine flora and fauna in the category of special interest; therefore, by its own decision in the Basque Country, it already achieves a certain protection, although this protection may have differences with other protections, such as the one that is being discussed in the background. These two legal provisions require addressing the situation of the wolf in Euskadi and, of course, call for the completion of the wolf management plan, as proposed by the initiative and also by the amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups. It is true, as Mrs Gorrotxategi has said, that there is a nuance in relation to whether the plan needs to be presented directly or whether, as is being addressed everywhere, this issue, which seems to unleash many passions and many encounters and disagreements, also needs broad reflection and participation from the whole. Because it is not about winning in this matter, it is about convincing, and, as it is about convincing, it is about trying to get the parties concerned to agree, and that requires a little more debate, a little more dialogue than the government's own initiative, drawing up a management plan and presenting it to this House. The debate, of course, points out that it will be complex, since it is not yet clear, moreover – and that is why I was talking about the dimension – how many wolves we have in Euskadi, how many we have in Euskadi, where they are, what is their level of settlement, whether there are herds or not, and to what extent it is necessary to strengthen their presence, because we should also discuss this. And we should discuss why the wolf is considered an irreplaceable animal as a regulator of the natural balance in the forests and habitats it occupies: it intervenes in the spread of diseases in the herbivorous species and helps to balance the number of individuals. The superpopulations, like the one mentioned here today: we had wild boars visiting Vitoria; until now they were walking around, but they are already in Vitoria, they have come down to shopping, and their possibilities to access the food of all the animals that are inside the fauna..., well, then, the wolf also plays a balancing role there. And, besides, I believe that this part, let's say that more science, nobody discusses it; therefore, there is already a first element that I think can agree with us. However, the question of more complexity before the goodness of the wolf, that some, moreover, even place them as an element of tourist demand and of extraordinary economic generation, and set themselves as an example even some peoples and are quoted to the mayors to say yes, that in their people there is a lot of tourism in relation to the wolf... But, well, beyond these kindnesses that arise in relation to the wolf, what we should ask ourselves is how many specimens are needed for each geographical area to make this wolf profitable, because, in fact, in the Basque Country we do not know if we have one or two or at least between four and six, we do not know whether we have a herd or not – which seems not to be – we do not know if it is coming and going, whether it comes out and enters the beautiful parts of the Basque Country. Man, think that the good balance against certain diseases, think that the balance against the regulation of fauna, for example, in relation to the massing of species, as is the case with the wild boar, think that one or none, between four and six and without herd, this represents an element of regulation of our ecosystems, because, in the end, it is not logical, and therefore, as set out in Article 16.1 of the European Habitats Directive, there can be exceptional measures when assessing the risk that it means having a wolf – or some more than one – its advantages, the damage it generates; therefore, its economic, social framework in relation to nature, etc. This is what is proposed in the amendment to the European Habitats Directive. Mrs Gorrotxategi came up with a bit of a problem, saying: hey, do you think this is going to be approved in the European Union? Well, that is more than that; that is to say, what you were proposing is that the European Union applies this directive in a very secure way for nature conservation, then there is no problem in us including it in this matter. The true reflection of Article 16.1 in this amendment is that we shall see what is the contribution of the wolf in the Basque Autonomous Community and whether or not its settlement is necessary, whether or not its special protection is necessary, whether we need wolves or not in the Basque Country, bearing in mind that this is not Castile and Lion, that it is not Galicia, that it is not Asturias, where, in fact, the wolf can fulfil all those functions that are being proposed, because there are enough herds, enough to work for protection and, moreover, to suggest that there can be a balance between its goodness and the efforts that must be made from other scenarios, such as, for example, the livestock sector, to protect themselves in relation to coexistence. It is therefore clear that the debate is a debate that has an interest, that it is worth keeping open, that it is worth seeking participation and that it is worth looking at from all angles, not just from one angle. Because it is clear that the strategy for the conservation and management of the wolf in Spain is already under way with different and partial treatments, which, moreover, is now about updating. There is a strategy that wants to establish guidelines to conserve, manage and restore viable wolf populations; but, I repeat, viable wolf populations. If that is also the case in the analysis of the situation by the modifications that they want to make or the legal incorporations that they want to make in terms of their protection! It is therefore a question of ensuring, together with this recovery, their long-term conservation, promoting natural recovery, where ecologically and socially reasonable, ensuring their expansion to territories where conflict with livestock uses is scarce and sufficient and adequate habitat exists. All these elements must be taken into account. And, in this task, it is planned to install, implement effective livestock protection systems in a general way in areas of greater conflict with aid from public funds. Work is also being done on compensation and compensation mechanisms for wolf predation on cattle through homogeneous skill systems and fair and agile payments for the affected persons. As can be seen, this is an integral debate, and the aim is to reduce the polarization between competing social sectors. And this, of course, requires time and debate. It wants to protect species, ecosystems, biodiversity. It is absolutely necessary, but, obviously, it is not easy, because there are many disagreements and we must try to attend to them and resolve them. Of course, the debate is super complicated: trying to agree with the wolf, the foal, the cow, the sheep, the ecologist, the hunter..., in short, it is very complicated; and, above all, several political groups: besides the left, to the right. Finally, we are faced with a debate that is practically like a tower of Babel, very complicated. That is precisely why we want to open the debate, to do so with the greatest number of associations and representative organizations that contribute their point of view, that we can make broad consensus and that, in any case, we give this debate the appropriate proportionality, knowing what it represents here and what it should represent in the future.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u31	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mr. Suso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, congressmans, good morning. Mrs Gorrotxategi, the wolf has arrived; here it is. Well, I'm going to focus on the decision of the MITECO State Commission on Natural Heritage and Biodiversity that approved the proposal of the ecological organization Ascel: the listing of wild species under special protection –ESPRE, as I will quote later – of the Iberian wolf. This was done, as you rightly say, on February 4. It cannot be hidden that the decision was made with a small majority of one vote: Melilla. It was adopted in principle by the vote against the Basque Country, Madrid, Andalusia and Murcia, as well as Castile and León, Asturias, Cantabria and Galicia. The latter four autonomous communities currently account for 95% of the wolf's specimens. In addition, Navarra and the Valencian Community gave up voting, arguing the need for greater consensus. It is true that, for the first time, the ministry carries such a proposal without having achieved consensus, especially in those communities that host most of the wolves in the State. With the decision to include the Iberian wolf in the LESPRE, the way is opened for the prohibition of its hunting for the control and regulation of the species, when the Community rules themselves – you have also said so – allow the populations of the wolf to the north of the Duero to be managed directly with kinegetic norms or considering this possibility. Logically, reading his non-law proposition, it is clear that the positioning is identical to that approved in the MITECO. Euskadi has aligned itself with the positions and arguments of Asturias, Cantabria, Castile and León and Galicia, which are autonomous communities that have different political colour, but which house 95% of the state's wolves. Currently, the wolf's presence in Euskadi is punctual. In ecology, a population is a group of individuals of the same species who live in a specific geographical area, who reproduce among themselves and who have little genetic exchange with other populations of the same species. From this perspective, wolves present in the Basque Country, in Euskadi, do not form a population in itself, as the wolf is a species that needs large vital spaces. It can be said that wolves present in our territory are part of the population of wolves of the Cantabrian Cordillera. A wolf can move from his herd 100 kilometers in one day; he can go and he can come back. The last state census conducted in all the autonomous communities between 2012 and 2014 established the existence of some 300 herds, almost all of which were located in the north-west sector of the State. A herd can have between 8 and 20 members; therefore, coming to the lowest midpoint, we can say that in the state, at that time, we could have 3,000 wolves. In Euskadi, the maximum recent proportional size of the wolf was reached in the 2007-2008 biennium, where four herds were detected, in addition to some lone wolves. The work carried out in the last official census in the Basque Autonomous Community, carried out between 2019 and 2020, determines the presence of lone wolves – it may be between Bizkaia and Álava – but not of herds or breeding groups. At this moment, we can highlight the presence of solitary animals, which can move through a wide territorial space. They do not form a herd itself – at least that is believed – but they can appear at any time and, in addition, they can also settle in herds in a short or medium time. The crux of the matter is that an isolated wolf, a lone wolf, can cause extensive livestock damage. I am not going to question the importance of the wolf in the trophic chain, indeed, but, in that trophic chain, its importance lies in the hunting of wild animals. What happens – and here comes the problem – is that it usually prefers to kill sheep or hunt sheep, and in that sense it generates significant damage. In Euskadi, the areas that carry extensive livestock are, in principle – and I say this to you from experience – incompatible for coexistence. I believe that to say that it is possible the coexistence between wolf and extensive livestock is to know little or nothing about the traditional livestock model in Euskadi. Most of the herds of this type of livestock are herds of latxa sheep, whose management is based on the model called transtermitencia: winters pass in the valleys, and, in the summer period, climb to the communal mountain pastures, where they graze freely and extensively. One of the advantages of this activity model is to conserve the extensive mountain pastures that shape the landscapes of these mountains, which is also a priority community habitat, and which are the basis of the Natura 2000 network. Normally, this type of space is given in Álava and Bizkaia, preferably. As I told you, the preferred animal in these pastures is the latxa sheep. The latxa sheep is not a group sheep: it is broken down into the herd into the largest areas of mountain pastures. Therefore, it is much more exposed to the attacks of the wolf or of any honeycomb, since it is easier to attack it, by not exposing itself to the shepherd dogs that guard the herd. I personally have seen many sheep farms disappear that maintained the tradition of extensive livestock farming. The vast majority of them have left the sheep herds because of the wolf's attacks. However, in the face of these situations, the same answers always come from wolf protection advocates: that the public administrations, as you say, establish aid to deal with the damage caused by the species. And I wonder: does anyone work with their greatest dedication, professionalism, for the genetic improvement of animals, for their life model to be the best possible, for financial aid? The answer is no. In this situation, it is impossible to maintain the farms and the continuity and the generational relief. And I said earlier that we have isolated individuals from the wolf, and yet, between 2005 and 2019, the various outlaw administrations have processed 727 files attributed to wolf predation. Damage has also been analysed – because there is a management plan that analyses it continuously – and between 2005 and 2019 there have been wolf attacks on 2,302 cattle, which have been injured, killed or disappeared. 70% of these attacks have been carried out in Alava, and 30% in Bizkaia. Currently, as is known, the Environment Area of the Basque Government approved in February last year the inclusion of the wolf in the Basque Catalogue of Threatened Species, with the category of special interest, based on technical and scientific data that could have led to different conclusions, all with the majority vote against the Advisory Council of Nature Naturzaintza. It is also true that the Department of the Environment concluded that the wolf at all has in Euskadi the consideration of endangered species. It is therefore not appropriate to include them in a category reserved for those species of unlikely survival, if the factors causing their situation continue to act, if not of special interest, worthy of particular attention according to their scientific, ecological, cultural value or their uniqueness. All of this leads us to propose – accepting the views and decisions of the European Union on this matter – that the Basque Government, in joint work with the parliaments, should be the one to set up a working table with the socio-economic actors concerned – including the ecological movements – for the preparation of the management plan. We take, in part, what you point out in your first proposal. In addition, we do include taking into account exceptional measures which are included in Article 16.1 of the Habitats Directive if it is incompatible with the maintenance of traditional livestock farming. And we do so because what you propose in your second proposal is that hunting beats are not allowed. Therefore, we are not talking about that as the management plan, but that is part of the management plan. It is ecology that must prevail, and that is not in contradiction with controlling biodiversity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u33	Thank you, Mr. Suso. Passing over the uncorrected teams to the popular Euscal Group, Mrs. Larre, representative of the Ciudadans, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u34	President, ladies and gentlemen. I take the floor to set my group's position on this non-legislative proposal and the amendments tabled, a proposal which we cannot separate from the precise moment at which we are meeting and the circumstances surrounding it. Because we are all, of course, aware of the background to this debate. The protection of species is progressing. It's more feasible. They achieve better results when accompanied by social and political consensus, especially when it comes to species such as the wolf and other predators, which, in addition to their ecological importance, have an impact on the lives of the goods of the populations in those places where they live. I want to ask you if you have met with the sector, with the livestock; if you have told them what happens to you: that you get up before five o'clock in the morning, rain, thunder or snow, to go and fetch your flock, and what happens when you find it attacked, when you find it scattered, when you find some body of the heads of your flock. We're just talking about his way of life. We are talking about extensive livestock, which is our saint and sign here, in Euskadi. It's just that we can't talk about the wolf without talking about the ranchers. It's just that, in their GNP, they only talk about the wolf, and I think we need to talk about both sides of the coin. It's important. It is important because you cannot recover a species without knowing what the consequences are within what is already settled here. And we have to defend that part that is not included in your GNP: farmers. If the protection of wildlife only carries prohibitions, burdens and losses for those who live with it, the path of protection and its effectiveness will be more random. To be clear, it is essential that the benefits of protecting species, of natural wealth, of well-preserved and restored biodiversity revert to the population. They talked about wolves only hunting for ravens, deer or wild boars, which are their main food. If it was just this, another cock would sing. This means that, despite the survival of the wolf in the Basque Country, or wherever, it cannot fall on the heads of the farmers, their property or their families, knowing, moreover, that, when we speak of extensive livestock farming, as is our case, the complexity and difficulties are extraordinarily greater; and that also extensive livestock farming, the way in which landscape, habitats, the surrounding culture or the native species it breeds, such as latxa sheep, are an important part of our natural heritage. In populated and humanized territories like ours, any conception of defence of the natural environment and of species must take even more into account that principle of population involvement and attention to those who can be directly affected in their livelihoods and in their heritage – in this case, livestock farmers. And, therefore, action must be taken starting with them, so that the continuity of extensive livestock does not remain in question. The Basque Country, in particular, and Spain, in general, are good examples of success in managing and recovering populations of multiple species that a few decades ago appeared to be endangered. It is a permanent effort; it is true. There are exceptions, still precarious situations; there are no lack of threats. But the overall balance today allows us to talk about natural spaces and biodiversity of extraordinary wealth compared to neighbouring countries and the worrying situation of 40 or 50 years ago. And it is the merit of all, but especially of the rural population: of farmers, of farmers, of our farmers, of our farmers, who contribute intensely to the preservation of this natural heritage. Well, despite that experience and lessons we thought had been learned, the Government of the nation, the Sánchez-Iglesias Government, has chosen, in relation to the wolf, to act exactly in the opposite direction: taking decisions without sufficient consensus, by adjusted majorities, even at a high-quality vote, claiming that this strengthens the options for the future of the species as a whole in Spain. Let us be clear: the controversy, the political and social division around conservation is what can most harm the future of a species, even more so the confrontation between the administrations responsible for the protection and management, in particular, of a species such as the wolf, which always, everywhere, generates intense debate, when not passionate. This is how we have lived, also in the Basque Country, since the 1980s. We cannot act worse than the Ministry of Ecological Transition is doing today: it does not contribute to the protection of our natural heritage, it does not give protection to farmers, it does not support the management of the autonomous communities where the wolf lives or it contributes to the objectives of the national strategy of the species. On the contrary: it causes a schism between administrations; it solidivante the farmers, whom it despises and has not taken into account at all; it ignores the experience of those who live, coexist and manage the wolves; it forgets the lessons of several decades in terms of conservation, as I said before. And, not content with it, they intend to give lessons. I believe that the Socialists cannot give lessons in this area. In preparing this debate, I have found some curious things. For example, this action without consensus, from the back to the farmers, to the local population and to the autonomic governments, has not been supported by any administration of the places where the wolf lives and prospers in Spain, none, even by the Basque Country, being like the socialist members of the government; not even by Catalonia, where the wolves have arrived in recent years from Italy, which already inhabit a good part of France and have made an act of presence in the Atlantic Pyrenees, by the way. Is that the way this government acts? I would like to tell you that the Basque Government has done well to oppose a decision which, as has been adopted, does nothing to contribute to the objective proposed and which harms all the parties involved. It is also curious to see what has happened to the wolf in recent years in Spain, because where there are more wolves, in a more stable way and for a longer time it is where the least damage is done to livestock. Something will know, therefore, how to do well the autonomous communities where 90% of the wolves of Spain live: Galicia, Castile and León and the Community of Madrid, without forgetting the management of the Foral Diputación de Álava – I want to highlight this – during the PP governments, led by Ramón Rabanera, who obtained the express recognition of the scientific community in relation to the wolf. It may not be by chance that these communities are communities governed by the People's Party or the People's and Citizens' Party. Maybe it's not random. I'm saying because there are places where there were wolves 40 years ago and there are no wolves today. Socialist self-governments, which were impassive at the extinction of the wolf, today give lessons to those who have made their survival possible. I speak of Extremadura in the 90s, or Andalusia, where there is no record of the wolf's survival since 2013, after decades and decades of socialist governments. In Euskadi, in recent years, the Ararteko, the judges and the Basque Government itself have determined a situation that has little to do with the rest of Spain, but in which, by the pandemic or whatever, it gives the impression that there is a certain paralysis, where the most forgotten are, once again, the cattle farmers. And to this there is no right. What do we want in the Basque Country? We want the experiences of Galicia, Castile and León, Madrid. We want ways to act, to prevent, to deal with problems and solutions for livestock in those places where the wolf lives with cattle and has become a first-class economic resource in many different ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Housekeeper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u36	Good morning, head of the table. Thank you. Good morning, everyone. We see that today is a complex subject, and it is difficult to get hold of it, if all the questions which it contains are to be solved in a balanced manner. We think this complex problem requires a quiet and responsible attitude. The decisions which surround it ought to be carefully examined and removed from the greatest agreement. It's vital. The directness of the community catalyzes the wolf as a species of the interests of the Union. The purpose of the right is to support the preservation of the natural habitats of the European States, and of the fauna and flora of the forest. Defines maintenance as follows: that is to say, that a species can continue to be the essential element of its natural habitat for a long time. To this end he considers: that its natural distribution is not limited, that there should be no threat to narrow the future, and that there should be a habitant with which the population should be long enough to maintain its duration. It is evident that the wolf is a fundamental species, both in our biology and even in our culture. According to certain investigations, the species is developing throughout the State and Europe. During the preceding law, in the occurrences of the commissions, some experts and others said: "The wolf is spreading, and that ought to be a pleasure to our biodybert." But with the growth of the wolf, so is the strestimation essential to the preservation of our environment. In our culture, it has deep roots. We believe that the authorities ought to stake a strong stake on the strencundation. It is necessary to guarantee the future of the small family hospitals and exploitations which construct our field-land, not only from the sodium of view, but even from the point of view of suffering. It is impossible to talk about the wolf in Euskal Herria without talking about extensive livestock. And the proposed GNP is not even mentioned. We are talking about a livestock farm that is part of our very essence and whose qualities are finally being defended from Europe. We must not encourage intensive farms with stable animals where production takes precedence over product quality and animal welfare. Some macro-projects that make the delights of the manufacturing and distribution industries, but that generate a great deal of socio-economic and ecological damage, are still being implemented. More and more cattle heads with fewer people managing the territory. Is that what we want? We don't think so. However, extensive livestock farming has been taking care of our landscape for centuries, our mountains; cleaning them with weed, while respecting our ecosystems; and taking care of places that would be impregnable if it were not for their presence. Still, there is more and more distance between rural life and the lives of cities every day, and many people take advantage of the conservation of wild species without considering anything else. In our view, this is not appropriate. From an urban and romantic point of view, we think that food reaches our supermarkets by magic art, and we do not know at all the work that requires its production or under what conditions it is carried out. But on extensive livestock farms they get up and lie down working. It's an absolute dedication. And although most people think that the relationship these people have to extensive livestock farming with animals is merely productive, they are wrong. Animals raised in these livestock are unique: you know who the mother, the father, was; whether they were born alone or in multiple births. You know, if anyone's missing, which one's missing. While the animal is on the farm, it takes care of itself, and when you see these animals suffer, the one who is dedicated to their care suffers. Few people know about this delivery. They are used to watching reports about intensive livestock with little or no animal welfare care that have nothing to do with the extensive livestock we are talking about. Those who engage in livestock are people who love territory, animals, and who make their work their way of life. This is the model we defend. It is a sustainable and indispensable model for the care of mountains and pastures, for the vertebration of rural development, the maintenance of our peoples. It is the guarantee of the quality of the products we eat. If, when we address issues such as today's, we look elsewhere and see this reality, if we do not act responsibly and take action without carrying out a thorough study of the situation in advance, we will be moving away from a sustainable balance, which, in our view, is essential. Let's keep this in mind. The traditional vegetation, independently of the wolf, has other kinds of anxiety and trouble. There are many obstacles which he ought to overcome, and he is in a bad situation at present. The wolf's uncontrolled extension would directly threaten the future of the stestimist who has been injured. For this reason, it is necessary that the balance of these two realities should be the challenge of certain agents and of others. Instead of reflecting on particular interests and opinions, we must examine the threats and options, and choose the measures we are capable of, as has been said before, to obtain the greatest consent. One reality cannot oppress the other and impose its point of view. For the wolf's protection, it would be very dangerous to make haste without caring all the spikes. formulas that have been used so far are no longer available. Some people think the wolf can't limit it, others think it must be determined by control measures. The evil caused by the wolf is to be calculated through indemnization. The cattle, however, do not want them; much less, if the money be removed from the united politics of agriculture. Econokems can't account for the damages of the wolf, and it seems to be under most intentions. It's a complex discussion. For the time being, no one has the answer to all the questions and concerns that arise. Let's begin with the matter as it deserves, care and quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Passing on the answering round, the representative of the Podemos-IU team together. Ma'am, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u38	Thanks again, ma'am. Well, to put some order in this turn of answers, I think there are two kinds of things mentioned here, and then I'd consider one and the other. It was the first time in the construction of a work-table that M. d'Ajuda, or Mr. Suso, has expressed it in this way, and the landlady, who spoke at last, spoke a little in that sense. A work table. Yeah, a work table. It's very good to make a work table. No one denies that we have to set up a work table to see what conditions the wolf is in, how many wolves there are, what are the interests at stake, which everyone participates in. In fact, that is a principle that we too, in our initiative, admit. What happens is that that work table doesn't have to be an obstacle, it doesn't have to be an obstacle to the development of this wolf management plan, which has been going on for 15 years since it was requested here, since it was intended to be here for the first time to be created. It's been years and years since the law broke, because Basque law requires us to have a management plan. In other words, this GNP will require compliance with the law. A work table? Yes, but let us also make a management plan. It is certainly contradictory to speak as an excuse for the non-necessity of this management plan that there are few wolves. Well, and then why so much effort through the amendments to include exceptionality for the serious damage they cause if there are so few wolves? And, in addition, it was also admitted that there could be more wolves in the future. I mean, one thing doesn't take away the other. Are there a few wolves? Well, whoever they are, but our law obliges us to draft a wolf management plan. It was also said: "Of course, this is very complex; it is very difficult; we have to agree on many parts." Sure. And? So, if it wasn't complex, what do we serve for? Why do we need a parliament and a government if we are only going to regulate simple things? Is it not also difficult to agree, for example, on employers and workers? And we regulate, we intervene. Does regular labour rights force us to choose from one another? No, it's about agreeing on competing interests. And that is democracy: recognizing that there is a plurality of interests and that all of them must be harmonized in order to live in peace and harmony. Along with this, another of the things that were said was that this GNP does not mention livestock farmers. Well, it's just that this GNP is from the wolf management plan, it's from the wolf management plan that doesn't exist even when it was supposed to exist a lot of years ago. And of course we've talked to the ranchers. In fact, I believe that the defence I have made of GNP has become quite clear. It's funny how... I don't know if they sometimes believe that..., and I also wanted to refer to Mrs. Larrea when she said that... well, and also Mrs. Etxebarria, as if we hadn't met a rancher or a grasshopper in our lives. I don't know where they think we come from – from Mars?–, in what bubble they think we live when they tell us that we are not able to understand the interests of the entrepreneur or the basercratras. Do you think that in our families there are no entrepreneurs, basers and everything? We don't come from any extraordinary planet. We're from here, from this society. And of course we've talked to the ranchers. In fact, we have spoken so much to the farmers that we have gathered their demands and expressed them here. And that's what it's about. And I believe that this is precisely what it is about: reconciling the interests of the wolf, the protection of the wolf and the livestock. And, as far as I can see, we are the only political force that really defends both sides in conflict. We are the only political force that is trying to insist on the need to reconcile the interests of protection of the wolf and also of farmers. I have to say that I had hoped, by their tradition, for their previous actions, that both the PNV representative and the People's Party representative would find this initiative wrong. I am more surprised by the position of both the Socialist Party and Bildu; of the Socialist Party, because it goes against what is defending its own party at state level. It would not be a bad thing if, from time to time, he took his head off and brought the opposite to his partner in government. It wouldn't be bad. And I'm also surprised by Bildu's attitude. And this is a bit like you: second-rate ecology. That is, a party that claims to be ecological and does not defend that we need a wolf management plan, so it does not leave them in a very good place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u39	Thank you, madam. Myst. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u40	Well, it's obvious that it's been too long since the political parties have given themselves up to the green flag on the left, a flag they're waving trying to get everyone else into it. I will tell you, Mrs Gorrotxategi, that I do not know if you have spoken to the hunters. I don't think so. And I don't think it is because there is a very common position on the part of your party, which has to do with the criminalization of the hunter, as you have done here today. Hunting is seen as a stealth activity by definition. But nothing further from reality. The hunters – let you know – are the ones who care most about the environment, those who know best how the mountains are, the fields, if there are pests, if there are no pests. When it snows, Mrs Gorrotxategi, if you go to the mountain, you will see the hunters carrying food to the animals. I haven't seen any ecologists, at that time, over there – I'm telling you too. Hunters are a solution for our camp, to control the wild boar, to know how the wolf's situation is. They're the ones who know best. They are – and have always been – an aid, an element on which to support us and which serves us to tackle more rigorously all the conservation measures of our environment. So, please, I ask you to treat them with the dignity, decorum and respect you deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u41	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u42	President. In politics there are often two things that are done, in my opinion, quite unwisely. One of them is this of making a difference, a very common thing in all political parties. We have to make a difference. And since we have to make a difference, we sometimes lose the perspective of what we are discussing, because we have to make a difference. And the second is usually that of, once you have to make a difference, not listen to others, because we already come scripted and don't listen to others. And that is when we do not find, in the debates, a certain balance in the political plurality that may exist in a parliament. For this reason, there are things that sometimes have a lot of value and that nothing happens by accepting them and recognizing them. And when, in this rostrum, in a matter as thorny as this – which is –, with so much social contradiction – which has it – someone suggests that there has to be balance, that there has to be proportionality, that there has to be dialogue, that it has to mature this matter more, whoever says so, it is important. These were the last words of Mrs Etxebarria's speech. And I think it is important, because here in this House, except for your last words, Mrs Gorrotxategi, which are probably the effect of what I have just said that sometimes it is not heard, I have not heard in any intervention by any political group saying no to the wolf or saying no to livestock. In other words, in the different political positions that exist here, we all seem to think that we need to find a balance between the defence of nature and the defence of the economy. And, in fact, that's why no one says no to one thing and no one says no to another. Clearly, in politics it is much easier to preach than to give wheat. And, of course, when, for example, we decide not to fossil energies – which we all say – when we propose to switch to renewable energies, it is already very complicated. When we say yes to defend nature, when we already have to take steps to see how we defend it, the thing is already more complicated, and some get into partial trenches. And some say, "I want to be the hunter's advocate," "I want to be the farmer's advocate," "I want to be the wolf's advocate," but exclusively. And that's what keeps us from moving forward. And that is where the political virtue of the proposal we have made here today, the Basque Nationalists and Basque Socialists group. To say that this is a debate that it needs, because of the contradictions it generates, including in the political parties, except with the People's Party, because the People's Party only has to throw into the heap, into the mugollon...; that is, the most important thing here is to make a criticism of the Government and the Socialist Party. So, well, to the extent that the important thing of any debate is to criticise the government and the Socialist Party, for indeed everything is worth anything. But the debate here is a much more delicate, much more complicated debate, and therefore we say: "We must catch all parties; we must catch conservationists, environmentalists, farmers, politics, institutions, parties, and we must try to agree that, in fact, something will have to be left on the road if we want to preserve nature." And, if we understand that the wolf, like other species that are also at risk, is a balance for nature, because, as with energy, so that people do not get away with climate control, or, at least, participation in the climate or participation in the defense of nature so that the future is not an environmental chaos, a climate chaos, because obviously we have to make decisions. And, in those decisions, of course, we have to agree or try to bring them closer to the sectors we are facing, or more or less agree. And that takes time. That requires that we engage, that we complete the management plan and that, of course, we see that, in that proportionality and complexity that the debate has, those exceptionalities that arise must also be studied. Because, indeed, if an animal species in the Basque Country produces us a remarkable benefit, it will have to be protected and defended. If that animal species is insignificant and the only thing that produces us is depredation and economic damage, it will also have to be valued. I am not judging it, but I am putting it in the debate. Of course, who believes that he alone is an environmentalist, that he alone has the right position, that the only one who defends humanity is he, in fact, appears to mark a position and needs to hear no one.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u43	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mr. Suso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u44	Well, I'll make it clear to you, in principle, our position. If we want a management plan, of course, and we want the participation of all socio-economic groups, including environmentalists. Let him be clear about that. But I also tell you one thing: we have had management plans about the wolf, not those that surely mark the law, but we have had in all the competent administrations since about the year 90. And I can assure you that because part of them were my responsibility. Therefore, management plan yes, but with the widest possible participation. Between you and me, between your group and mine, there is only one element that separates us, and it is the compatibility of traditional livestock with the wolf. When I refer to compatibility in Euskadi, I am not thinking that there are occasionally some lone wolves in our mountains, but rather in the establishment of a kind of herds settled, as we have suffered in different periods, which have led to a bloodbath to our cattle farmers impossible to endure. Because the wolf is not in danger of extinction in the state, nor in Europe. There are said to be about 15,000; of them, about 3,000 in the State. Most of them are in Romania; everything has to be said. There are some in Denmark, there are some in Belgium, some more are now spreading in France, but really the two most important states in Europe that have the wolf are Spain and Romania. In Euskadi, the presence of the wolf is punctual. But, if it is included in LESPRE, the situation changes fundamentally, because it may be impossible to coexist with the traditional livestock model that has been discussed so much, even by other political groups. That is why I wonder: should we understand that the wolf has a conspicuous right to return to all those territories in which he was ever present in his history? Here about 80 years ago he wasn't here, until his appearance. Is this a natural and pre-eminent right over other general interests or public functions of the territory? Is not the proper balance between different uses and general interests regulated from the planning of the territory, by regulating those involved in conflicts of interest between the public and the private? Would it be possible to limit and act the presence of the wolf in certain regions? Do we want tensions and conflicts with the human presence to set the limit of wolf expansion? Or do we think it advisable to carry out some planning and habitat suitability studies to house stable wolf populations? Surely, you will answer the questions one way and I will surely answer the questions another. I, in any case, can tell you what my experience is in wolf management and in managing this problem. I was eight years in the Álava Diputation, and at that time I was responsible for livestock, also agriculture. There were a lot of wolf attacks. We did a wide study to get to know the species, counting on the major specialists in the field, who are still working in Euskadi. We had forest day care with extensive knowledge of the wolf. We put in place aid to cover livestock insurance, and as this was not effective because insurance stopped doing the policies, we apply direct aid when attacked. I myself went to Leon to collect two mastines that the Lion's Diputation gave us at those times so that we could incorporate them into our flocks, which then, moreover, extended. Then, the mastines also gave rise to complaints from citizens who said they were annoying when they went to the mountain. The mastin, in addition to managing your food... Because, of course, if one were here, then it would touch his back, right now, at this point – they eat a lot. It's hard to manage them, but they never mess with people; they only care for what the cattle are. But we also had problems. In conclusion, the coexistence between the farmer and the wolf is impossible. And the implementation of exceptional measures is inevitable at times, of course. And that's what I'm telling you, because, as I told you, at some point we had to apply those exceptional measures. The only thing that has changed, as I said in my first intervention, is that many farms have disappeared, and that is the most serious part, and that is also the loss of natural habitats in mountain pastures. Forty years ago there were days on the water. All who were there were environmentalists, but there was a farmer here, from Vitoria, and, paraphrasing a famous saying, he said: "To the villager and the sparrow, with perdigo." And he asked, "And the sparrow why?". I also ask now: wolf, protection, and farmer what? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u45	Thank you, Mr. Suso. Euscala Popularo-Ciudadnos's representative. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u46	Thank you. One thing is clear: on this issue, the responsibility to be late and bad is, as in the previous one, the responsibility of the Government in the area of renewables. Legality is clear, and we know it. The development of a framework, of a management plan that provides security for all when acting; legal certainty so that justice or Ararteko do not have to question the decisions of the Administration; security for farmers, so that they can face the investments necessary to face their day to day. The compensation money cannot come out of the CAP. The payment of the actual amount of the damage suffered by the farmers or the cost to be incorporated for best practices in grazing or in the safety of the livestock has to come out of a negotiation. We do not have that framework today, because you are long overdue and do not seem willing to change, because you are now doing what you want to do and are presenting us with an amendment without clear commitments and without deadlines to agree with socio-economic actors. I don't know if the scientific community or ecological groups fit that description. An amendment which is a kick in the face of a PNL from Podemos, which forgets farmers or includes them in interested parties. I repeat: without the farmers, against the farmers, to the detriment of the farmers, any action is doomed to failure. That is why we believe that there is no real will for dialogue and agreement, because neither the proposing group nor the Government are willing to put all the cards on the table or to face all the aspects of a complex reality and to sit down to reach agreements, knowing – as we see in this very debate – that the only alternative to the agreement is the flagrant illegality or abandonment of farmers to their fate. The wolf is in the mountains; the amazing thing is that in the offices there is no willingness to approve and develop a plan, a frame of reference that guarantees both the compliance with the legality and the future of extensive livestock farming in Euskadi. Even so, knowing and going through the history of what has happened with a plan, in this regard, we are going to give a vote of confidence to the gentlemen of the Government, to the parliamentarians who support the Government, and we want to think that they are willing to rectify. That is why we will support your amendment as a whole. But we believe it outlines the best path with the answer to the future of the farmers, for their maintenance and the possible wolf. It makes me very funny, because I wish and believe: what will happen to the bear? On time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Housekeeper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u48	Thank you again, ma'am. I will tell you, in order to answer your remark, that I do not want to say, in any way, that we do not want or do not need a plan of management; we have not said that. What I have said has been, that we must first make a profound examination, and that the greatest agreement between all the agents must be sought. That's all I said. However, for this little disagreement, I find it rather ugly to say that our party is following you in the degree of cosologicalism. I didn't know we were in a race or a contest, but, well. Perhaps now, in my turn, when I explain the meaning of the vote, you'll understand our position better. The other proposal of Podemos-IU appears to us to be full of haste. The other proposition, as well as the current proposition, runs into a state of oppression. This "to be able to sleep" on the first point appears to us to be indisputable. It seems as if he wanted to end it at once, to shut himself up, without doubting anything else, without looking directly at the possible evils and the situation. And we don't think that's the right attitude. On the other hand, the art of management is at the present moment the jurisdiction of the aldunities, and the almonds have a meaning in the management of the wolf. And we expect it to be like this later on. The jurisdictions of every organization ought to be respected, and in this other proposition of law does not reflect that respect. In fact, the "desautorizar cualquier medica de Control de poblativeions" seems to us to be inappropriate to us. Indulgements, today, have a right to do management plans. They are the ones who best adapt themselves to the reality of each country. In this matter, as in other matters, co-ordination is necessary, but we should respect the independence of each of us. Our team hasn't made any corrections. As I have said in the first words, no one has the answer to all the concerns that arise from the subject. We don't have the magic formula right now, but we'd like it, but we don't have it. We want to be careful, and, before any planning is proposed, we will examine the situation and push it to reflection. This appears to us to be inconsistent with the other proposal of Podemos-IU. In the correction introduced by the eubertists to the Basque Socialists, there is at the first point a process of discussion between certain agents and others, and the co-ordination of the aldunities. At the second point, the intention of protecting the traditional cattle is to say that all the resources which offer the rules of the habitats will be stocked. This second point neither gives nor rejects measure. It is said that all the resources, or all the possibilities, which are available to ensure the future of the strencism, will be examined, and it seems to us proper. But only with correction do we think it's not enough. I'm worried about the management that's been doing this thing all the time and the paper that's got to be played from now on. For when the wolf had nearly completed the process, as a species of special interest, they did not manage the care and uneasiness of some and others, nor did they create any particular tables, nor excite any reflection. The cares of the agents and the claims of the people remain as they are. Following the decision I've made, it's still for the dandroids to complete and develop their management plan. We'd like to have plans of management that contain one and another's views and interests, but we'll see what this process gives. We believe that respect for the jurisdictions and jurisdictions of the agents is indispensable, and in the last decisions of the wolf they have not been sufficiently assured. It's going to keep an eye out for the steps that go on from now on, and the management plans are co-ordinated, and what we know from now on. And so, even in the vote of correction, we're going to forget. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. After discussion, we'll vote together the original text of the proposition as well as the Podemos-IU. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; the votes are 75; the supporters 6; the opponents are 69; the abstations are 0; white ones; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u50	So, not allowed original text. After that, we'll vote for the Miststo team's full-line correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; the votes are 75; the supporters 1, the opponents 68; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u51	So it's not accepted. And finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the U.S.A. patriots in the whole area that the teams present. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting were 43; 75; the supporters, 47; the contrary, 7; the abscesssations 21; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u52	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "The other proposition of the Popular Group of Euscal-Ciudadans as a parlamentary group, the Natural Place of Gastei Mountains upon the name of Natural Park. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr Barri, who represents the Basque Popularo-Ciudadnos, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. Lehendakari, Vice-Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Well, this initiative wants to draw attention to a need, a need already identified in time. Let us remember that on September 28, 2012, in the City Hall of Vitoria, in full, all the groups asked for maximum protection to the Vitoria Mountains through the declaration of the Vitoria Mountains as a natural park; here is the historical declaration. Of course, people or movements had come a long time ago to talk about that need. But, in any case, that was a great political agreement and a historic moment; moreover, at a very important time for our province, for Vitoria and its municipality. But the contrary position of the Basque Government years later, in 2014, and the fact that the consequences that it may entail not protecting the whole of space have led us to bring this non-legislative proposal, since this House, since the Basque Government is the biggest or the main responsible in what has to be the protection of the natural space; the protection, moreover, that requires all this natural space, the Vitoria Mountains, of what we are talking about. We have always said that we will do everything in our power to protect this natural environment from environmental, urban, energy, electrical or other threats. Vitoria's sign of identity – from Vitoria, because Vitoria is not only a city; Vitoria is a large municipality – is an ambitious, modern and determined environmental policy, and you can't throw down the work of so many years or probably put it at risk. And now there are other issues, but the insistence on exploring gas, which can lead to gas exploitation, can be an important step backwards in an ecological and environmentalist reference of this city, of this municipality, of Vitoria-Gasteiz. Moreover, being Green Capital is a job of the administrations, of course, but of all the Victorians: that of having become the European capital of the environment, which means being the capital of the world of the environment, and we want to continue taking steps in that direction. Victorians and Victorians and their institutions have a responsibility and we also have to set an example. That is the fundamental element in complicated issues such as this but which require responsibility. We have already worked in the past also for this declaration of nature park that we ask for in the initiative. They have also done so from the Basque Government, and we certainly want that work to be resumed and not reduced to the protection, as is currently the case, of that very partial, partial protection which is now taking place. And what we need to talk about is the qualities of a space, of the space of the Vitoria Mountains, of that natural environment, of that natural space that we are talking about. It is intended to protect the more than 11,000 or 12,000 hectares – the reports speak of this number of hectares – and to protect not only those regulated in the special conservation area of Montes de Vitoria, which is understood by the Basque Government and some other institutions, which is decidedly insufficient, but the whole, which is what we want: the whole of the natural space Montes de Vitoria. And, of course, this group doesn't bother us with gas. It bothers us with gas in the mountains of Vitoria and in the municipality of Vitoria-Gasteiz, for the characteristics we have spoken about. Gas is a hindrance to the European environmental capital, in this case; and it is also an essential element to put that in reference to the declaration of a singular space, in which it is recognized by all the need for it to be a natural park, a space of special protection. That is why the step that took place in 2010 when, on 12 February, the Environmental Adviser signed at that time, Pilar Unzalu, to whom I see sitting in that seat and to whom I send a memory of immense affection, signed an order, the Order of 12 February 2010 of the Environmental Adviser, Territorial Planning, Agriculture and Fisheries, which initiates the procedure for the elaboration and approval of the Plan for the Management of Natural Resources in the area of the Mountains of Vitoria, which is aimed at the creation of this natural park. From there, many steps were taken by the department, the Environmental Adviser, and, in this regard, the bases for the management, use and management of the area of the Montes de Vitoria and the proposal for the drafting of the PORN were approved and commissioned by natural resources consultants. And it was very clear what that report said. In 2005, to make some history, the Centre for Environmental Studies (CEA) of the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz prepared a proposal, within its municipal scope, for the declaration of Montes de Vitoria as a natural park. In 2009, the Environment and Biodiversity Service of the Department of the Environment of the Provincial Council of Álava makes a proposal for a delimitation for the declaration of natural park, which exceeds the municipal scope of Vitoria-Gasteiz; indeed, it affects many other municipalities. Finally, the Department of the Environment, Territorial Planning, Agriculture and Fisheries of the Basque Government, on the approximate proposal for the previous delimitation, published the order initiating the procedure for all this; a step ahead, of course, of the declaration of nature park. This order points out that the area of the Vitoria Mountains said – and that is the fundamental element that supports this declaration or that supports what we claim – that it is one of the areas of greatest uniqueness and environmental interest of Araba, of Álava, and has a great natural potential with a good state of conservation, thus meeting several of the criteria set out in article 10 of the Law of Conservation of Nature, which makes it worthy of its inclusion in the network of protected natural spaces. It is the essential element, and this need is already objectively recognized, prior, of course, to that declaration of natural park, if any, of the category of protected natural space resulting from the procedure, and, in accordance with article 18 of that law, a plan for the management of natural resources for the whole of that area, which plans for the conservation of these areas, determines the legal figures of the areas of affected areas... In other words, a number of very important elements and guidelines for management. Of course, this report commissioned by the Environmental Adviser laid the foundations for the management, use and management of the areas of the Vitoria Mountains as a preliminary step towards delimiting and zoning the territory that, according to the environmental merits, which were there, could be integrated into the network of protected natural spaces of the CAV. That is, that was the fundamental effort that the Basque Government understood that had to be made – and other institutions –: that is, to get the Vitoria Mountains to form part of the network of protected natural spaces of the CAV, that is, to be a natural park. It is quite clear that these reports and these works talked about the PORN, talked about the planning instrument, talked about the objectives in relation to the determination of the territorial scope, the state of conservation, the general limitations to the uses, activities, the extension of territorial boundaries... A number of key issues to take the steps rigorously for that statement. It is also clear that there was talk about the scope, the delimitation of the area of the Vitoria Mountains. It was perfectly defined by the Foral Division of Álava. I mean, I don't have Mr. Otero's or Mr. Casanova's or Mr. Betaño's ability to get posters out here, so I'm not going to do it. It is very possible that Mr Otero will do so. But, well, anyway, there it is, there's the delimitation. This delimitation is, of course, in line with that envisaged in the 2009 proposal of the Diputación Foral de Álava, delimitation for the declaration of natural park of the Vitoria Mountains, the municipal area of Vitoria-Gasteiz and other areas. So it's very clear and it's very well worked, and it's worked very well. And that is what we want to see happen: that we continue to work and that all this work that has been done by the Basque Government, by the Basque Government, by the consultants, by the City Council of Vitoria-Gasteiz is resumed. And the qualification that has given us to Vitoria, because there is only to say that elements such as the project of the Vitoria Mountains, of the natural park of the Vitoria Mountains, have been essential for us to be the European Green Capital, the Green Capital, that is, it has been essential. It is also one of the great steps, along with others, along with the Green Ring, etc., and with the capabilities we have for all that. That is, Vitoria-Gasteiz was Green Capital, among other things, for managing the project to preserve the Vitoria Mountains. And we want to be European environmental capital again in 25 years' time. We want to be and we have to work. And this is an essential element to return to Green Capital within 25 or 15 or 40 years. This is an essential element. And, of course, the spirit of Councilwoman Unzalu's order today is no longer maintained in the Basque Government. And that was a step back. And that is what we must try to correct, in favour of the natural development of an area that has all the essential characteristics to be protected. For all this, the approval of the protected natural space, its inclusion in the Basque network of natural spaces, is essential, as it happens with other natural parks, as it has passed and passes – and it is perfectly understood – with Izki, with Valderejo and with other spaces: Gorbea, etcetera, etcetera. You know them very well. And in that sense, then, there are the qualities necessary for that to continue to happen. We also have precedents in Vitoria-Gasteiz as a green municipality: the precedents of the signing of the Aalborg Charter in 1995; being the first Spanish city – Vitoria-Gasteiz – of Agenda 21 in 1998; the Victorian Green Ring, awarded by the UN, in relation to the defense of sustainable green policy in cities. The essential advances that we have all experienced and that all Victorians and Victorians know, in relation to garbage collection, mobility, air, energy consumption, waste treatment..., must have their continuity in the statement that my group, the People's-Citizens Group, proposes to this House. And that statement is as follows: that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to initiate or, if necessary, resume – the work is already done in large part – the processing of the natural park declaration file on the whole of the natural space known as Montes de Vitoria, in order to guarantee the environmental protection of the area, thus ensuring the natural development of the smaller local entities in the area, as well as the compatibility with the agricultural and livestock activity that its inhabitants develop, which, historically, has fostered the maintenance and good state of conservation of the environment. In other words, this preservation, these environmental characteristics with a perfectly sustainable human activity, must be perfectly intertwined and maintained. As a second point, we propose that the Basque Parliament urge the Basque Government to coordinate and agree with the foral institution and with the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz and the Alaves councils belonging to the area to plans, activities and protective actions that are planned or intended to be carried out in the Monts de Vitoria, so that environmental protection is compatible with respect for existing customs and customs in the management of that area. Also as a fundamental element, in this sense, there is some amendment which, well, seems to us to complete what we can say or to define it better. And, well, in that sense, then, you're grateful. The third point is that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, the Foral Diputación de Álava and the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz to suspend the granting of any licences or the processing of plans and projects for actions in the field of the future natural park, while their declaration is being processed. We are seeing that there are threats, that there are threats in relation to the rating of that area, in relation to its sustainability; threats in the future of a protected natural space, of a natural park. And in that sense, then, we do not want those threats to materialize. And, in that sense, we do that approach, as we have done in other institutions. We have to say that Vitoria is more than a city: Vitoria is a large municipality. And, if it was Green Capital – I say again – it was, among other things, for the project of the Vitoria Mountains, for that project oriented towards the future. A number of amendments have been tabled. The amendment tabled by Elkarrekin Podemos says virtually the same thing. It focuses more on the figure of the Natural Resources Management Plan, that is, of the PORN, to end in what is the declaration of the natural park. So, in that sense, we have no problem. We have made a compromise amendment; if our compromise falls, we will vote in favour of it. And, in relation to the amendment of EH Bildu, it is clear that what it does is to complete, define in a somewhat better way; or, well, we too did well.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u54	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u55	Yeah, I'm done right now. And in relation to the amendment of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, then... Then you can accuse me that I haven't contacted them and that I couldn't... I mean, your whole amendment is absolutely against it, that is,...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u56	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u57	... He's a reductionist, so... Others have been given more time, President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u58	Please, time is up. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together represent the Podemos-IU team. Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u59	As has already been said, as has already been said, the processing of this protection figure was already started in Vitoria-Gasteiz in 2005 with the aim of obtaining a natural park. However, 20-25 years later, we are still discussing the same subject. At that time – it was 2009 – it was when the PSOE was ruling and Patxi López took pictures with the work helmet and in favor of fracking in the territory. During this government, in 2010, the procedure for the elaboration and approval of the Plan for the Management of the Natural Resources of the Mounts of Vitoria, as a step prior to its declaration of protected natural space, was initiated; that is, without concreteizing the category of protection, either natural park – which was then voted on – or another. Two years later, the draft of the Ordination Plan was to be submitted to public information. At that time, it was time to collect the improvements, the allegations of local entities, the sectors concerned, associations and environmentalists. But mysteriously, the procedure ended there: neither the public information process was completed nor the Ordination Plan was approved nor declared a national park. And the draft plan was kept in a drawer. When the PNV returned to the Government, at the end of 2012, it did not draw the plan from the drawer where it was kept. Instead, it created a much smaller protection figure. The new protection system that was put in place at this time also did not take into account the draft of the Ordination Plan. That first draft of the Planning Plan did have a study and a diagnosis of the resources of biodiversity and natural values, and established a number of criteria and limitations for economic activities and infrastructure, all with the main purpose of protecting and restoring the biodiversity of the territory. In March 2013, as Mr Barrio reminded us, the vice-counsel for the Environment announced in parliamentary committee the intention to reactivate the declaration of protected natural space in the area of the Mountains of Vitoria, which was supposed to continue with the processing of the Plan of Ordination. And yet, to this day, it is unclear why the procedure was stopped and why the processing of the plan was not completed. When a procedure which seeks to protect nature from certain economic activities is suspended, the reason for this is that business takes precedence over the environment. And, in today's plenary session, what does the Government propose to us? To give folder to the Plan of Ordination, to always close this process, taking advantage of the fact that there is absolute majority. And instead, it proposes a small extension of the current ZEC; that is, to continue without protecting most of the Vitoria Mountains. They want to put the plan on record at all costs, because what they're interested in is promoting their business. And what businesses are these that seem to attract so much interest? Well, we're having exploration and exploitation of gas wells or fracking. This PORN could make it difficult for the high-speed train; therefore, there are two projected tunnels passing through the mountains. There are also urban projects, wind farms projects, high voltage, expansion of the center of Zaballa, which already had its problems as well... What is clear is that there are many political reasons not to continue with the plan and only protect 20% of the Vitoria Mountains. This same year, on January 27, 2021, the City Council of Vitoria, through the Elkarrekin, Bildu and PP groups, voted in favour of declaring the Vitoria Mountains as a natural park, in order to prohibit the exploitation of gas that the Basque Government and SHESA intend to do, an issue in which their government partners seem not to be comfortable supporting the PNV either and that both in the City Council of Vitoria and in the Boards of Álava have already positioned themselves against continuing to extract fossil fuels. These are the causes of the climate collapse and biodiversity problems that we are facing as a society, because let's not forget that, just as we are in a health emergency since 2019, Euskadi is also in a climate emergency, and that the best way to protect the climate of the planet, in addition to investing in renewable energies, as we have been talking about, is to take care of our ecosystems and our species. Today, in the Basque Parliament, we had the opportunity to show that we really believe and care about biodiversity, but this is not going to be the case. It is clear that we have decided to bet on business and not on land. But it is that, beyond a business, you should understand that the current pandemic has also reminded us that in ecosystems destroyed by deforestation there is a greater risk of zoonotic viruses. And now, protecting biodiversity has also become a key aspect of health protection. The Director of Public Health and the Environment of the World Health Organization, in recent statements, warned about the risks of deforestation and habitat destruction, as they produce more direct contact between wild and human species, causing transmissions of viral infectious diseases; not only the covid: they have also been given Ebola, HIV or SARS. Moreover, he said that 70% of the last epidemic outbreaks have started with deforestation. The World Health Organization has confirmed that the origin of the virus comes from an animal, not being clear whether it is a pangolin, a mink, a cat or a bat. And it is that in the Vitoria Mountains many types of habitats of community interest coexist, among which we highlight hayds, oak groves and pasture areas. Among the threatened species are different types of birds, amphibians, reptiles and mammals. And, curiously enough, in the mountains of Vitoria we have nine kinds of bats. With this data we do not intend to cause unnecessary alarm or bad omens, but we do want to stress that on many occasions we always see the danger as something remote and that health risks occur in tropical or Asian forests, and that they are spaces where protection and conservation policies must be implemented. But do we have to save the Amazon, and the mountains of Vitoria don't we have to save them? Is it necessary to save the orangutan of Borneo, and the wolf that dwells between Burgos and Vitoria? Let's give value to ours. We have a natural space with huge biodiversity, with multiple animal and plant species with nine different habitats. We are interested in protecting its biodiversity. It is time to conclude what began in 2010 and to approve the Plan for the Management of the Natural Resources of the Vitoria Mountains. It is not the Amazon, but it is our ecosystem and it is our biodiversity, it is our flora and it is our fauna, and it is time to protect what is ours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u60	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u61	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I liked your intervention, Mr. Barrio. Be a little careful, because, of course, one tries to teach posters as CasanovaOtero style; then, he starts to read the speech; and, instead of his classic Alava, he reads us Arabica, in perfect Basque. So watch your back, Mr. Barrio. I'm coming to the real thing now. It seems to me that around the Gastian Mountains there has been a long and broad talk in this Parliament, and once again in the previous law it was agreed to continue with the plan of arranging the natural resources which had been opened, and at last to support the territory of the Gastian Mountains. It was said; it did, it didn't. And I think it's beyond doubt that he's going to go down now, perhaps, to doubt, but, well, we think, it's strange that the wide range of the Gastian Mountains, a range of thirteen thousand acres, must be a protected range of natural nature. These were continents, at least once. The Gasting Mountains were proposed to become natural parks in the year 2005, and in 2012 the first steps of the organizational plan were made, as has been said, incluso. Klaro, Gero, Urkulluren Gobernua... The commander arrived – I was going to say – but, well, the Urkullu government ordered to stop, ordered to stop, and Oregi did nothing about this. In 2015 –egia da –, heremuaren zati xiki bat kontserbazioko babes-emu bilakatu zuen; aurretik ére LIC zena, bide batez. But, well, it's still 2021. in the year the trial is open, but it is not finished, and at least the latter gives the last three governments a reason for a little self-critication. At least there's been some neglect. I shall not describe natural values, because in the opening of the planet of the natural resources of Gastine Mountains, they have well described the values of natural inheritance and culture in it; the presence of twenty-four species of animals under threat, 14 flora-species of special interest; the five primary of these interests, of which 16 visual rocks, from which they are considered as 15 excellent; the important part of the ecological passage of the transitions, and places appointed as shelters of biology, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., and so on. For, we may say, it was almost a miracle that a natural space is so near the centre of a city of 2500,000 persons. that I had arrived with such natural values as these till the mastery. The thousands of inhabitants who live in Gasteia and around us, though we have often enjoyed the mountains of Gastheia, in those days of pandemia, during which motion has been limited, have been a wonderful discovery to thousands of people, that we have been able to walk out of the house and plunge into an incomparable naturality. That's a privilege. If we add to this the Green Ring, where Gasteiz has developed the best aspect of his city-making, and joins the fishing ponds, we may say that Gasteiz and Gasteizians have elements which would boast from a point of view of natural preservation. All these, and many others, were the principal reasons for receiving the nature of the Green Cape of Europe, and so many other rewards. And to maintain a mode of action which has been performed for many years and to extend it, it was necessary to obtain a protection for the Gastial Mountains, and to continue to exist. In this miracle there are some things that must be mentioned or praised. I mentioned one: Gastenames and gasteiztars bet. But beyond this, it has been important for centuries, for instance, that a great part of the forests of the Hills has retained its public character, or that the farm-land of the forests and the resources of it have been managed in a ordered and tolerable manner. And this has been owing to the small conquests and nations which have lived in the country with but little confessions and great protagonism. I believe that we owe a historic debt to the councils and their inhabitants, for the unpayable effort and work of guarding the territory in good conditions, which should not be forgotten in the process of creating the protected space nor can it be obviated. Therefore, one of the priority tasks of the Government must be to give a leading role to the councils; it must be to respect customs and customs, making them compatible with the environmental values to be protected, also establishing compensation in cases of limitations of use and exploitation. This tension which exists, but which we must not avoid, must be satisfactorily closed in the process of protecting the mountains of Vitoria, without ceasing to create a protected space, because the need exists. That is true, the concern – because it provokes it – that causes the possibility of creating a new natural park should cause this and previous governments to reflect, not on the desirability of protecting or not more spaces, which is what it seems surprisingly to be inferring the PNV, but on the dubious management of some natural parks, which have ended up causing enough resistance. But I also want to say that this tension, which we do not deny, is not, by far, the main or most important of the tensions that have motivated the paralysis in the protection of the Vitoria Mountains and that, to a large extent, they can better explain the reluctance to declare the Vitoria Mountains a natural park. The presence of a city of 2500,000 inhabitants has brought a great deal of tension into the range of Gastine Mountains. In the decade 2000, these tensions were mostly urbanistic, especially in the south of Gasteia, where there was an excellent area for the growth of the shawls. And, of course, as there were many interests in keeping up the urabanistic ambition, it was best, in some cases, that there should be no shelter in it, because, with a natural park, business experiments were ruined. Moreover, the extension of sub-structure has caused great tensions, because the field is vulnerable to the maintenance point, as well as to the electrical lines of high-tension and the expansion of the eolicans, as well as the continuation of a high-speed train. And above all, we can find the absence of the Françoise and Gastine Mountains, chiefly, here, the famous business of gas-eating, with no fracing or fracing. As long as the Gastian Mountains are not inhabited, all opportunities are opened, and the chances of denominating the surroundings are much diminished. In our opinion, we can find it easier to find the resistance of the Jesuits to make the Gastine Mountains natural in the park. In 2005, CEA was the one who proposed a natural park. In 2012, it was Chief Unzalus who pushed the park. After 2012, he was disappointed. And in 2016, although the Environmental Department was in the hands of PSE, it was said that it was going to be pushed again, but we've come to this day without doing anything. I think it's a good time for you to explain what you want to do now, though I almost would have said that you've confessed, through corrections, that you have no intention of making any progress. We think it's a mistake. And again, I interpret PSOE. Quin os ha visto, quien os ven, porque la enmida la habéis figado tambien, aunque la haya redactado elNV. In our opinion, I am finished with the huddle, it is a proper concern for the population to-day, and we shall protect it. And we've done an additional thing about local elections, as we think, like CEA in 2005 and when you're in 2012, and you're still there in 2016, there's the best figure to preserve the Gastian Mountains, that's the natural park. For all the natural values of the Gastian Mountains, the necessity of being well preserved, for the frequent menaces of this good condition, and for the absurdity of being close to the Gasteiz, we defend ourselves to transform the Gastian Mountains into natural parks, as the Gastian corporation has just decided by a way of intersection.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u62	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Basque Socialists. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours. (He spoke off the phone)... Ladies, President, good noon to all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u63	Well, then, we have another classic of Basque parliamentarianism from the last decade and a half. We already have here again the question of the Vitoria Mountains. When I began to collect information from the files that are in the hands of the General Councils of Araba, the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz or this Parliament, the truth is that I was really amazed at the volume that we have been able to generate with this debate, so I regret to tell you that this Member does not believe that he can say anything that has not been said in such a number of debates. So I'm going to be brief and I'm going to try to make a brief historical tour as well. It has drawn my attention because, indeed, all those who have preceded me in the word have also done that exercise of ordering each point in its place. It is true that my chronology differs a little, not in dates, but in facts. Indeed, in 2005 the Center for Environmental Studies proposed declaring the area of Montes de Vitoria as a natural park. One year later, in 2006, the councils concerned expressed their opposition to the creation of the natural park. This date is an important milestone, because it marks what has been the constant resistance of the different councils to what they literally consider an imposition. You can't forget that Vitoria is much more than the urban environment. As a result of its historical evolution, the city has seen more than 60 councils linked to it, councils that, as you all well know, are regulated by a series of outlaws that establish their own competences. And this debate, throughout its more than 15 years of history, to a large extent, has focused on this, on the recognition of the autonomy that these councils have for the management of their natural resources. Some councils that already expressed their concern in 2012 about the possible loss of skills in favor of a supposed patronage that would manage that natural park and in which they would become only one more part. And at that time the councils warned that the management of livestock activity, the exploitation of pastures, forestry, wildfires and meliferous or woody exploitation would be directly affected if it were decided to continue along this path. The councils saw and saw their rights and revenues threatened by this type of exploitation of resources. Already in 2013, the councils requested that the whole of its council area be excluded from the future nature park. In 2014, the conclusions of the technical report on the development and processing of the Natural Resources Management Plan literally highlighted: "More timely and effective for the conservation of values would be to insist on its protection through the Natura 2000 Network and the instruments already available, both for the conservation of biodiversity and its elements, and to give up the declaration of an additional overlapping figure, which has strong public and social opposition." Sometimes it gives the impression that we find ourselves again in the historical confrontation between the city and the councils of its surroundings, as if for certain questions Álava was not able to leave the 15th or 16th century. But, look, this is not a question that goes from the closure of rural councils against the protection of their natural spaces. Nothing further from reality. In 2016, the councillor's representation requested to open a figure of protection and conservation alternative and in accordance with the reality of the municipality of Vitoria. And the Socialists consider that to be the way forward. We propose the extension of the special conservation area Montes Altos de Vitoria to adapt it to the requirements of a Natura 2000 area; first, to give greater weight to the values of biodiversity. The Natura 2000 Network better focuses on the elements to be protected: habitats and species of wild flora and fauna of regional Community interest. But also because, from the point of view of biodiversity conservation, this network is even more secure than a natural park. But, moreover – and this is a really important point for my group, for the Socialists – because it does not exclude rural development, respecting the historical demands of the councils. Moreover, it links rural development with its contribution to biodiversity conservation. Nor can we forget other issues which, in our view, are also important. So I would like to remind you that European funding only covers the areas included in the Natura 2000 network, because – and here I would now turn to the second part of my speech – we cannot forget that the special conservation area Montes Altos de Vitoria was proposed in order to protect forests of Community interest, also relevant in relation to climate change because of its carbon storage function. Let us not mix up debates. Let us not mix the well of Armentia, the oil-seeking probes, with the need or not to create a natural park on the Mounts of Vitoria. Because, if what is intended is to prevent possible surveys, there are other paths that have to be followed. First of all, the City Council of Vitoria-Gasteiz, with the votes of the majority of the plenary, made it clear that it did not want the well. But it is also that the General Plan of Urban Planning also prevents any kind of survey in that area. Let no one try to look for shortcuts, subterfuges or secondary roads to try to get to the same point. If what we want from the different Basque institutions – be it the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz, be it the General Councils of Álava, or this Parliament – is to ensure that there is no further exploration of the possibility of new wells in search of hydrocarbons in this land, we are not lost either by the hills of Úbeda or by the mountains of Vitoria. In order to achieve that objective, the Socialists are quite clear: there is only one way, and from here I invite all the groups in this House to accompany us in it. In short, they will have the historic opportunity to give their support to the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act, which is currently being processed in the Congress of Deputies. It is the adoption of this law that will allow us to definitively settle discussions on the exploitation and exploration of hydrocarbons, but not only in Vitoria, but in all Araba, throughout Euskadi and throughout Spain. I'm done. The Basque Socialists will continue to bet on the Red Natura 2000 space, discarding the nature park protection figure for the Vitoria Mountains. We believe that this is the best way to protect our natural heritage and the rights and competences of our rural councils. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u64	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Suso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u65	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Barrio, more than 30 years that we did not confront in a rostrum, in those years that we find ourselves in General Meetings – how young we were, eh! But, well, you're more experienced than I am in these dealings, no doubt. Well, let's talk about the Vitoria Mountains, the natural park of the Vitoria Mountains. I have always heard of this natural park when it was going to make Zaballa prison, or when they were going to put the mills in Treviño – the mills, a wind farm – right now. It is also true that the Centre for Environmental Studies of Vitoria, in 2005, requested this statement, and, in addition, that the management was by the City Council of Vitoria. As is known, the natural parks are managed by the outlaws. Good. The first management plan discussed, the initial one, included 13,631 hectares. And, as Mr Barrio said, it included several municipalities besides Vitoria, namely Alegría-Dulantzi, Arraia-Maeztu, Bernedo, Elburgo, Iruña de Oca, Iruraiz-Gauna and Vitoria-Gasteiz itself. Two thirds of the park were in Vitoria, and one third in the rest of the municipalities. Some I can assure you that they are not adjacent to Vitoria, because I have not been able to visit them in these periods of confinement. Since then, it has been 11 years, but many things have happened, as I understand it, at least. In that (?) The 2012 public presentation and submission of allegations by the entities and individuals concerned were initiated, following the approval of that PORN with four undefined alternatives and no specific limits. Even before that publication, no consultations were held with the six municipalities, at least in the territory, and with the respective councils. In July 2012, 62 allegations from the 39 councils concerned were sent to the Basque Government, showing that they were not in compliance with the natural park declaration. You, both groups, plan that the declaration of natural park be made allowing the compatibility of agricultural and livestock activity with respect to the existing customs and customs in the management of the area and in the socio-economic development of its peoples. On this point, in 2013, the Basque Government asked the councilors for a graphic representation of the land to be excluded. And your answer I think leaves no room for doubt. The councils say: "The councils call for their exclusion from the PORN throughout their council, including rural roads, foreign exchange, land and flight use, buildings of their ownership, rotos, mountain and agricultural land and population centres." In short, a categorical and conclusive answer. That if you draw it and it's not daltonic, what's red is precisely those councils that move. I've taken away this hegemony you have with the paintings, but in any case, I think it was important for you to see it. We will not deny that any declaration of protected natural spaces entails rules and limitations that complicate agricultural activities. The Plan of Ordination itself, in this initial delimitation, prohibited 24 activities in this particular space. In addition, the municipalities, these municipalities, most of them also said, moved that the delimitation of their municipalities should not be included. From my point of view, the extension of the surface to other municipalities – as I said before, some of them not adjacent to Gasteiz – was not merely a coincidence. They were looking for well-preserved spaces that would make it possible to give consistency to the declaration of nature park, according to the Law of Conservation of Nature already in force at the time. And, for this, it is only necessary to remember that interview of the then-recognized professional and director of Biodiversity of the Basque Government Germán Alonso, where he stated textually that "The natural space of Montes de Vitoria does not have elements of special value". He even said: "They are not the Serengeti", which, as you know, is an emblematic African national park. I will not even deny that the municipal group of the PNV criticized those statements, more for the form than for the background, because, within the proposed delimitation in that plan of organization of 13,000 hectares, there were natural elements that had to be protected. And so it happened, precisely, with the declaration of special conservation area of Montes Altos de Vitoria, which in 2015 included 2,228 hectares, in addition to a peripheral area of protection with an area of 2,837 hectares. About 5,000 hectares, therefore, are protected in this natural space. More than 78% of this CEZ is occupied by nine habitats of Community interest, highlighting haydoes. It is also true, as has been said, that in the surroundings of these mountains there are two species included in the Basque Catalogue of Threatened Species, two, in addition to one fauna, especially amphibians. As in the case of any protected area, the ZEC also establishes the corresponding limitations that must enable the conservation and environmental improvement objectives in the listed area to be met. Scientists, who understand this matter, say that in this area there are the main environmental elements to be protected, and not where human intervention in space has changed the potential vegetation in existing cropland or rota. We therefore disagree with the proposal put forward by the People's-Citizens Party when it says that "both the special conservation area of Montes Altos de Vitoria, as well as the peripheral area of protection, are insufficient to guarantee the environmental protection of this space from actions and activities of exploitation of natural resources". I think it's textually. Another thing is that the figure of the natural park is intended to be used for other different purposes, which have already been said, and which are not precisely included in the Nature Conservation Act. And it is not because the vast majority of the administrative boards and municipalities included in the foreseeable natural park have said no, because such a negative, in many cases, could have been negotiated in the norm and make some of the (tortures?)). But it is that this space was never located as protectable in the multiple studies that were carried out prior to the cataloguing of protected spaces in the Law of Conservation of Nature. Because the values to be protected must be objective. In this case, the list of scientific studies of the 1980s was much lower. This is like cholesterol: not long ago 240 was fine, and now with 200 we get the asterisk. Well, here, something like that. Another thing is that the Natura 2000 Network opens up new features for the conservation of specific habitats and this will encourage the protection of the Vitoria Mountains, which houses some of them. But expanding, as tried, from our point of view, was a demeanor that sought not to protect values, but to try to avoid certain potential actions. The protection of spaces is for that, to protect pre-existing natural values, not to avoid avoidable evils due to the numerous normative capacity, because, to avoid avoidable evils, the wide and numerous normative capacity can be used in the hands of all institutions. In this way, and if, for example – and now that it is current – high buildings are to be avoided in the middle of Durango, it would only be necessary to modify the management plan of the Urkiola natural park; it would not even be necessary to touch the overall urban management plan: it expands to the natural park and ends the problem. In short, what is intended by some proposing groups, either in the GNP itself or in some of the amendments, is to pervert the protection figure for the purposes and objectives for which it is created and to use it in order to avoid environmental threats to this environment. If that is the case – and I understand that this is not the case – there are other normative figures which can be used for this purpose and which are of common use in environmental and/or urban planning in the relevant administrations – some of which have been cited by my colleague from the Socialist Party. Therefore, the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party groups understand that the figure of the ZEC is an element of protection that – also said by those responsible for environmental matters – has the same, identical protection, or greater, in some cases, than natural parks. It is a different figure facing the street, but it is a figure that really has identical protection. What is needed is, since the ZEC of the Vitoria Mountains is declared, to study the possibility of extending this current extension in order to protect these relevant natural elements and to ensure the conservation and protection figure of that space, which I believe is important, but within the delimitation we have talked about. In addition, I believe that, after 11 years, it is already time – and it has to do with the first proposal – for it to be closed, once it is discussed with the councils and municipalities, and also with the actions carried out in the field of protection, the Plan for the Management of Natural Resources is closed and work is done on the extension of that ZEC area of the Monts Altos de Vitoria for its expansion, as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u66	Thank you, Mr. Suso. Passing over to the band that hasn't run any corrections, Mistto. It's your word, Mrs Martínnez. You don't have to say a word, I'm sorry. Euscala Popularo-Ciudadnos's representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u67	Thank you very much, Madam President. And I thank, of course, Mr Otero and Mr Angulo for the coincidence in this respect and in relation to protection and asking for the declaration of a natural park. To Mr Suso, of course it is true that, as you recalled, 30 years ago or more than we were debating in the rostrum, but, fortunately, it is best that you and I meet on the street, by the peoples of Álava, which is where we meet many times – lastly less with this of the restrictions – but, at those feasts of the peoples and at those important moments of our province, of course, then, that is where we have to keep seeing, and, well, and here, too, in debates so moderate and quiet and constructive, which, of course, from my point of view, try to be. Look, I don't know, he's made some reductionist references in relation to what it should be or we understand it to be the natural park declaration of the Vitoria Mountains, but our reference is a very category reference. In other words, the CEA, Centre for Environmental Studies of Vitoria-Gasteiz, took us to this municipality to the European capital, to the European Green Capital, for its work in relation to our conditions and capabilities, for putting them on the table, for urging and making the institutions (the City of Vitoria, the Foral Diputación de Álava and the Basque Government) work in relation to that statement by Green Capital at the time. It is the same specialized institution that has told us and the one that has convinced us and that convinced many of you many years ago also of the need to make a natural park in the mountains of Vitoria, to make that natural park, natural park that is justified in relation to the reports that were made in relation to the faunal theme, with the plant, with the agricultural... That is, there are many issues that they have convinced and that they have given the appropriate explanations. That is, that we trust the CEA, the essential institution for Vitoria-Gasteiz, for its municipality, and, in this case, also for a solidity and a solvency in the studies that were made for that declaration that we are trying to promote today. Of course, not everything would be well done in the main approach of the PORN, but it was necessary. The suspicions are normal; there is no doubt that the suspicions in many councils are normal in relation to some issues, and we already know that, when it comes to making and addressing an element and a norm as important as a plan of these characteristics leading to the achievement of a park, we must give much confidence to the councils, but we all know what we wanted in relation to that issue, or what we want: it is not only to give confidence, but to preserve and maintain the identity of the councils, their uses, their traditional activities, their customs. That's what you have to do too, and give confidence to the institutions (the Foral de Álava, the City Council of Vitoria and the Basque Government), because we're going to have and we're going to generate and we're going to gain in value with the declaration of the natural park, and those councils were going to do it too. I think... In other words, I did not know that in the Basque Government they were so respectful of the individual's claims in relation to the rules; it is necessary to see in many laws and decrees what case you make to the individual's claims when you have something clear. Well, it's clearer that there are few things about this, because we're going to win everyone, and so are you, because you're going to have more prestige in relation to the institutional management of parks of these characteristics. Look, with your restrictive criteria, there would be no natural parks, there would be no natural parks, because everywhere there are councils, everywhere there are attitudes that are affected... No, what you have to do from the institutions that you govern – all of them – is give confidence; give confidence, in this case, to the citizens, and give confidence to the capital of Vitoria-Gasteiz in relation to environmental policies. And this is an essential element. Mr Alonso has spoken about the important volume of documentation that he sees; indeed, because the objective that is being achieved is very important. He also spoke of the reticences of the councils. Well, well, good. But to do that, we must make a good plan, a good plan for the management of natural resources. It is an opportunity, moreover, that plan to clear up doubts, to clear up doubts, to maintain those issues that we have spoken about: the activity, the uses, the customs of those places; the fact that it responds, moreover, to the threats, that we see it on top – the threat – that we see it on top, and that you, in some way, are managing. I mean, why do they object? Why do they object to the Monts de Vitoria... Is that what you're talking about? Really. That is, the Socialist Party, probably by imposing the government agreement. But the Basque Nationalist Party, why is it opposed to enriching the natural life of Vitoria-Gasteiz, the natural life of Álava? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u68	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. We represent the Podemos-IU team together. Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u69	Thank you. I don't understand either, Mr. Barrio. I don't understand either, after so long why we're still like this. We are in the midst of a health, climate and biodiversity crisis, and we continue as if we were in the 1980s. It's been 40 years, and we have to adapt to the new times. There is the Paris agreement, the WHO recommendations, the European directives telling us that ecosystems must be protected... And we are still here, with an anthropocentric vision in which the members of this Parliament are still living. And that worries us. We are concerned, as they continue to see the ecosystem and our territory as a resource to be exploited, as a resource to continue doing business. The world is changing in the face of a scenario of biodiversity collapse due to climate change. And our policies cannot continue to turn their backs on the most vulnerable aspects of this land. In the 2012 draft of the PORN, they already proposed solutions for coexistence between the environment and economic activities. This coexistence with the protection of agro-farming activities is the only thing that has remained motionless throughout all these years. In all motions, in all propositions – I think there have been about four or five propositions here; the City Council of Vitoria I think it has about three motions, in other cases as well – there has always been talk of maintaining customs and customs. It's the only thing... That is to say, the signatories have been able to change, the positions have changed, but the continuation of allowing and maintaining agricultural and livestock activity has been maintained. Today, here, we are going to vote with everything agreed since 2009. Once again, the Basque Government, the PNV and the PSE seem to be going against what has also been approved in the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz. And what they're trying to do is folder the matter, as you said. It seems that ecosystems and biodiversity in Euskadi are for sale. Neither the Vitoria Mountains nor the wolf nor the (ZEC in Entzina?)... The first thing is gas wells, wind farms, prison, high-voltage towers... There's always an excuse to exploit nature. We must evolve, adapt to the new times. We need a more biocentered view of nature, of its wealth itself, which we must protect and preserve. In this Parliament, nature always loses.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u70	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u71	Neither the Vitoria Mountains are the Serengeti, nor are Urkiola, Gorbea, Izki, Valderejo or Aratz-Aizkorri, the five natural parks of Araba. Between the two, between Mr Alonso and Mr Suso, I believe that what they have done to us is basically a recognition of the failure of this country's environmental policy. Because what you come to tell us is that thinking of a figure of protection as a natural park, bad, because, in the end, this complicates the lives of people, the lives of people living in the environment. And, of course, in this case, then, we do have to listen to the social opposition, which we have so much trouble hearing in some cases. Now, all of a sudden, this social opposition does seem important to us, rather than seeing how we can polish differences. And yet, we're going to be denouncing the figure of the natural park itself. Well, they have five more that can be ruled out. Because the interesting thing about naming Vitoria natural park existed, originally, in 2005; it existed in 2012, when the PORN was opened; and it continues to exist today. It is not worth saying that with the High Mountains of Vitoria everything is protected. No, no, There are 51 species in the protected species catalogue, there are 15 outstanding landscapes, there are 14 floristic species of special interest, and not all are in the Monts Altos de Vitoria. No, no, There are 19 habitats, and five priority areas; not all are in the Upper Mountains of Vitoria. But, of course, we don't have to mix up debates, do we? I mean, whether or not we're talking about naming a natural park place, that is, giving it a certain figure of protection, we have to be thinking about the natural values it can have to defend, and we don't have to mix debates. That's right, if the councils stick to us, then that debate can do; but, if we happen to say there are other kinds of interests, such as gas or those that are – I don't want to focus on that – then we don't have to mix them there. No, of course, that of the councils does, but that of other kinds of issues that are above or around the natural park of the Vitoria-Gasteiz Mountains, those are debates that are not. Well, they are important debates and debates that need to be given. Because, of course, the initial approval stated, for example, that the entire territory defined as a natural park would have the consideration of non-urbanized special protection land, not allowing the construction for new residential use or the installation of more buildings or infrastructures. Of course, that's problematic, that's very problematic. Of course, a city of 250,000 inhabitants, which also has areas that are very powerful to make urban development or infrastructure development or whatever... Of course, closing the door to that is complicated, despite what the PSOE said in 2012 when it was in the government, when it was said in the initial approval document "it is estimated that the protection figure that best suits it is that of a natural park." Elena Moreno, vice-counsel in the last legislature, also felt the same way. So now, all of a sudden – I don't know where you've announced it; I understand that Alonso announces it here today – you say, "No, no, no, we've ruled out, the socialists we've ruled out." Okay, fine. There everyone with what they do. But, of course, it represents news to me. In the end, from what I am seeing, towards what they are going to go is towards this process being closed, I don't know if in false, but, well, with less protection, of course, of what the whole of what has been proposed as a natural park of the Vitoria Mountains deserves. And what they're going to get is that we still have a messy space, a space in which the inhabitants of Gasteiz go out to the area of the natural park, and, instead of having a regulated place where you know where you have to park, where you know what are the paths and routes to follow, because, without further ado, we'll continue to go around any day, and we'll meet squads of people in quad at any time of the year doing what you want on all the roads, parking where you want to and bothering the inhabitants of the councils, as when you've opened up the possibility of moving around. And, yes, we will continue to keep open all kinds of possibilities, of opportunities that give us the fact that we have not approved the appointment of the park, let's say. I leave you a question: why do they call it love for councils when they mean sex?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u72	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Basque Socialists. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u73	I don't know, Mr. Otero, you know the last question I'm always trying to answer. Another thing is that he likes it. I don't know if I'm meeting the deep guipuzcoan canon, but I just didn't understand the question and that link between love and sex. If you want, then in a coffee, explain it to me, and we discuss it calmly. Well, don't go around. Let us see, and since I do not want to speak on the next point either, I do not intend to extend it at all – I am already advancing it – because I think that debate twice the same does not come anywhere, but I would like to make a kind of final reflection, and to unite it, by the way, if I may, with the reflection carried out by my colleague Prieto on the previous point. Now we come with the Paris agreement – it has been quoted here again. I believe that this is one of the most manipulated agreements throughout the day, because, according to the point that we have been touching, it has interested us for one thing or the other. Turns out we have to decarbonize, but be careful, don't. We have to make a number of decisions, but we have to try not to bother. So, I think, honestly, it's time to focus the shot a little bit. This reminds me of an anecdote, if I may, of my years as a trade unionist, where it was up to us to make an agreement, a hard agreement, an agreement that really involved an entire staff. When we finished signing it, at the first meeting at which we met to decide how we were going to implement that agreement that we had signed, the representative of a trade union, of an important trade union, asked for the floor and said, "Well, we already have the agreement; now I propose that it not apply in the next two years." Faced with the surprise of everyone there, he explained to us: "It is that we have already reached agreement, but it is that, if we apply it now, people will be pissed off." Of course, but that is the difference between governing and being in opposition: decisions must always be made and certain decisions must always be assumed that they will end up pissing off one another. And what the Government is trying to do, or what it is trying to do whenever it is governed, is to seek the best possible decision to reconcile the interests of all the actors involved. And serve this replica of me for point one, for point three – which I think is where we are – as for point five, which will be the one we are discussing again and in which I do not want to extend again. You say to mix or not mix debates. I keep thinking the same thing. I still think that one issue is to protect biodiversity and another issue is hydrocarbon explorations and another totally different issue can be, as it was in its day in this debate, the Zaballa prison, as can be the high net... Each is a completely different debate, which confluences, but they must be dealt with in different ways. I have already said it here, and I say it again: if what we have is a problem for the well of Armentia and all that it entails, the path and the debate is another – I have already said it –: the Energy Transition Act. That's the way. If we want to protect biodiversity, let's look for the most interesting formula. Let us look for the most interesting formula that reconciles the interests of all the actors involved, because the councils, beyond a folkloric question, are institutions which have their own competences and which must also be respected, which must also be respected. No more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u74	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians. Mr. Suso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u75	President andrea. Well, Mr. Otero, you answer the question better, because you're more expert than I on those issues. You (...) groups when in that sense you know what they are trying to do or what they are not trying to do. We are not the experts in this area. Therefore, the answer sure you have it, to love and sex; sure you have it. Good. Look, I got to the congress in '91, as director of agriculture. He declared himself a natural park – the first of all – Urkiola. I didn't even have an ordination plan at the time. And it was up to me to go there. It all started to develop. And, in the end, nothing more came to the council, it had also declared Valderejo natural park, and it was up to me to put the budgets and the work that had to be carried out for it, for that area that was practically already desert, in order to promote it. Later, along with Mr Telleria, who was accompanying me in those talks, we worked on the declaration of Gorbeia's nature park. I can tell you that, if you go by the delimitation, you will see my name still there, also that of Mr Telleria, in what you will see that, less handsome, they put us anything. I know what it's like to work on the declaration of a natural park. And finally, in the second parliamentary term as a deputy, the Izki Natural Park was declared. Izki Natural Park starts 200 meters from my house in Maeztu. Of nature parks I know something; of negotiation, too, in that sense; and of protecting nature, too, Mr Angulo, because that you go green does not mean that you are more ecological than I am. I too can show you my work in this area, which is extensive and long-standing. In this sense, in those years the Nature Conservation Act was passed, in the year 94, if I remember correctly, Mr Telleria. And there, the figures that were to be protected were called biotopes, they were called singular trees, they were called natural parks. But then came the Natura 2000 Network in 2000. And there, the European Union changed nomenclatures, and the LIC was one of them. And then we moved on to the ZEC, to the special conservation area. And those areas, in principle, are within a community context, and they have, say, higher protection conditions than a natural park can have. If the figure of natural park mediatically has, let's say, another name, it may be something else, but the year 2000 changes the policy of conservation in Europe. And since then, in Álava, the land I know best, ZEC zones are declared up to 27% of the population of the territory, which is what we have in conserved areas. I mean, we're not exactly a party that hasn't dedicated itself to preserving nature. Quite the opposite: 27%, as I say. In this sense, therefore, I believe that, at this moment, discussion between ZEC zones and natural parks makes no sense, because the figures of protection can be the same as for the purposes that can be achieved. But, on the other hand, you said, "What's going to happen? They're going to go with the quads; we can meet anyone in those areas." In the park, in the area of Montes de Vitoria, or in which it may be park, the Water Act, among others; the European Water Directive 2000/60/EC, of the Water Framework; Law 3/1998, of the Protection of the Environment of the Basque Country; the PTS of the management of the margins of the rivers and streams of the CAV; the Foral Standard of Mountains, which regulates the roturo mountains and the bonfires; the Law of the Conservation of the Nature of the Basque Country; the Law of the Protection of the Environment, which addresses the special casuistics of the Montes de Álava; the Catalogue of Mountains of Public Utility; the foral standard that regulates the use and conservation of rural roads; the General Plan of Urban Planning of Vitoria – which, as you know, also applies–; the Foral Standard 8/2004, which regulates the hunting quotas; the Law 2/2011, of Hunting, which approved this Parliament; the Foral Standard 1/2012, of green itineraries; the VEC itself?)). Do you think – sure there are many more – it seems to you that there is little regulation to be able to apply, so that you can avoid those things that you say can happen? We have enough legislation to be able to implement them and to maintain the quality and conservation of the Vitoria Mountains, let us say, on the part of those 10,000-12,000 hectares that this delimitation implies. Nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u76	Thank you, Mr. Suso. The discussion is over and we'll put it to the vote, like the popular group of Basques, the original text of another proposal than that of the Ciudadans. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting were 43; 75; the supporters of 34; the contrary, 41; the abscessations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u77	So it's not accepted. We'll vote for the rights of modification for the EH team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters are 33; the opponents are 42; the opposition is 42; the abscessions are 0; white, 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u78	So it's not accepted. Together we vote for the full-line correction of the Podemos-IU team. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters are 33; the opponents are 42; the opposition is 42; the abscessions are 0; white, 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u79	So it's not accepted. And finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the U.S.A. patriots in the whole area that the teams present. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 34; the abstainations, 0; white, 0.1,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u80	So it's accepted. Five point in theme list: "The same proposal as that of the popular group of Euscals-Ciudadans, in order to defend the bidibertsity and landscapes of the Eusal Autonomia Erdigo. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Larre, representative of the Basque Popularo-Ciudadans, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u81	President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen. As we said at first thing in the morning, today's protagonists are environment and biodiversity, and Álava also has it. We have all recalled the genesis of the sectoral territorial wind energy plan and its tortuous course, and the ability it had to trigger a broad social rejection, the rejection of virtually all political forces, the rejection of the three general boards and also, unanimously, the rejection of this House in the 2009 plenary, demanding its cessation and the elaboration of a new plan. It is the position that we have always maintained, with which the People's and Citizens' Party has participated in the elections and which we continue to maintain today, because we believe it is the position that is responsible for those who defend the environment, the fight against climate change and the development of renewable energies. It was also the position we defended in 2015, in relation to the Basque Climate Change Strategy. We need a Basque renewable energy plan that will contribute to meeting this 40% target of final renewable energy consumption by 2050. It is still a distant goal in practice and in time. As I said this morning, renewables do not mean anywhere, in any way and at any price or at any environmental cost. But we find that the Basque Government has changed its position, and now it is worth any location, with any impact and without even concealing it in the process. I am saying this because, when it seemed that the renewable energy plan had begun to be processed after years of postponement, someone decided to anticipate and give impetus to four wind farms in Álava, with the aim of sorting out both the renewable energy plan and the requirements that will be incorporated into the two environmental laws currently being processed in this Parliament. The company Aixendar, participated by the EVE and Iberdrola, that is, with impulse of public money, money of all, intends to install four wind farms in Azazeta, Montes de Iturrieta, Arkamo and Labraza. It is not known that they have explored other areas or alternatives. As the counselor says, the wind is there. And, to make the tortilla, I repeat again, as I said this morning, then, you have to break the eggs, which they like to say to others with manifest simplicity. The truth is that there is the wind and there are more things: there are excellently preserved landscapes; continuous masses of indigenous forests; areas of fundamental nesting of birds of prey; territories declared or proposed as a natural park; areas ZEC or ZEPA, which are part of Red Natura 2000; that is, everything we have all agreed to preserve. We called for this in the 2009 debate: exclude these areas from the search for sites. As much wind as there is, there are values, greater wealth, incompatible with industrial development. The Mugarri plan, agreed upon at the General Councils of Álava, specifically requested this, which predicted that these areas would emerge from the energy plans. We don't talk about places like any other. The Sleeping Lion is a social and cultural reference in the Rioja Alavesa; it is not a mere piece of rock. The valley of Campezo or Arana are the best exponents of the rural landscape of the Alavesa mountain. Arkamo is one of the four best territories for the real eagle in Europe. The forests of Azazeta, Maeztu and Iturrieta are the habitat of a surprising biodiversity. And, also in Iturrieta, large raptors, particularly vultures, take advantage of the rising hot air currents of the slopes on which the mills would go. It is also here where the breaker is most frequently seen in Euskadi, young specimens that reach Asturias from the Pyrenees. The massive transformation of the landscape, the irreversible visual impact and the damage on the avifauna of the wind turbines are beyond discussion. The impact on the ground, on perfectly preserved natural areas, and the erosion caused on roads for machinery, cranes or trucks that must carry elements of tens of meters in length are something that usually goes unnoticed, but real and undesirable. As real are the high voltage lines for the evacuation of the energy produced, in many cases in the same areas where there are conventions and protocols to correct the high voltage lines and avoid collisions of resident or migratory birds. Someone should slowly read Ararteko's general recommendation on birds and electrical installations from February 8th – less than a month and a half ago – because the impact of a wind farm far exceeds that of any stretch. To achieve objectives in political management is one thing; to do it in any way, another good. No one proposes to transform the palace of the Diputación Foral, the park of La Florida or the tower of Iberdrola into social housing, or win a couple of lanes for circulation by snatching a few meters of beach from La Concha. Well, with the mentality of those who drive these wind farms, those places would be able to take such initiatives. The ground or building is there; let's do it. The wind is there; let's try. And, for that, do not hesitate to falsify the Basque Climate Change Strategy. One thing is the renewable origin of 40% of the final energy, and another very different one that must be produced in the Basque Country, a small, densely industrialized and humanized territory, in which areas rich in biodiversity or well-preserved landscapes must take priority in the face of energy installations, in the face of the industrialization of the same places that we say we want to preserve for future generations. The only ones responsible for the delay in the renewable energy plan are those who are now part of the Government. There is no reason for haste; there is no reason to work on consensus, to preserve irreplaceable places in the face of an amazing race for altering them, precisely when the values that treasure are most evident. We have to ask ourselves – we did it this morning – which part is missing from us. If the sacrifice is the natural heritage of the Alaves, of all Basques, who benefits? Who favors soiling wind energy with insurmountable environmental costs? What is sustainable about the actions of a prestigious government or multinational when making these decisions? Who can bet on this mischief? In exchange for what do the interests of EVE and Iberdrola converge? Questions are not missing, because it is not known that there are other locations under exploration. There aren't, or they're just less productive. The criterion is the wind or the intensity of the profitability. Is there only wind in Alava? Only in natural spaces? Just where the General Councils said he wouldn't touch it? Sounds like a lot of coincidence to me. Why is the decision of Álava and the Basque Country removed? They will tell us that it is the decision of others, of the Ministry – they said this morning–; that parks affect more than one autonomous community – by chance, eh?–; that the resolution is imposed... It's still very random. Therefore, instead of starting by destroying the most valuable part of our territory, we want to start by recovering the consensus on the renewable energy plan, on the laws of natural heritage and environmental administration that we have under way, on the preservation of our natural heritage in the face of the intractable locations of energy generation. This can't be a smart race to sort out planning and legality. Less still can the Basque Government, the EVE, participate in that race, which is a race against the general interest and against this Parliament, against the decisions it adopted in 2009 and those it will take in the coming months. We therefore call for the House's support for our non-legislative proposal, which we have had sex with the Elkarrekin Podemos group, in order to have as soon as possible a renewable energy plan and not to sacrifice the most valuable elements of our landscape and biodiversity, neither while it is being elaborated nor applied. We are in time to avoid a destabilization against the Alaves, against the natural heritage of all Basques and against the general interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Soto, representing the Podemos-IU team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u83	Well, here we are again, to reiterate – certainly in many cases – arguments that we have already made this morning, at the first point, in the first point. In any case, welcome is the opportunity to refocus on certain issues that we believe to be important. To say that we cannot, on the one hand, affirm that we must go through a transition process with regard to the use of gas and, on the other hand, say that this would not be possible to do so within an accelerated period if we do not enter fully into protected spaces, we believe that it is false, and we believe that it is also quite cynical. We believe that it is perfectly compatible and that, moreover, there has been sufficient time to do so: to go towards an energy transition that would have respected or respected in the medium term protected areas or, failing that, also rural soil. We believe that the only interest that these projects are focusing on – or megaprojects – in Araba has to do with the cheaper use of land in Araba, unlike Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, and, in turn, also with the agreements and the business niche capacity that they offer to certain companies with which the collaboration agreements and agreements are being reached by the Basque Government, because in all of them always participate, as said this morning, the same companies. We do not believe that, of course, the element of air intensity is the criterion that is really governing this issue with regard to the exact locations of these megaprojects. In addition, we find it rather worrying that the sprint launched by the Basque Government to – I say – favour certain companies before the adoption of the PTS of renewable energies and also certain laws in process, both at state level and here, at the autonomous level. We believe that the willingness to do so so quickly, taking into account, moreover, that it was said that the STPs are expected to have them on the table in two weeks' time, the interest in speeding up the deadlines for this has no objective beyond favouring certain companies and not being limited by – I say – the limitations that are expected to appear in the STPs and these laws that are being dealt with in other areas. We have already proposed this morning that we believe that we should move towards another model of renewable energy drive, not agreeing with multinationals, and encouraging collaboration with SMEs and energy cooperatives by decentralization of what is now an energy monopoly. We believe that – and it has already been mentioned – if the Mugarri 20002020 plan – a plan for the development of renewable energies in the historical territory of Álava – it already proposed or promoted the installation of mini-windows – as it also said in its literal text – in industrial polygons and avoiding wind farms in the Natura 2000 network, because it seems to us that, if this is the only thing we have on the table at this time, how it is possible that, with regard to the only thing in force at this time, there is not even any consideration. Who has promoted the four wind projects, why has this plan not been taken into account? And if they have not read it, and the wind energy PTS has been suspended since 2009 and the renewable energy PTS has not yet been processed in the Basque Parliament, on the basis of what plan are the EVE and Iberdrola wind farms planning? It seems to us that this is basically a free bar that has been raised right now in Euskadi regarding this type of megaprojects before the deadlines come to an end. So we even discovered the only plan that could be in place, as is the Mugarri plan, and we bet on large wind farms, instead of mini wind farms, as he claimed. And since we are, we built one of the parks in the protected area of Entzia, which is a Natura 2000 ZEC. It seems to us to be a barbarity. Nor am I going to repeat much more the arguments I have made this morning. We believe that this only serves the commercial interests of a given energy oligopoly, which, in collaboration with the Basque Government, is trying to accelerate the process of decarbonization of our country, but, of course, always under criteria of economic profitability, not under principles of conservation of protected space. In this case, we believe that this should not be the case. We believe that it is perfectly compatible to go to decarbonisation and not to have to resort to protected spaces in Euskadi for this type of investment, and that it is not always necessary to do so with the same energy companies that control the space in our country via monopoly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u84	Thank you, Mr. Soto. EHGG rep. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u85	I'm out of here. I'm out of here. I'm out of here. With a little danger of repetition, but I think that, as the first point has remained, there are many things to say. I, in the morning, began by saying that, regardless of whether it was clear, as it is, that today the roll was going to be applied – the big one – with the issues that there were – and so it is – I was interested in continuing to debate, because I had the impression that, even if we lost votes, we were winning debates. And, Mr. Grajales, I was accused of not having a grandmother, but I wasn't referring exactly to that, not for the good we did, but because I have a feeling that there are some debates on the energy aspect, with the energy issue, in which you end up coming to your senses; and I think I don't give up the hope that you will come to your senses too. And I'm also thinking about fracking, supported for so many years by the PNV, which eventually came to their senses; or the insistence on separating the energy transition and climate change, and finally entering what we had been proposing for years: making energy transition and climate change laws together; or so many years defending the issue of distributed generation, and now we pride ourselves on the truth, seeing them taking pictures of projects like Ekiola, talking about energy cooperatives and distributed generation, and so on. That's what I meant. And, on the question of respect for protected natural spaces, although we lose today, I do not give up that in the end they go into reason. I don't like your interference at first, Mr. Grabaris, because I didn't like it because you said there was a lot of harmony in an early convention, and that there was a red line, in a way, and that the problem was there, but the second time you went down, I don't know, with the idea of making wood or something, but I think you've made a complete intervention. And in the end, I think it's been an attempt to caricaturize the place we're more than trying to describe the place we're in. And I believe that we are in a long-standing place of responsibility for the energy issue. We have been saying that this is a fat, serious issue that is going to occupy us in the coming years; that this must be done together; that this is a matter of country; that this cannot be done by jumping to the torrier major issues such as the one we are debating today. And yet, you accused us of getting us all wrong. "Everything gets you wrong." These last few years, and more so now, there are many, many energy projects, and he doesn't see us here protesting for everything because everything is wrong with us. What happens is that we do believe that it has limits. Because you solve it by saying "every activity has impact," and that's it. Like every activity has an impact... well, then, whatever it has to have. And there, of course, that's where we're not going. For in everything we have to set limits; in this too. And today it was about that. And you accused us of wanting to be with everyone, of wanting to be with those who want renewables, but of wanting to be... – and he expressed it that way. I thought it was a big deal, I think I'd make him look at it. I don't know if he was talking on his own behalf or on behalf of the party–, about trying to move or give hope to those who are complaining about a brilliance of grass – that was the concrete expression. Talk about the Iturrieta and Arkamo ZECs, people who are worried about the subject, between us and us, like people who are worried about a herb brizna... I wanted to put four data on him on the table, so when he comes back to talking about weed bristles, he'll know a little about what he's talking about. This is the building..., well, apart from the Petronor fireplace, which has 220 meters, this is the Euskal Herria skyline: the Iberdrola tower, 165 meters – for Victorian reference, the Victorian skyline, the Salburua towers have 70 meters. This is what will be put in the ZEC, 34 of these, 200 meters high each, 150 of flight, 71 meters each shovel to each side. I mean, we're talking about this. This is a little bit more than a weed breeze. In a special conservation area, in a necrophagous protection area, where they feed, there is one of the only two mulattoes, that is, where Araba's necrophagous are fed; at 100 meters, pairs of nesting alimoche. I'm saying we're talking about something. And the numbers are a little bit more than a weed breeze, huh? We are talking about that each of these that are going to be put needs almost 600 cubic meters of concrete; that is, in total, 8,925 cubic meters of concrete, in Iturrieta alone; that is, to empty 900 full concretes in a special conservation area, and more than 1,000 in Arkamo's. We are talking about 71,000 kilos of steel per piece, that is, more than a million kilos of steel in Iturrieta – another one in Arkamo – 16 kilometres of roads between five and six metres wide, apart from the electric connecting ditch and so on; a permanent occupation of 420,000 square meters of space in the ZEC area. All that without counting on what you see next, huh? I think calling this "weed breeze" is doing you a weak favor in your own position. And I thought it was important to highlight it. I will not say that we must agree all the time, and all things in all things; every one has a right to lay down his own limits, and to defend his own. I'm just gonna ask you a couple of things. One, integrity. I think honesty is important to me. Here the discussion about these new oolikas began in the year before, as we said. Then the chief physician, the head of Tapia, told me that you were only measuring the wind. When I asked him two weeks ago, he said, "But he measured it or didn't he measured it? "For, without setting up the anemometer, you've put the project into the Ministry. Yes, yes, yes, yes. And then I find out if you were to find out that the el periods de medicalion de vientos para meter estos Proyectos en la Evaluación de Impacto Ambiental son del 2007 period. "O seca que informe de Evalución de Implacto Ambientalt me esta dicendo que no se condido." Y states son medicalness que tubans haranhas a 55 meters. Y esto el bud lo lo a tener a, a 127. Poco que ver. Eta Bestea – Suso jauna ez dago. Nor is it worth going to the radio this week and simply lying – I hope someone says "that was a lapsus, it was a mistake" – and say on the radio "the wind turbines are not going to be placed in the special conservation areas in the Natura 2000 Network". And we read the environmental impact reports, and in Iturrieta and Arkamo go the 34 wind turbines in Red Natura 2000. I think at least there ought to be some things, don't you think? Besides the discrepancy, some things can't be done. And I want to end up with the rush business and the PTS. Yes, the head of the Tapia departments the day before, and you're defending PTSa today, in the end. We say 2009. that PTS is politically dead, and we can't go on holding this PTS. Unanimity; 18 June 2009, unanimity: "Parliament urges the Government to suspend the administrative processing of wind farms under way, in order to allow during this period of suspension the achievement of an interinstitutional and social consensus on the plans under way". E "Urges to start the preparation of the second PTS before the end of 2009. 2009. 12 bumps. Nice bath ez dago hor. Graziosoena topatu dut... Hori erdibideko bat izan zen, baina PNVren zuzenketa originalak, signed by one Joseba Egibar Artola on 10 June 2009, spoke of "paralysing the administrative processing of all the wind projects that are currently being processed, as long as the above proposals are not presented and discussed". What was the above-mentioned proposal? The proposal was to refer to Parliament the conclusions of the study on the joint environmental impact assessment of wind projects. Of course, that, in paladin roman and with the amendment of the State Environmental Impact Act 2013, becomes a strategic environmental assessment. That is, we have to make a joint assessment, which Mr Egibar said in 2009, move it to strategic, see the environmental damage that the operation has together and, from there, start doing things neatly, which is what we are asking. We don't react to the power of the oil. We don't. We only ask ourselves to sit down and order it, and before it's too late let's take a break to get this right. We've said it from the beginning and we keep the same thing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u86	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Basque Socialists. Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u87	Thank you, ma'am. I'll be very brief. I, possibly, is that as I am new to this House, I don't know, this issue seems to me more... I think Mr. Otero would be delighted with filibusterism this Anglo-Saxon taca, taca, be, be and not stop until you sit down, right? I sincerely believe that the debate is well founded. I mean, more than that, we've even gotten to mix the texts. We tabled as an amendment what we had tabled as the original text in point one. We introduce groups like other groups. Our group, together with the Basque Nationalist Party, also tabled the same amendment, because we understand that we are constantly debating the same thing. A moment has already come when I was feeling, Mr Otero, with all the appreciation that you know I have for you, that you already believed that we were making text comments to the previous comments: "I didn't like it so much; I think here I was loose, here I was a little bit more...". Well, I believe that, at least as far as I am concerned, we owe respect to the House, and I, of course, am not going to make you suffer another ten minutes discussing the same matter. I have simply come down because, as a strong advocate of parliamentary courtesy, I did not want anyone to think that somehow I was not paying due respect and with due interest to a subject brought to this plenary. But, of course, I have simply come down to say that I believe that this issue is absolutely and totally debated. All positions I believe have already been put forward – and even many of them voted on – and therefore I will not take up my speaking time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u88	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians. Mr. Gragars, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u89	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Good morning again. I don't know whether to start with the academic "we said yesterday" or with the radio "gol, goal, goal", or, for the fans of Iragorri, "bacalao, cod, cod". Because the goal they have put today to the members of this table is anthological; that is, that we have to discuss twice on the same subject, that the same discussion doubles, therefore, has its own. I've already argued with you in the first round, Mr. Otero. Now I didn't mean to, but anyway. First of all, I have to tell you: here the one who doesn't console himself is because he doesn't want to. But he has a somewhat distorted view of that historical trait that he has made us. That, on the one hand. On the other hand, we will discuss it on another occasion, but let's say that you take a concrete expression so that from there you can give a master class, well, then, I accept it, but in any case, I did not intend to ridicule it. What I intended was, above all, to warn, and to warn you, basically, that you usually like to talk about social leave... We have the license, in this case, the government. I have said before: we also have the social license, you and we, who give us the municipalities, who give us the deputies. Against what I wanted to warn is against that evening threat of "care, because, if things don't go where I want, based on the specific weight I have in the different institutional areas, there you have the social license or the social response". The problem is that, in this country, many times, and here we all know each other – those who are more Victorian than Tomás Acebal we all know each other – it turns out that the social response can come from the hands or from a one-person organization of ecological court or from certain people who, according to the day of the week that it touches, belong to one or another social license dealer; that's right, every two, three or four years, on their electoral lists, in the first row of their rallies. That's why that's the social leave I was warning you about. Don't take the radish by the leaves, so I told you about the herb brizna, because there too – I told you before – look at you: "no, it's that 2009 consensus." I do not know if what you have read is the compromise amendment. If it is the compromise amendment, you have missed the last part of article one, when it is said that "the PTS will be paralyzed for the implementation of the environmental regulations adopted in recent years around the environmental impact assessment procedures of the different wind farms that are currently being processed". Is all this in force today? Yeah, well, another point. Mrs Larrea, from the Basque Nationalist Party we understand that your proposal is intended to guarantee the protection of the Natura 2000 Network, and to that end we will remain. I am not going to go into the rest of the issues that you have, because, in the end, I am going to leave it to you that we do not agree with the wording you have given to the points of your motion either in substance or in form. We don't even agree with the liberal touch he got from Elkarrekin Podemos. Because they say, "Open it, open it." Well, if you can open it. The first thing that happens when you open that is that the government would lose its share of the quota, and the second thing: I know you have your obsessions, you like to talk about oligopolies, but probably a bid of this type, so Loli supermarkets in Villabuena won't come, will it? In any case, Mrs Larrea, here we come to debate, to discuss and, if you can and you want to later, to agree, more calmly or more vehemently, but to debate and not to insult. And you have the bad habit of using too thick words, which, instead of enriching the debate, embarrass you. Today he was talking about prevarication, not to mention other things that he mentioned, and to me, look, it seems to me a lie that, with the experience gained in his party, he still does not know that the crimes are reported and disposed of in the courts and in the courts. Parliament is for something else. As Andoni Ortuzar said today, let us not play with fire; let us recover politics, its good name; let us do things with level, please. In any case, you are committed to talking about 2002, of 2009, of lapsed plans and without legal validity the majority. But we are in 2021, and since then, many things have changed, many things have changed; for example, then we did not, as I said earlier, have the necessary legal environmental framework to protect the ZEC and ZEPA areas. I guess you won't have told them either: we had the management plans for these areas, because you in your mandate in the parliament didn't develop them and we had to do them later, as we are now developing the Klima Araba 2050 strategy. And, as I say, more Victorian than Tomás Acebal, I am very proud that Araba is now a pioneer in the development of renewable energies. Little more to add. Returning to today's football simile, Mr Otero, you tie to zero: the combined supposedly progressive zero, the combined supposedly centrist zero, the Basque government two goals, age EAJ txapeldun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u90	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Passing the answer, representative of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadans, Mrs. Larrea from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u91	Well, invading natural spaces with unsustainable projects is something that has stopped all the courts around the world. I'm just gonna say that even Trump couldn't get away with it; look, Trump. There are parks that did not give rise to any kind of conflict: in the port of Bilbao, in Oiz, in Elgea there is no problem with such facilities there. We may have to install smaller parks, we have to do a study, we have to do a new study – that is why the new PTS of renewable energies was asked for, not to use the one of the year 2002. So clear. It is that, in reality, we are not against renewable energies; we are against sites that give us the feeling that they want to put us to the knife, they want to put wind farms in places where sustainability, the environment, must be preserved. There's no more. I am not going to go any further, either, because we have already discussed this issue at first instance, and it gives me the feeling that they have not been made clear what the purpose of the initiative is, and the purpose of the initiative is to preserve high-level areas of protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Mr. Soso doesn't have to speak. Thank you. Collect EH. Ottero, out of there, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u93	I shouldn't have talked, but you've sung two goals, two goals, that's to congratulate you. "For today you have not won two and missed; you have gained four and missed. Klaro, you only count your goals, but you're a team, and you've dug four goals. The problem is different: the problem is, if you put four goals, ten, a hundred, or a thousand, because if we don't challenge anyone who's in front of us, it's no use EAJ playing well and he's putting in all the goals. That's all I meant.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u94	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mr. Alonso mustn't speak. And Granarisk, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u95	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. This way, from the seat. Lehenengo eta behin, Larrea anderari esateko ongi etorri. I think it's great that you now worry about those areas to protect, which you didn't do when I touched you because you were ruling. And, Mr. Otero, I'll tell you again. You know it too: We've been talking about this for years, talking about energy accounts. You know our door is always open and we're ready to make a deal. The chief physician told you the other day. Come closer, don't start that war. The song said that, but the war of marriage doesn't always make a yes. Let's go together, let's make our way together, and probably we'll find ways in common to keep this road together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u96	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. End of discussion, we'll vote for the half-directional correction that Euscala Populanos and the Podemos-IU have signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 32; the contrary, 41; the abstations, 1; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u97	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the entire EH Collect Group correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; the votes are 74; the supporters are 27; the contrary is 42; the abstations are 5; white ones; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u98	So it's not accepted. And finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the U.S.A. patriots in the whole area that the teams present. You can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-18.u99	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and eighteen.
