ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I'm warning you, 19. that the point has been abandoned for another reason. And with this, the first point in the subject-list: "To ask the question of the predictions which the president makes before the development of COVID-19. " Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u1	Thank you, ma'am. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. From March 2020, we are experiencing a pandemy, which, except for a short time, has kept us in a state of medical emergency. During this period of time we have had some incidents in the influence of the virus on the inhabitants, and consequently the hospitals and their motives have been fulfilled. But not only this, but also these circumstances have been seriously influenced by a hundred socioconomics. From that first moment when it was even hard to make masks, and when we thought that only wrapped in gel could we avoid the contagion until today, many things have happened. Much we have known and learned, and many decisions have had to be made to try to minimize the damage that the covid caused in all aspects. By the way, Osakidetza's UCI contingency plan, designed to deal with the first (sola?) The pandemic, the most complex of all, has been recognized as the best communication in innovation at the National Congress of Hospitals and Health Management. Beer, zorionak, Osakidetza. 'Essupon, you're the boss, and with all kinds of popular technicians' advice, he's made various decisions according to the outbreak of the plague, about opening or closing opportunities for social intercourse. And in our opinion, when you saw how infections descended, you made up your decisions, though some of you always thought you were wrong, by the way, without ever giving an alternative. Already at the moment... Let's see if they're letting us take our mask off. Already at the moment, it has been observed that over the past few weeks all indicators of the pandemic are clearly positive. This same trend is also taking place in our environment. The measures adopted in the last decree, following the LABI Advisory Council, have allowed progress in all sectors of activity: the face-to-face course has started normally in schools, sports and cultural activity is recovering, and the balance of the tourism sector has also been positive this summer. This positive pursuit seems to be strengthening, and is reflected even in medical services and social services. The insertion in the whole step, more than 86% of the population of 12 years old, is improved by the indicators of hospitals and hospitals at ZIU. After this fact has been verified, what are the president's predictions for the week following? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u2	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u3	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. The change of these last weeks is becoming positive, and the rate of independence for 14 days has been going down for 63 days. On July 30th, there were 873 cases of 100,000 inhabitants, which are below 80 today. In the units of intelligence, the largest occupation, the 22nd of August, with 82 beds, is half today. With a dose of vaccination, it's reached 90% of over 12. And, with the full example, 88,5%. These facts agree with the development of pandemics throughout Europe; The descending tendency is stable and continuous. We are in a different situation, so there must be different answers. The scientific committee came to an assembly yesterday, and next Monday he will meet again. Among the ballots of yesterday, he observed that the transition and stages of the most ordinary social activity are being completed. The board will say that when we've started the fixation phase, we can take another step. With this information, Euskawa is passing from a pandemic position to another, which may be considered to be endemic. This would mean that a new step may be made, according to the foresight of the laws of the New World and of managing COVID-19 pandemia. In that context, I called LABI's Advisor for next Tuesday. We're fulfilling the goals we set. We will go on studying the development of the Pandemade every day, and it is desired that the decree which puts an end to the health emergency may be represented in the course of these days, if the development continues so. The Scientific and Technical Commission analyses the possibility of adapting the measures to the level 1 forecasts set out in the Bizi Berri IV Plan and the COVID-19 Pandemic Management Measures Act. In this context, and given that we are meeting the objectives, I have convened the LABI Advisory Council next Tuesday. We will continue to analyze the epidemiological evolution, and I hope that in these days we will continue with the positive evaluation maintained so far, we can address the decree establishing the end of the health emergency situation. The undoubted improvement of the situation does not, in any case, dispel all the uncertainties and latent threats. For this reason... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... the undoubted improvement of the situation does not, in any case, dispel all the uncertainties and latent threats. For this reason, until the global pandemic is concluded, it is necessary to maintain the daily epidemiological analysis in order to verify that the trend in the various indicators is consolidated and to observe the evolution of the variants of the virus. We are making a great effort for 18 months, keep the prudence and protective measures: mask, distance, avoid agglomerations and be supportive in preventive behavior. This is our contribution to the public health, to the health of people, of every person. We must continue to meet the objectives and guide us by the criteria of prudence, commitment, co-responsibility and balance. Garai berri bat hasteko atarian egon gaitezke, txertaketa prozesu burutu behar dugu, eta, horrekin bata, planetan global txertaketa eta solidario bat hedatzen lagundu behar dugu. We have to take advantage of this new time to strengthen the emotional, social and economic impulse of our society. To do this we must step forward, maintaining the criteria of wisdom and of balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question of the new political state of Maddalen Irina, the member of the Book of the Book of the Union." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u5	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Mr. President, good morning. Three years ago, in July 2018, the Jest Party, the Basque People assembled, and for a while Podemos accepted these principles and principles for a new state. Their contents are collected in two main columns. On the one hand, when we anchor in historical rights and theirs, and on the other hand in a democratic principle, this is the right of determining the spine. You've talked about historical rights over and over in the last few days. But I see with anxiety that the right of deciding has been excluded from your discourse, and that is what concerns me. And that is why I ask you today whether your rights should be an indispensable part of the new political state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Irrior, you have well said, historical rights and democratic principles. I understand the concept of right to decide as to the exercise of a democratic principle. I believe there is no democratic argument against the decision of the future of society with freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u9	Thanks again. Then let me tell you, Mr. President, that I do not understand why we sometimes agree with things in this parliament, what value we give to those we write, what value we give to our words. For you have now told me that you see that the right to decide must be a road, just as you yourself have repeated it more than once in 2020 a year, first 13th, 2020. You said on Sunday that you wanted the state that will be symbolized by historical rights. I therefore understand the right of deciding, for what you have said, that this proposition is received, and that is what I would like to answer. For you always insist on the necessity of agreeing in this parliament, the necessity of agreement between the several, and here lies the agreement of the several. Here is EAJ, EH collect, which has been agreed together for a while by Podemos. And there's a silent hysteria here in this book the government has made, a written government written in the mouth of Mrs. Garasty. And about this agreement of the several parties, the other is said, that those who maintain the protection of the state quo, cannot establish the right of veto; as he says, that legality is not invariable about the right of deciding the citizens; as is said to be the foundation of the Basque nation, and to acknowledge it as a faculty of negotiation between the peers, in order that the State should be equally equal to the state, and in order that the system should be enforced, so as to avoid judicial legislation. That's all you say, and I'll repeat it to you. All this is said here, right here. Therefore, I ask what proposition is, what proposition is. Or we shall go round and round again some years later on, with a book like this, something below the political state of the Eucharist, the President of Ibarche, or to answer the great challenges of this people, and make a proposition based on a democratic principle. To deny the right to decide is to deny the existence of this country, and you know it. And to update the historical rights you speak of is to refuse, and you know it. And now we talk about Madrid's water. I don't know if there's water in Madrid, but in hand, there's water in this parliament, in the General Council, in all the Central Councils, in the Armabas, Biscaia, and in all the councils of Gipuia, between the majority of the Union and the majority of the people, and it's for us to give an answer to that majority... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... and in all the councils of Gipulia, between the majority of the Union and the majority of the people, it is for us to give an answer to this majority, because we owe it to that majority. Thank you, President (...).
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Irriere, it is a way of making decisions, which belongs to the new political state of the legislature to answer. And I repeat, it's not a matter of decision, it's a matter of how, it's a matter of what I'm going to do to make this decision possible. As you know, the right of ruling is not legally regulated. As you know, this legislature admitted a law of the consuls and appealed to the Constitution courts. The Constitution Court gave an anti-critic judgment. Hence it is the work of this legislature to agree with the juridic articulation of the citizens to make a decision, to offer a strong and firm purpose to the people. My answer, as the President, is based on a firm conviction. Multiplicity is a value to protect and encourage. I think it is possible to advance into a new state, by means of the variety which this legislature reflects. I think it's possible to get an institutional agreement here, then that society can decide by refendum. I believe that what we call the right to decide in our time and political constitution, and in our social constitution, ought to be founded on the achievement of a political and institutions, which the people shall later have to confirm. In order to prevent it, the maximal definitions of the right of deciding ought to be avoided, to pass to a specific specification, which speculation and vagueness would avoid. Look, at least for the last five years, you've gone up to the one-sided side that's agreed on. And it's just that the key to our self-interest is to have a two-way security system. This is the foundation of our model, the institutional and political peculiarity. I have not seen in all this time either one or the other an effective decision, which breaks the legal order that is established. For the relation between the Forum and the Kingdoms of Spain was, in fact, founded on a compact of sharing sovereignty. Covenant of exercise of shared sovereignty, do not despise these concepts, all are important. An agreement between those who recognize and respect themselves to make institutional and political decisions from recognition of the unique capacity of Euskadi for decision-making and recognition that none of the parties can impose their decisions unilaterally. The institutions have a responsibility to lead a political and institutional pact that is subsequently ratified by Basque citizens: Pact and Democracy. The treaty and democracy. At the present day, the progress of the auto-engine requires that same formula to be updated according to the model of the Economy. The Economy of the Common-wealth, which has been able to win a greater political consent than the Constitution, and the State, may be the Example. That's the proposal of the political treaty. This example rests on loyalty and mutual respect. The agreement obtained must be a sphere of laws which will ensure that no change can be made without the consent of either parties. This principle is the foundation of any political relation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the American American Socialists, members of the planetal Plantion, Housing and Transport Division, about the number of travellers of Eukot's voyages through the pandema." Mr. Donalza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u13	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning, all of you. We've had a long, bad, difficult, hard period for a long time, really rough, all over the world, but fortunately we're at the gates to overcoming these bad times. Now that it is time to take stock and look to the future, now, precisely now, that we are already at the door of overcoming this pandemic and leaving behind these long, hard and difficult months, it is also time to take stock of the response that our public services have given to citizens in such a delicate situation. One thing we have learned from all this is that unity of action is fundamental, that collective responsibility and collaboration between institutions is more necessary than ever and that public services are a good and almost more than a good a right in themselves. Without a doubt, it is time to support these services, to modernize them, adapting them to the times that come, making it possible for them to be the indispensable tool for providing people with the highest quality of life. Our public transports have certainly suffered in these times too. Public transport has had to adapt to the measures, needs and circumstances that have been taking place throughout this pandemic, interrupting its service in the face of a global confinement, guaranteeing minimum services so that the citizens who provided essential services to the rest, could move to their workplaces, adapting the timetables and lines to the influx of users, eliminating the special services in the absence of mass events, but, in turn, reinforcing and adapting the devices to comply with the standards set by the health authorities; a period of adaptation continues to provide the best possible service. Certainly, it is a good time to look back, but only and exclusively to take stock and take appropriate measures to boost services and to face the future with full guarantees. That is why, Mr. Counsellor, I ask you: What has been the evolution of the number of passengers in the services operated by Euskotren during 2020 and 2021? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u14	Thank you. [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... Mr. Counsellor, I ask you: What has been the evolution of the number of passengers in the services operated by Euskotren during 2020 and 2021? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u15	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u16	Thank you, President. Mr Andueza, in fact, public transport, like many other sectors, has been greatly affected by the effects of the pandemic, with very significant decreases in the number of passengers, especially during 2020, a year when restrictions on mobility have been high. However, as far as 2021 is concerned, a trend towards recovery towards pre-COVID-19 levels of use is beginning to be seen. In fact, until last August, the number of passengers transported throughout 2021 in all services operated by Euskotren has stood at 19,600,000 people; it is three and a half million more than passengers transported in the same period in 2020, although 26% less than in 2019. For services, we observe a progressive improvement in all usage data. As far as the year goes, 12.1 million rail travellers have been counted, representing a recovery of 20% from the previous year 2020, and 78% of precovid levels are already circulating. The same is true for tram services, both in Bilbao and in Vitoria Gasteiz, where there is also a upward trend. Last year, in the midst of the pandemic, the use of the Bilbao tram fell to 50% and that of the Vitoria-Gasteiz tram to 55. Well, these data have been improving over the course of this year 2021, with an increase in the use of 15 and 20 % respectively, and today in Bilbao it is circulating at 65 % and in Vitoria-Gasteiz at 70 % prepandemic levels. There is also an improvement in the road service that Euskotren manages in Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, which this year has already recovered 77% of travellers. I would also like to note that a year and a half later, in special services, on Sunday 19 September, the specific reinforcements were taken for the Royal Society parties in the Reale Arena. With the increase of the pitch to 60%, from Euskotren it was decided to offer the same services as in any pre-pandemic party, with the aim of facilitating the hobby that could be distributed on the trains and trying to avoid concentrations to the extent possible. Furthermore, it should be noted that 100 % of capacity is already used with all operational services and that only certain night trains are restricted, as indicated by the health authorities. We hope that this trend of recovery will be consolidated and that the good news on the evolution of the pandemic will continue. From Euskotren we will be very attentive to the decisions that will be decreed according to this evolution and we will continue to take all the measures within our reach so that public transport will continue to recover and increase users progressively. Because the Government, as it could not otherwise be, maintains its commitment to public transport as a backbone of mobility in Euskadi. Sustainable and quality transport accessible to all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u17	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, "The hatred of Mi is made by the members of Podemos-To the President by the legislature of the Antice, by the materials of prison resources and means of human resources by the efficiency of Euskhidi." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u18	Thank you, ma'am. Well, in our state, in the state of 1979, we get our jurisdiction over prisons. But we had to wait a lot to do that. The moment at May, in which the transfer agreement had come, was signed, and today the transfer will take full effect. It's been five months since my signature was delivered until today. And in the five months, we've known a few things. The other was introduced in May by a document which was presented by the Government, by which the standard of the Eucata prison was established. And just yesterday, this camera, there was a chance to re-enjoy... He's going to be the Basque Agency in Social Society and start working in January. We also learned that at the end of the day the government made an agreement with prison officials, and the good news is that they're still working in prisons. But many things are still incognites, we do not know them. And that's why I'd like to ask you, today, that this prison handful is going to start. I'd like to ask you whether the government will take a step to management and organization of prisons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u20	Thank you... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. A woman of hatred, yes, one of us today, has taken hold of the euska prisons. It's a certainty after 42 years, our new self-portrait step. And our first step and responsibility has been to plan and organize a calm transfer. We've made several decisions for this quiet transfer. And I think we should take what we should take next time as a foundation. That is to say, to hand over prison duties, to strengthen management behavior, to renew service instructions and orders, and to open a new budget program for the end of the event. This means that the most urgent expenses of this year will be made, and we have arranged to negotiate the terms of transfer employees at the sactorial table, as you remarked, signed by the union with the greatest presence in prisons. And by this agreement, they will be able to maintain the general conditions of labour for two years, and to perform some immediate improvements. All these decisions, I believe, will be established by all these decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u23	I think we must see, see, and take holiday for centuries, as an opportunity to do things right. In this sense, I don't quite understand, really, for the last time... the conflict that was created yesterday about the symbols. Nor, in this sense, is it not the best thing to think, that even the name of Cartzel has changed, especially when the countries are placed in which prisons are stigmatized. I think the vacation unit should take advantage of it just to be stigmatized by the prison itself. And that's what we can do if we do things right and we follow a direct prison policy. Mr Jaime Tapia said at the beginning of this month that the aim is to ensure that 40% of prisoners are in semi-freedom. How do you do that? That's what we need resources for. The lehendakari has commented that a budget plan is being considered. Indeed, resources are needed. And so far the only resources we know are the €500,000 that have been planned to subsidize socio-laboral inclusion projects. Okay, but what else, what else is going to be done? There is also, and I would also like to draw attention to, the bases for the implementation of prison models of April 2021, where the daughters and children of women deprived of their liberty are concerned, which will serve the best interests of the child (...) with the deprivation of liberty of their mothers. How do you do that? That also requires resources. These issues are things we need to know to make a correct, good prison policy. In short, the resocialization of prisoners and prisoners is the main objective of prison policy. I would like to highlight here the experience in Navarra prison that has occurred, that in September there is a film cycle on reintegration and restorative justice in Iruña prison. And, following Maixabel's projection, for example, there has been nothing but 200 requests for restorative meetings. Finally, let's take the opportunity to do things right and to get social social society and social society...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatch, you've often used a chance. And, indeed, this Basque Parliament has just approved the creation by law of Aukerak, also with its support, The Basque Agency for Social Reinsertion. It is the tool to advance in the management and in the prison organization. The objectives are to improve the possibilities of resocialization of convicted persons, to increase compliance with semi-freedom regimes, to protect the rights and interests of victims and to achieve greater security with less recidivism. On the other hand, we have established coordination relations between the departments involved: Education, Safety, Health or Work with Equality, Justice and Social Policies. We have initiated collaboration with institutions that provide services in prisons, such as universities or religious denominations. We are drawing up an agreement with Eudel for the development of work for the benefit of the community. We will prioritise the inclusion of the gender perspective and the situation of women in prisons, the protection of the daughters or children of convicted persons, mental health problems, restorative justice programmes, to which you have referred, labour integration, integration of public policies or strengthening cooperation in the third sector. The draft Budgets 2022 will provide for the commitment of precise expenditure to implement our road map. And I hope that all these concerns that you have expressed will also be included in the draft budgets and will be supported. In any case, it will be that road map that also sets the basis for the development of the Basque prison model. You know this road map that has been presented in this House. So these are the steps you take, but they say the first is the most important, and that's... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ...that has been presented in this House. So these are the steps you take. But it is said that the first is the most important, and that is what we have given to-day or yesterday. Today's marked day, yes. Eighty-five years ago, the first state of Euskadia was admitted one day, and we celebrate it with a new step to strengthen our auto-gours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "The question is, as Charles Iturgaz, the popular Group Angulo Euscals, a member of the Ciudadans made for the president, respecting the decision of the courts." My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u27	Eskerrik asko legebiltzaburu andrea, jaun-andreok, lehendakari jauna. Since the beginning of the pandemic, his Government had received important courthouses for failing to adequately protect ertzainas, toilets in front of COVID-19 for football grounds or for the closure of the hotel shop, among others. The inability of that Government to justify its decisions was a matter of concern and its reaction to contrary judgements was more worrying. Not a single reflection, rectification, have you merely charged against judges without resorting to decisions that are so critical, that is, without legal arguments capable of challenging those decisions. We have seen you react from the very beginning, speaking of respect yes, but demanding judges here with country sensitivities. The resolutions to you, to your political party. Resolutions have been spelt out as anti-autonomous or contempt for science. Personal attacks on judges have been shameful. Their professionalism has been questioned by saying that they do not know the issues on which they pronounce or exceed their competence, and it has been affirmed, in the end, that the Basques see judges and the judiciary as something alien to the country. Sadly, you're making a pitiful scale of words against the judges. You only limit the legality of the judges to those cases which agree with you. It looks like the judges don't have to apply the law if they don't give them the right reasons for the Euskio or the Jeltzai of the Basque Party. But let me tell you that for you country sensibility means submission to the Basque Government, compliance or non-compliance with the law. That is, country sensibility means judges with Eusko Label or one who leave court. And I wonder lehendakari: do judges have country sensitivities when they give amparo, amparo to the Basques against the decisions of their government?, to give reason to ertzainas and hoteliers is to lack country sensitivities?, to recognize the lack of protection of health care workers is to ignore the issues on which judges pronounce themselves? It gives you the feeling you carry against judges, because for you that other Basques go to court and win, it is more or less unbearable for you. That is why I ask you: do you consider the reactions of your Government and your party to the successive unfavourable judgments of the courts to be appropriate in a State governed by law?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u28	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Iturgaiz, I would like you to specify the zu, zuek, zuen, you, when referring to me, the lehendakari, or the government in your case. And in any case, I'm going to give you an accuracy. The judicial decisions handed down by the Administrative Litigation Chamber of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country are not judgments, they are orders that have not entered into the substance of the matter, and the Chamber has resolved within very short time-limits requests for precautionary measures pending the resolution of the substance of the matter. I could talk to him from when we're also waiting for sentences. Anyway, the fairest thing in a legal state is to fill up legal decisions, and that's what's been done by Euskeleon: We have respected and fulfilled judicial decisions. At the same time, when we thought that the gravity of the situation required it, we justly expressed our dissent. And I want to remind you that the report from the court's Department of Sale, which he wrote himself, had confessed to the legality of the critics of the court's judicial resolutions. It could not be otherwise, for the principle of contradiction and the critical elements of a democratic system are the principles of a democratic system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u31	Lehendakari, the orders are judicial decisions as well, but that is not the crux of the question I was asking you, because respecting those court decisions, also respecting the Basques, what I was telling you, that you did not want to enter into this issue, respecting tens of thousands of Basques who have obtained the support of Justice in the face of the government's action in the past year. You are revolting against the judges, but you are actually attacking the daring of those who are suing your Government, lehendakari, before the judges. And it seems like if you don't want to accept that division of powers, because that's the important thing, applying the law and having country sensitivity for you sometimes is to give reason to a certain political party. Already (?) That you want me to make a difference between government and your party. If ertzainas, sanitaires or hoteliers, the same goes for, disagree with your Government, it seems that they have to endure, because the Basque Government cannot be questioned or defeated. As I said before, Justice with Eusko Label must always give you the reason. From what you then comment and say, perhaps this is your plan, I do not know whether that will be your new status, lehendakari, that of a justice subordinate to the Basque Government. But luckily, whether you like it or not, still tens of thousands of Basques can see their reason recognized by the courts in this country, fortunately for all of them, because those who have won them in the courts are Basques exercising their constitutional rights, lehendakari. Justice has restored the rights that you did not want to give them and that...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u32	Thank you, time is up, Mr. Iturgaz. Mr. President, your word is... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ...justice has restored the rights that you didn't want to give them and that...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u33	Thank you, time is up, Mr. Iturgaz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u35	Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Iturgaiz, if you saw yourself, or you or your party were subject to a lawsuit, wouldn't you like the courts to give you reason? You've talked about decisions now, you've talked about judgments before. Repeat: a car is not a sentence. And we're waiting for sentences months after a serious pandemic situation. We're waiting for sentences. You've talked about winning. We're waiting for sentences, Mr. Iturgaiz. You know that neither I nor anyone on behalf of the Basque Government has personally attacked any judge or delegitimized the judiciary. Respect for and compliance with judicial decisions is compatible in democracy with the exercise of reasoned and well-founded criticism. The Basque Government's criticism is based on two arguments. First, the application of identical measures has obtained diametrically opposed decisions in different autonomous courts. The fight against the pandemic in Euskadi has developed with fewer tools and more legal insecurity than in other communities. And this insecurity, in the midst of a pandemic, has no meaning or justification. Secondly, all the decisions taken by the Basque Government have been based on the opinions of a scientific-technical commission which, aligned with the health authorities, analyses on a daily basis ten epidemiological indicators and the evolution of the pandemic. The work of scientists and epidemiologists deserves respect. And its expert approach to public health defence must have value, also in the judicial sphere. In fact, he's had it. And I have not experienced any further disapproval of your professionalism as that which occurred in Euskadi, Mr Iturgaiz. I have refused to prosecute the fight against the pandemic. First, it makes no sense to get a resolution with three or six or eight months of delay, when it is no longer useful. In the pandemic, action has required immediate action. Secondly, delays and contradictions between judicial decisions have only contributed to the confusion of society. Avoiding adding more confusion and discomfort has been a reason for not submitting resources. However, though we have discovered the difficulties and difficulties of Euskadin, the answer given to pandemia makes us to the level of the most advanced countries. And this was fortunately possible because most of the institutions have been working together. In fact, most of them have shown a constructive position in front of a new, unknown, and very serious situation. Others, I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, Madia Martíne, a member of the Mistho group, a member of the Parliament for the President, on the previous negotiations about education." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u38	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. We have known, through the media, the movements of your party to achieve the fallacious goal of a broad consensus on the future Basque law of education. Without light or stenographers, PNV and EH Bildu already approach positions in sensitive subjects such as educational models and the coexistence of public education with concerted and private. We understand that these first talks follow a timetable that arises from the Government itself, that you know and share and that these movements with Bildu will follow others with other political groups. That is why we ask him: what steps does this government plan to take to achieve this necessary educational pact that it says it is looking for?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u39	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, the Basque Government, the Basque Government has been talking for a long time to reach a consensus on a new education law. And on the basis of the eight-year work, we have considered it possible and desirable to advance one year the drafting of the Education Bill. Our aim is to refer it to the House next year, and it will be here where the education bill is discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr Urkullu too, for the answer. Education is everything. It is the ability to think, to improve, to move forward. It's past, present, future. It's critical vision, it's responsibility, it's building a country. Good education is solidarity, it's prosperity, it's respect. But it can also be the breeding ground for injustice, discrimination, privileges, hatred and resentment. As you know, Vox's bet is that of a national consensus in the field of education, a country project. Equality between Spaniards, and not autonomous laws that form an amalgam of approaches and ways of acting with our young people, which complicate achieving the excellence that should be the goal to pursue. Spain does not need a Basque education law for that reason, but let us talk about what we know and which does not invite optimism. Everyone in this House knows that EH Bildu will never work for an education law that captures the needs of the entire population of this community. Its objectives are others, confessed and known, partial and deeply insolidary. Hence, without knowing the details of this approach of positions PNV-EH Bildu, we can assume that if there is agreement it will be a bad news for those who see with stupor the drift of the Basque educational system, extremely ideologicalized and shunned towards visions... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... there is agreement will be a terrible news for those who see with stupor the drift of the Basque educational system, extremely ideologicalized and shunned towards nationalistic visions of history, of the future and of languages. We have witnessed the progressive elimination of model A, a bad news for thousands of families and for thousands of young people who face the many difficulties of learning, in addition to those arising from the obligation to work with a language that is not theirs; they do not handle well. It also has a negative impact on their academic results, on their abilities. Because we all know that these results are better when the mother tongue is used in learning, which also, in certain cases, is Basque, but in the Basque Country it is still mostly Spanish. Nothing justifies that apparent bet for more Basque, for a single model in Basque. By the way, this is an obvious discrimination for the provinces with less implementation of the Basque language. Those in which the policies of imposing a language that is not the natural one of its population hurt the most. And another worrying issue that has transcended in the press is that of cohabitation of public and private education. So far, you've defended that cohabitation. What are you going to do now? Will it yield to the pressures of EH Bildu and Podemos, or will it not? In any case, the lack of transparency with which this process has begun, we believe, is a very bad start. And there will also be time to talk about the results of the Basque education system: worse than those of other communities with much less resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u43	Eskerrik aso, Martinez andrea. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, on the results of the Basque education system, I have already offered you all the answers in the plenary general policy debate; you will read the session log again, and you will find there all the answers to your formulations. In any case, I will tell you that in October 2013, two legislatures ago, we approved the Heziberri 2020 Plan: the framework of the Basque educational model. That, in June 2018, in the previous legislature, we prepared with the educational community, with the educational community and with the School Council the document of agreement for education, with five areas of confluence: modernization, coexistence, languages, evaluation and autonomy of the centers, and 21 bases for the agreement. And this agreement was referred to this Parliament, and it was approved. In October 2020, we adopted the Government Programme, which includes the adoption of an education law that responds to the future challenges of our education system. And throughout the past course, the Department of Education has maintained a permanent dialogue with the educational community; repeat, educational community. This dialogue is being maintained, and the conclusion is that there is a broad agreement to move forward in an educational pact: Hitzarmena hezkuntza. The current Education Act is 28 years old. All parliamentary groups have expressed the desirability of updating and adapting them, to a greater extent following the experience of the pandemic. Also the educational community, repeater, educational community, supports this goal. However, the former law was the result of the consensus, and the aim is for the new one to widen that consensus. For this reason, the process must be ordered and, to the extent possible, discreet. And this is the time to listen to the educational community, to listen to their ideas and to listen to their proposals. The Government is working directly with all actors. And then, on the basis of Hitzarmena hezkuntza, we will draw up the bill, which will be referred to this House. This will be the space for dialogue with parliamentary groups and for moving towards the maximum possible consensus for the adoption of the law: hezkuntza legea. First, then, the basis of the educational agreement, and then the legislative consensus. In any case, and responding to two questions that you point out in your question, in the justification of your written question, you say that the Education Act is focused on the imposition of models entirely in Basque; this statement is false. You say that the Law calls into question the future of concerted education in the Basque Country, which you also referred to in your second intervention, and that is also a false statement. I said that the process should be orderly, and discreet as possible. And I add that it is also true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "To ask the question, Astoria Homebarria Astorina EH Collectors to the President, the President of Errioxa in Errixa." Mrs. Housekeeper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u46	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Mrs. Tapia, with all due respect, but the question wasn't for you, but for President Urkullu. It's very informative that he didn't want to answer. It's about ITP that the government has shown us its attitude, isn't it? but the interests of Abar Errisha are, as it seems, not of their own rank. We don't know why he didn't answer, but I'm going to lose. On the 10th of September, the Registration Council agreed to appeal to the Administration, in opposition to the decision of the Mahasty of the Arababa, against the lack of appeal of appeal. The Presidente of the Riox first announced that she would go to the meeting, but from the government as often as there had been no representative. That's why we'd like to know, Mrs. Tapia. Why doesn't President Urkullu, or you, or any other member of Abar Errioxe, regulate the decisions he has made by his own hands?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. First of all, madam, you're not well informed. The New Year's representative was there, at that meeting, as always. Always, all of you, the whole fun, the entire department, the president's head, he's been willing to help defend every economic sector. But it's not just decency, but action, next to every sector, to help and carry on their challenges... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... He appeared. But it is not only decency, but action. Next to every sector, you work to help and to continue their challenges, to be economical, to be institutional, to be any other kind of help. We're working with the Euscatian wine, with the wine sector very hand, and it's obvious at this moment that this wine was produced by that Basque Wine Office a year ago. There, the Togaries of the Riot of Abaraba, and the three First Orders of the Fat, and the three Names of the Fat, and the cider or beer, which proceed from the production of the place, in order to aid them in the market, in the State, or in the international. Eta Arabako Errioxako ardoen egoera eta upategiak aztertuta, zer gertatu da eta zer egin dugu. 2016ko ustailaren hamalauan, ABRAk, Asociación de Bodegas de Rioja Alavesa, erregistu zuen eskaera bat ba zerbait berria sortzeko. They register an application to form a new designation of origin under the name Arabako Mahastiak/Vineyards of Álava. This register forms it before the Basque administration, is registered, the Basque Government receives it and is processed accordingly. We act with responsibility to fulfil our obligations and competences, and from the respect of the companies that make this request. On 14 January 2020, the Basque Government issued a favourable resolution, estimated ABRA's request and was published in the Official Gazette on 28 January 2020, giving itself two months so that opposition could be lodged. During this period, various oppositions were presented, including that of the Regulating Council of the Denomination of Qualified Origin Rioja. On 10 March 2021, the decision of the Director of Quality and Food Industries of the Basque Government to issue a decision in favour of the application for protection of that name was issued. And against this decision of April 23, 21, the Regulatory Council filed an appeal. It is in this context that the plenary session of the Regulatory Council is held in Logroño on 10 September to take into account one of the items on the agenda, which is the lodging, where appropriate, of the administrative dispute. At that meeting, the Council decided to authorise the President to bring such an action. Our representative, of course, voted against, everyone will know from their responsibility what they voted against. I'm sorry, then, his duties are clear to this subject, and he always respects the cellars they want to put in it, and those who want to stay out of it, and those who don't want to get into that harbar Errišošo, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mrs. Housekeeper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u50	Tapia andrea, after the meeting that I have commented the socialist president, Concha Andreu, appeared before the media to express her support for the unity and uniqueness of the Denomination of Origin Rioja and stress that her government works in line with the Regulatory Council, and that since its Executive reject the initiative of Vineyards of Álava for its lack of meaning and foundation. But we have not come today to talk to you about wine or vineyards of Álava, because in the previous political course we have reached important agreements with the groups that support your Government, even though they have struggled to get closer to our position. Despite this timid change, Ramiro González has been the only one who, contrary to what he has done on many occasions, has come out to demand respect for the project and its processing, and has described the attitude of the Government of La Rioja as unacceptable interference. Moreover, he said that this was an unprecedented politicization and that the Denomination of Origin was linked to a single territory. Who has consented? Well, Mr. Urkullu and you, Mrs. Tapia. Because then nobody has come out to defend neither the legitimate interests of Basque companies supporting the project nor the decisions taken democratically in an association of the Basque Autonomous Community, nor those taken in this respect by the Basque Government in the exercise of its powers. The President of La Rioja has appropriated the representation of the Denomination of Origin, and unilaterally criticized the legitimate decision of ABRA and the Basque Government to process the request for Alava vineyards. And no one, no one, has set his limits. Inaction and abandonment in the defense of Rioja Alavesa, which has been a constant in recent years. Because you say you go to meetings, but many of the meetings don't go, have been absent, and mute many times from those who have attended. Hai onartezine yes. Koadrila from Erriaxa is not Errixa, it's Aba, the Basque Country. It's a responsibility to me to treat any organizations, euskal institutions, Abar Errisha, its corporations, and its institutions with no doubt unrecognizable respect. You must take that responsibility upon yourself. Besides, he cares to make me respect the decisions he gets from his hands, even though he's a political member of the government. The presidents, you and the rest of the departments, the socialists and the socialists, have to stop all attempts to interfere. We don't know why you haven't done it before, but today you have a chance to do it. To defend the country and its interests as the interest of the government, and to restrain any absurdity that was in Arabar Erriox, and independent of our community. Use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u52	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Gure weretzukizuna bete dugu, tramitatu dugu, éta ez gara gu hemen histrionikoki bieste alde batek eta bieste erkidego batek egin behar duena esateko. Guk gurea egiten dugu, was egokian, age horrella egin dugu. It is not the Basque Government that is going to intervene histrionically in what another community is going to do, we will of course defend our actions before the courts and the courts because it is our competence. That's the way to act. We have processed what a series of Rioja Alavesa wineries want to carry forward, because it is their right and we have understood it, but, of course, we are not going to make this a political struggle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Laura Garrido Knör, the popular team of Euskals-Ciudadans, a member of the United States of the United States as to the president's plan of the Euscadian demographic challenge." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments. The President, at the beginning of the law, we signed a challenge on this parliament. And the purpose of this agreement was, on the one hand, that el objectivo de dicho accerdo al reto demográphic, al disarlar... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ...honetan. Eta akordio honen helburua zen, alde battik, the objective of this agreement in relation to the demographic challenge in developing policies for the promotion of birth; aid for reconciliation; development of active ageing; also all that has to do with equality; and also the struggle for the depopulation of the population. A second point referred to and specifically urged the Basque Government to draw up an interdepartmental, cross-sectoral and cross-cutting plan in relation to the demographic challenge. Nine months after the adoption of that agreement, we have no news of the policies and programmes that have been put in place by your Government on this relevant issue. Which is the Y le preguntamos that has been followed to face the demographic criteria for this long year.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u55	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, Mrs Garrido, as you may well say, is one of the popular goals of our government program to answer a demographic challenge based on that consent. And right now we're preparing a deal to cooperate with the institutions and civil society in order to set a 2030-to-one strategy in front of the demographic. And we will present this document in the parliament before the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u58	Yes, the President. President, you said you'd give an answer, but we're waiting for the answer. Mr Lehendakari, you tell me that you are going to respond as a government to the demographic challenge, the problem we have. It is not a new problem, it is a structural problem and, in this regard, I would like to say that we regret that you have failed us once again, you have not fulfilled your commitments. You, as Lehendakari of the Basque Government, who presides over this government, have not fulfilled your commitment. The past legislature in this area has done nothing and in this legislature it is one of the essential points of the government agreement: to draw up an interdepartmental plan on the demographic challenge, is commitment 140. But, Mr Lehendakari, it is that in the agreement, to which I referred, of 29 October, it was mentioned that the Basque Government in nine months had to draw up a specific plan on this issue. More than nine months have passed. You also had the summer so that you could take advantage of it to implement this plan. We are in September, a year of parliamentary term has passed. I will remind you of some figures, but you have to keep them very in mind. Eustat himself spoke of a very alarming forecast: for the year 2061 that Euskadi would lose 20% of the population; that birth in the first quarter of 2021 compared to the first quarter of last year has decreased by 12.5 %; that the population over 65 will increase by 72 % by 2061. You know that the enrolments of course 2021-2022, 0 to 2 years have decreased almost 6%. Therefore, Mr Lehendakari, we have to regret once again and stress the inaction of your Government in an essential matter, in a crucial matter, in a matter in which the Government you preside cannot be missing and has been missing for a long time. There was this issue, and I have to say this to you, Mr Lehendakari – and it is also that we have a shared diagnosis, and that is why we reached an agreement on 29 October this year – is a sign of your Government's paralysis in matters that must be the priorities and that must not only worry, but occupy the Basque Government. I understand that you have been very busy with the pandemic, but this issue cannot be delayed, it cannot be delayed, Mr Lehendakari, because it is an important crucial issue and, as I say, it has been coming for a long time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u59	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Garrido, the demographic situation is both primary worries and challenges, both from a local standpoint and from a global point of view. It is true that the productions of Euscadicus and of the state place us among the countries of Europe which have the worst demographic balance. Pandemia has aggravated this situation. And, as has been said before, it is one of the targets we have predicted in our government program. The criteria of this strategy are as follows: a long-term view, a cooperation and social commitment between institutions. "Missed, liabilities", well, the Demographic Challenge Strategy has identified five axes of action: support for the emancipation of young people; direct support for the construction of family projects; promotion of the autonomous and full life of older people; migration integration; and rural upgrading. And each axis will have specific initiatives and actions, and this strategy will be presented this year. I appreciate your understanding of what our dedication to the pandemic has been. Yes, we have been dedicated to the pandemic. In any case, the strategy will be presented this year and will have the measures to be implemented, funding, implementation deadlines and the evaluation system. Let us not expect instant-effect formulas, these policies arise as a shared, sustained and sustainable strategy in the medium term. We are facing a country challenge, not a government challenge, but a country challenge for the next 30 years. And in the design of this new strategy we do not start from scratch, the Basque institutions have in recent years deployed actions with policies aimed at families, responsible reconciliation, employment, housing or social protection. In January 2018 the Basque Government, outlaws and Eudel signed the Basque Pact for Families and Children, a road map that is embodied in the Inter-institutional Plan of Support for Families. We have referred the Youth and the Plan Gazette Bill to Parliament. They have the same objective: to advance the age of emancipation. And this year we will have a country plan, agreed with the other public institutions and in which... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... if the Gazte Plana have the same objective: to advance the age of emancipation. And this year we will have a country plan, agreed with the rest of the public institutions and in which the various government departments will participate. And this plan will give priority to policies to support the autonomy of youth, the family, co-responsible birth and migration policies. We need a long-term agreement that is oriented and focused on a central objective, creating the conditions for our young people to be able to develop an autonomous life project, an agreement to promote the emancipation capacity of our young people and, consequently, to have the number of daughters and children they want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, Josu Estarrona Elizdo, the members of the EH Collectal Committee of the People, the Chief of the Government and Auto-Robernus, about the least of those who are to be executed by an organ such as the cabinet of the Sociological Prosetricion." Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u62	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Good morning, Mrs. Garast. My God, he's a member of the opening government contract, a member of the Open Govertement Partnerish, among others. When he gives services, he's engaged to be transparent and open in programmes and prettys. The cabinet of the Sociological Prospect is far from that engagement. We need astronomical units to measure the distance between the cabinet and those engagements. And that's why today we asked you if this cabinet works out all these transparency and criteria.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u63	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u64	Mr. President, president, chief of departments, congressman, good morning to all. Mr. Estarrona, you ask my opinion. And, in my opinion, the cabinet of the Sociological Prospation does its work with all professionality. From 1986, 35 years old, it gives us an updated information on the situation and the development that is the reality of euscal society. All investigations are published. They are sent to the legislature in the course of the day. All examinations are published at the website as well. In all the investigations made by the cabinet, all technical information, questionnaires, each variable, data files, all. So, yes, this cabinet has enough to fill the minimum.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u66	You know that he has only one prayer, and that is the decree, namely, a decree which establishes organic structure and functional, that of the President, this time only 2021 and there is nothing else. That's all there is. These are three points in a very critical manner which are held in the direction of the board. On the one hand, it's about to continue the president's work program. On the other hand, it is to give the President direct assistance, this direction, and thirdly the responsibility of the cabinet of the Sociological Prosccio. This is all we know. This is all we know, that is, nothing or almost nothing. But from that almost nothing we can draw a clear conclusion, because that the president of a government has one or more trusted advisers is logical and desirable, that one of them is the one of maximum confidence, even becoming or becoming almost in his shadow, well, it's something normal... But what is not normal is that the same person is the one who designs the surveys, the opinion studies that a government elaborates, without anyone else's participation, because we all know that this generates trends, creates states of opinion and creates (...) social (...). It is not normal for it not to be regulated by law or to have regulations. It is not normal that there is no plural council, as is usual in this type of organism, which does not exist. It is not impartial for the personal adviser of the lehendakari to decide which questions are asked or which should not be asked. It is not impartial how these questions are formulated and how the results are published. It is not transparent that an opinion centre does not have a work plan and it is public, which does not have it. It is not transparent that the Cabinet does not produce annual memoirs, which does not. It is not open governance that has neither its own web and that only final reports are available, yes, in pdf, but without data file, without open data and without any format to be able to operate with them. It is not open that this Cabinet should never give explanations at parliamentary or anywhere else and to anyone, etc., etc., etc., etc. It does not meet any of the minimums of that alliance by the open Government of which you are members. And so we introduced and discussed this same Monday, at the committee, a proposition which has hitherto been accepted twice in this Chamber. And what we required, was, by unanimous consent, received in both former times, the other proposal of regulating the law. But this legal proposition was intended to secure neutrality, objectivity, and impartiality. And, as has been said, received at the former times, this government of the Absolute majority has blocked it. He doesn't have a leg or anything. And the governments that support, I'm sorry, the parties that support the government have not been up to it. But you, as I said, are members of that alliance for open and transparent government, and you have made a number of commitments in a certain direction, I think you should take steps and regulate this Cabinet. And, for that, Mrs Garamendi, I sincerely believe that you, as a government, must overcome that concept of information service, in the service of the government's interests, in order to devote it to the knowledge and study of Basque reality, or otherwise, to take steps to ensure that we actually have a Sociological Prospecting Office and not the Cabinet of the Friendship for the sociological construction that we have today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u67	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u68	Yeah. Mr. Estarrona, one thing is clear, it's undeniable. The work of the cabinet of Prosception is not wavering. In society there has been no such kind of polemics or impatience. And there aren't even any professionals following his exams. From 1986, the EukMME has received public opinion through the proscinct cabinet. The sociological exams are very useful for us to know the moods of society and the interests of citizens... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... The sociological examinations of fun are very useful for us to know the moods of society and protect the interests of the community at the time when they plan public policies. On that score, you've also accepted the role. But it is not only useful to the Government, but also useful and reliable instruments of all the legislatures. For university and other research centers, all the information offered is useful and reliable. And so it is, on the one hand, that this work is directed and filled with all professionality, and on the other, with complete transparency. In this parliament you have received the report directly, and at the same time it hangs at eucaius, and stands before all the people. 11 things have happened in 2007, as soon as the other proposal concerning this matter has been approved. 7. this was a law, and now 12th. We're in law. In the meantime, this government has taken a strong and important step from the point of view of transparency and of good government. We publish various data in Open Date. We have an open platform to report the government initiative. We answer citizen's concerns and doubts. We have a government program of precise and precise indicators. We develop the reforming and reforming forms of government, and the strategic plan for re-establishing. And, of course, we get information that this congressman requests within the deadline. And with that commitment we'll go on, making strong strides. In conclusion, you called me to this tribe to suspect a career service and a reputation. Obviously there's no reason for that. So you answer your question directly. In my opinion, the cabinet of the Sociological Prospectius does the least engagements with transparency and good government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interpologies made by the members of the Ostero Galvirdo team for EH development, patience, and the chief department of the Environment, concerning the damages caused by the increase of the rate of energy." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u70	Good morning, everyone. Mrs. Tapia, good morning. Summer, how are you? Well, I'm glad. It seems to me that the terrible elevation of the rate of energy forces us to pay attention to the situation. For the last few months, the rates of energy supply have been very conspicuous. And behind this, among others, lies the height of the prices of several of the myrgetic fountains. To put down a few instances, the oil oil that is referenced in Europe has been promoted to 85% in the last year, the price of the gas has been multiplied nearly five times at the same time, and in the last quarter to 130, and the rate of the powerlight has done a great deal. And in the electric bill, the energy section has been up 500% since the year before, breaking all historical prices. Today we are paying more than 200 euro megawatttium an hour. There's a lot of tension with the increase of the energy price, beginning with the most simple citizens, to the whole economy of the world. I shall not begin to talk of the facilities which are now being given in China, of the unfortunate state of the United Kingdom, of the tension between Algiers and Marrucoco, or of the gas supply of Russia, but, more especially for Europe, we seem to have been engaged for months. And the rapid and general elevation of the prices of energy brings a great deal of damage to the public: It introduces a general increase of prices for merchandise, compromises the competency of certain sectors, damages competition in trade or industry, and perhaps leaves, perhaps, the most terrible consequence, the most vital provision necessary for thousands of people's lives. It must also be considered that before this elevation of prices, in the Araba, Biscaia, and in the gym, there were over 100,000 people who were unable to procure a state of spiritual welfare. And therefore we may conclude, that in the next few months the number of persons may be visibly increased, if not taken with extraordinary moderation. For though there be a great dispute about the rate of prices in structure, or in the determination of the co-uniture, or when it is explained what reasons are, every foresight says that in the months to come the price will continue to be high. And it's not just electricity, but it's heating system, it's transport too. And here, in February, the law of the neurogenic welfare which we presented was thrown into the garbage bin without discussion. We are conscious that the prices of most of the sources of energy are fixed at international prices, and that the price of electricity is fixed by the European and state-wide rules, i.e. we have a remarkable authority to correct this state. And, knowing also, that the measures hitherto acquired by the Government of the State will not be fully neutralized by those evils which have been mentioned. But we think it's important to give a strict discussion in front of the rate of energy, to explore what we can do here. But for that, I think we need a good diagnosis about what's going on. And lately, we have seen you say a great deal about energy, among other things, that a severe and honest dispute should be given, but I am not so sure that you apply to yourself that severity which you ask others. You've said so many things in front of the scandalal elevation of electricity, but I don't think what you haven't even said is as important as what you said. In your arguings, you're not the only one: The EVE director, who you're talking about energy Cluster and villages, you've given four reasons to explain the price of electricity. I think four, or bad, or at least not enough. And I'll explain. You're saying that the price rise responds to a kind of perfect storm, right?, that combines... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] At least not enough. And I'll explain. You are saying that the price rise responds to a kind of perfect storm, right?, that combines high consumption, low renewable production, increase in the price of CO2, increase in the price of gas. Let's take a look at this, do a little fact check. If we go to high consumption, and to which there is little wind, I think it is not true, simply, that is, it has made a comparison of consumptions, of prices, of the preponderance of some energies over others over the last four years, and it cannot be affirmed this I believe without failing to the truth. I mean, the consumption, and I've made today's comparison that's marking the price..., the record on October 1st today and the previous three years, and today we're in record prices and there's no more or less consumption, the consumption is completely similar. They walk the four days of the four different years around 24,000 megawatts. But if we go to the other side, once we rule out what this is about high consumption, which is not true, we go to the part of it is entering little wind, but it is that this is not working either, because for example, two years ago it was entering much more gas in the electricity system and prices were four times lower; that is, today we are paying electricity 400 % more than two years ago using less gas. Or last week the gas was there (?............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... They also attribute the dearth to the increase in the price of CO2 and to the high price of gas, and this is true, but it is partly true because it is incomplete, because it forgets something fundamental and I think we need to talk about this, because the high price of gas and gas having to pay for CO2 explains that electricity generation via gas is expensive, but not that all electricity is expensive. The rest of the electricity is expensive, because we pay all the light at the Basque generation price. That is the key issue, the marginalist system, and on this I have not heard you say anything being the key to everything. And you use all this argument to say that you need to install more renewables here. But here too you have to be honest and you have to explain that while self-consumption, energy communities, if they directly lower the bill to those people who install them, put wind farms, however, does not reduce the bill and I set the example of Nafarroa. Nafarroa, 85% of the electricity consumed in Nafarroa comes from wind turbines and they are paying the same as we, which we practically do not produce wind turbines, so here it would not be so much a question of installing renewables, but of what model of renewables we install. Because in fact, the Iberian system is one of the strongest renewable penetration, and it is where electricity is most expensive together with the UK and Italy, and what unites them precisely is the dependence of combined gas cycles, that is, more combined gas cycles higher prices. And here we have a structural problem, because even if renewable penetration increases, if the gas is going to remain the backup technology for a long time, and it is going to be, as we have not changed the pricing system, the gas is going to continue to mark the price (?) of all electricity. And even if right now there is a supply and demand mismatch, which is to be seen if it is going to be solved, we all know that the long-term trend is not going to be a cheap gas by the (?)finitude of the resource, not a cheap CO2. I would like to know your opinion on the pricing system and also on the tremendous overexposure to gas that we have in this country, because yes (?) we would depend on our own electricity generation, we would see that we are at 90% exposed to gas prices. And speaking of gas, let me also remind you that I do not agree at all and I think it is completely demagogic to link the dearth of the electricity and gas bill with not exploiting Araba's resources and if you do not explain to me how the costs of gas have reduced the deposits that are being exploited in La Rioja. What is actually bringing this system and this state of affairs are scandalous benefits, basically to three companies that are exercising all their market power to maximize profits, among other things, speculating with a common good that is water and with the big hydroelectric power at such a delicate time. The difference between the costs of generation and sale are making them have a profit margin of up to 2000 % because they generate... Iberdrola is generating in the large swamps at less than ten euros megawattage and is selling to more than 200 today. Three quarters of the same with nuclear also in the hands of three companies, Naturgy, Endesa and Iberdrola, and what have these companies done when it was decided that we had to place, that we had to cut the millionaire robbery? What they have done is blackmail, blackmail the government by taking consumers hostage. First with the threat of shutdown of your nuclear computer and then with the threat of a renewable investment cut. And you, instead of going out and defending consumers and especially the vulnerable, are shouting in the sky for Iberdrola, if legal certainty and so on. Security of supply at affordable prices, as the European directive states. Where you are, why don't you talk about this, you who you work for, ultimately. You don't seem to have much of a mind to take precautions, so I'll explain later on in the second round. But, well, at least we want to know how you see it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u71	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u72	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Otero, I hope you'd have had a good summer too, and you'd be willing to come to work in this legislature to get a real deal. Honesty and truth, everyone counts it as they care, right? Because you have made a number of allusions to us here in this government, I am not going to go into that debate. In the Euskon, and especially in this department, it's true that we're worried about the amount of energy cost, or what I said yesterday was all read or complete response. That's what I said, what you said, but other things. So, honesty, when we tell the truth, let's tell everything, even in this respect. So the cost of energy also affects enterprises and small consumers, and even those who pass the wrong way... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... and so did he. So the cost of energy also affects enterprises and small consumers, and even those that pass the wrong. That's why we work in the circle of our jurisdictions, we're directly involved with a long-term policy around energy. And to say that I never mentioned how the bill is arranged, how it works in a bill for every consumer, but also in the company, because perhaps you haven't read all that I've said. But not now, we started all this in 2013, 2013, about how the bill comes up with the ministries, and where we come from, especially in our business. So, it's true, we've lived a complicated summer and things are being complicated. You've mentioned so many subjects, I'm not going back into it. The prices exceed all bounds, and it seems to me that we have not yet reached the limit. Eta zerbait aipatu duzu garrantzitsua dena, the issue of security of supply, security of supply of all kinds of energies. Because we're just talking about a few things. And, in this case, we have experienced a really intense summer, in which we have only talked about the price of energy. And we have forgotten a topic that you too often deal with on many occasions, but in this case I have not heard from you, and that is what you were talking about about the IPCC Intergovernmental Group, where it was precisely that one of the main debates was that of the generation of renewables. And finally, the IPCC report, along with prices, I think we would have to unite the discussions and deal with them jointly with a single perspective. Yes, it is true that both aspects are united. Because if the costs of CO2 are actually rising, to which you referred, the cost of energy is rising, and we are also focusing on renewable energy and the cost of gas, which is the emitter of CO2, is also rising, but also because there is a part of little cassation at this time between supply and demand, which is leading us to suffer problems in many places, well, it is precisely because of the bet that is being made in favour of this action against climate change, in which we want to make a very rapid, very rapid energy transition, and this has its consequences. And one of them is also this one we're living. It's not the only reason, but it's interrelated. The energy cost formula is not a very simple question. And that's why I said it's convenient to approach that complexity in a way, let's say, rigorous, without distorting messages, in a quiet way and really address it in the long term and in a structural way. Because when the reform is carried out of how the energy bill is structured, in the Rajoy government by the way, it has not been changed and that which was good at that time, at that time, it has been seen that at this moment is not the most appropriate. I therefore believe that we need to carry out this review in an intensive way. And we need to make an appropriate review of that legal certainty as well. Because, it is true, we need legal certainty to allow energy prices to be adequate for all private users, but also for the business fabric, which in our case is, moreover, a relevant industry with an electro-intensive industry, which is currently suffering from a series of documentation that is being sent to them which is going to change absolutely the cost structure of its energy and which we believe is not appropriate to carry out at this time. If their energy bill was already complex and made them less competitive in Europe, at the moment if, in addition, an extra cost, which is certainly not applicable to our opinion, will be less competitive. We have, yes, and I sincerely believe so, in a perfect storm. And the electrical demand, the drop in wind power at a certain point, the one we're using less gas, the one we don't want nuclear, we don't want coal power plants, well, all that, all that in a joint way, is causing that storm. But we are not adding the factor that I was telling you, and it is that, after the stoppage that we have suffered as a result of the pandemic, all the industrial sectors are now being put into operation all at once. And that causes raw materials of all kinds to suffer, of course, little marriage between supply and demand, and we are suffering here in Mercedes, of course, as a clear example; we are also suffering logistical problems and we are suffering on the energy issue. If we think that we have to take the most energetic and climate transition, we must do it ourselves, and we must take the measures; otherwise another will make us superior to us. And since we are an industrial country, I think we must consider these two matters both by person and industry, and deal with the issues. And only three thoughts. One. It's true we must produce retactives. Why? Because we've decided that we don't want gas, because we don't want coal, because we decided that we don't want nuclear, so where do we get our energy? If we're going to make the bet solid, we'll have to go for the retivators. Number two. The decision we've made about the gas has its consequences. And if we consider a highly advanced country, as Holland is, with the bet for electrocution, I think the third country is the establishment of electric cars, what was its decision at this time? In order to keep the progress and security of the supply, he suddenly closed a well or a number of wells in '23 at Groning's, he suddenly said that we need to go on with it. What happened in Germany, I'm sure you've continued this entire election process? What happened? What did the people say? That the transition should be made, but that it should be ordered. And be careful that a quick transition like this could cause a vast socially restricted transition to people. And those people came to Mr. Scholz and he's trying to make another policy. Why? At this moment, and you say that you know that, too, we're wrong as Italy, but you didn't tell me that this summer, because France and Germany have coal and nuclear, something else happened. And I don't... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... You say it's bad as Italy, but you didn't tell me that this summer there's something else that happened because France and Germany have coal and nuclear, and I don't do it for coal or nuclear, but, be careful, because they're all there. And thirdly, let's really do for the most radical efficiency, which is absolutely necessary. For, in truth, if we say that CO2 fluids must be paid, and that the person who pollutes must be paid, the less the energy is used is much better. Therefore, these three relevant reflections. We need more renewable energy yes, because we've decided we're going to make an important bet for... in that action against climate change and, therefore, we do not want to have other sources of energy. So let's make a bet on renewable energy, because otherwise we're going to run out of anything. And, secondly, of course, we have to meet those goals of more energy, more storage. Because, if not, that system that we have had so far based on natural gas, which has given us comfort over the years, will disappear. You said yourself, "Natural gas is going to remain important." And the only reflection you've done this summer is: Is it more important or is it..., and I've done it many times in this rostrum, is it better to bring the gas from a place as complicated as Algeria with which it is going; from Russia, with the threats we have, or from Trinidad and Tobago? Is that better than owning it? Well, I think it's something we also need to discuss in a quiet way, without being scared. And, thirdly, we are going to work for energy efficiency. And, of course, from an instrument such as the Basque Energy Agency, which has been working for more than 40 years, I believe that intensive work has been done, without having regulatory capacity, the regulatory capacity will have to be discussed elsewhere, and I agree that it must be discussed and that all people must be given security, but the Basque Energy Agency is an instrument that has advocated replacing coal and oil with gas, with energy efficiency and with renewable energies. We have to keep going that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u74	I repeat, it's so important that you don't say what you're saying. Hitz egin duzu subasten inguruan, eszta?, 2013aren abenduan egon ziren aldaketa horien inguruan. Orduan (...) auction betan behera utzi ziren, ikusi zelako bazeudela undertaking batzuk botere nahikoa bazutela prezioak artifizialki neurtzeko, eta horrek ematen du la exceptionalidade state, no?, that the rise of megawattage directly, on the same day, becomes a rise of prices for people. In the Iberian system, for example, Portugal, it does not work that way, and that has to do with the market power exercised by large companies, on which, once again, it says nothing. And the question was, the question of the interrogation is, what are you going to do in front of this huge increase of energy prices? In front of what you've said, clarious, effective, I agree, the retractable energy bets must continue, I agree. But I think you've made it clear until the price system isn't changed, it won't have any effect. Because, klaro, you make an interpretation that it's an overweight that we have to pay for the climate change, and that's not what I was telling you, that's not the case. We don't have the ability to change it here, but we can all press on it. The problem here is marginistic system where we're paying for illegal profit or something, okay? What cannot be done is that large hydroelectric power is being generated at six cents of euro, i.e. at 6 euros the megawatt, and it is being sold at 216; that has nothing to do with the cost of the energy transition. And I think that you avoid talking about this all the time, because in the end here is the big fight for the profits of big companies. Eta esaten dut, klaro, have had esan dut, zuek erabaki duzuela ezer ez duzuela egingo, éta gero haserretzen zarete governnu neoliberala deitzen zaituztegunean, edo behintzat Azpiazuk behin hori esan zedan. Baina is that Azpiazuk aste honetan bertan weretzun bat eman gave Gordillo jaunari on what can be done and the repercussions on the Basque economy of the strong increase in electricity price. And the answer was literal: "The government, in principle, does not think about any action in this area." That simple. He also gave a preliminary explanation: "The Government anticipates that the impact of the rise in electricity on inflation and, consequently, on the economy will be relatively small, and neither is this likely to be a high impact. According to such a panel, inflation may be slightly higher than the European Central Bank target of 2 %. And that's why we don't do anything." I mean, Azpiazu's crystal ball says we do nothing, let's let the market act again, because this is not going to have consequences. On the same day, because it did not last two hours the validity of this reply that the CPI was going to walk near the forecasts of the European Central Bank, the data of the CPI in September came out, and it turns out that in a month 0.7 % increase, the annual one by 4 %. With this, once again, the crystal ball bursts with which this government makes forecasts and with which it decides that it will not try to intervene in energy prices. I insist, although I recognize that it is not easy, I acknowledge that it is not easy. But, of course, we will come by motion after this, and some things we believe can arise both in the short term and in the medium term. And around the gas, I want to find out, I don't have time for this, but I don't like the vincularation you're doing. Because in the end, you're handling an argumentary, you're using it everywhere, and you're leaving it, like, a cactus, saying that we don't get the gas, then we have to pay more dearly. "No quereis gas, secente, a payr más." And that's not true, please. You said a severe and honest discussion, and let's put aside the depreciation... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... we must pay. "No quereis gas, secente, a payr más." And that's not true, please. You said a severe and honest discussion, and let's put aside the depreciation. If we were going to draw the gas, it would be the same bill as the Gas Department. And I want that to be clear. And I believe, too, that we must here at last speak of pattern. And we clearly see that we have to make the most fantastic transition quickly, solid, but in the excess of the great electrons, it seems to us that we must say it. Instead of offering a basic service at a fair price, they're getting as much money as possible. That's why we're also thinking that we have to be mobilized, and that's why we're proposing to plan on the 8th of October in front of the big companies.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u75	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Time's up. Tapia andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u76	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Otero, I seem to have said some things or other quickly or you didn't hear me. When I mention that the structure of the bill is the most important problem, but I have not said that, as we have always said, the system marginal system, and as there is at the present moment a prayer from Europe and how it is applied to the State. It was decided to do it on day's basis, which is nowhere to be found around us. We have to take that for a walk. That was a good time, but now it's not appropriate. So we must make this change, and we must do it among all. And this is regulation, which is not our jurisdiction, it is not of this legislature, but if we decide on this legislature, we may perhaps make this change between all of Madrid. So that's structured. It's not the right thing to do today, but I'm saying that we have to discuss a serious discussion, put our own things on the table, but I think this is very serious, what's happening now, but it may be even more serious in the future. We are speaking of course that as a result of all this and of the decree that has been established in the State, there are some electric companies, not just one by the way, which try to do so is that those prices that were approved at certain times change and impact directly on industrial companies. And that, of course, can't happen right now. Why? Because we're putting an entire industrial sector at risk. And that's not possible. And we've said it and we'll keep saying it. We have to work on that in an integral way. It's probably a very challenging bet, the most challenging one we have in our hands, and that's why I say we're going to work it hard, because we have to do it and we have to do it fast. Because that energy transition does depend, I'm sorry, on the gas debate, but when we talk about distributed systems – and we discussed it on more than one occasion with Elkarrekin Podemos – renewable energy systems, we might also be able to work on distributed gas systems if we had it. Since we do not have it, that debate has already passed. But we must count all aspects, positive and negative, and what our reality is. And with the reality that we have, because we have no means of being minimally autonomous, I am not going to say sovereigns, minimally autonomous. With small wind generation systems, geothermal generation, biomass – whatever you want – we're not going to get enough energy, but we're going to work it in an intense way to do it. That's in our hands and we have to do it. And that's where I was telling him that the Basque Energy Agency has done a job and I think we can go deeper into that job. We need a renewable strategy, yes, an energy efficiency strategy and a strategy that allows us to have a common position on what such long-term regulation should be like. It is something that, being possible and at the same time being environmentally guaranteed, I understand what we can do. So, it's a challenge, we have a big challenge. And when they mention Green Deal in Europe, it's green, but it's a deal. Let us work on this agreement in the legislature, I believe that we are all prepared together, and with this arrangement I am sure that we can also carry another better solution to our country, which will be for a long period of time, it will not be to-day. And the challenge we have at this moment, I think we must face in a short time, but we must discuss it also for a long time. So if we are ready, let us do it, but considering where we come from. And let us be very good to ourselves, self to itself. You accuse me of other things, perhaps I am responsible for you. But let us discuss this, knowing what our problems are, where our weaknesses are, where our strength is, because we have everything, but we have also weaknesses for the decisions we have made. And these decisions may be carried on in a different manner, by putting other measures on them. We therefore need that Green Deal, that pact that allows us to move forward, but that allows us to do so in a structured way, with a long-term vision and, at the same time, as quickly as possible, that does not create uncertainty either in our citizens or in our businesses, and that also allows these large companies, and the smaller ones that generate energy, to have sufficient security at all levels: of large installations, of small installations and of consumption, of self-consumption, that allow us to make those long-term decisions. We cannot afford to be changing regulation every five years. That's the worst thing about a system of these characteristics. Beraz, you're a disappointed artean guztion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "The question is, to apply Carmelo Barrio Barroja, the popular Group of the Ciudadans to the head of economics, patience, and environmental department, to the progress of agriculture in Spain (NPB) in the writing of the strategic plan. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u78	Yes, thank you very much, President. Good morning, counselor, counselors. Well, Mrs Tapia, you were in mid-September on the anniversary of the 30th anniversary of the ENBA union and spoke, you also talked about the CAP situation, didn't you? Yesterday was an important day too. The Advisory Council on Agriculture, with the agricultural professional organisations. ENBA is represented through... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... Yesterday was an important day too. The Advisory Council on Agriculture with the professional agricultural organizations, ENBA is represented through BEASAJA¿?, had a meeting. It seems that on the subject of the Strategic Plan for the Common Agricultural Policy, the Minister pointed out at yesterday's meeting that the conference of 14 July, which you had, meant a point of no return and that since then seven thematic meetings have been held, in addition to bilateral meetings with the autonomous communities, to deal essentially with the aspects of the new environmental architecture, eco-schemes, there is the figure of the active farmer and etc., etc., of aggressiveness, retributive payment. Well, they're very important issues. Farmers and livestock farmers – 7,200 people surely in the Basque Autonomous Community – are still waiting for CAP aid. Very concerned about the definition of negotiation. Time's up. We are approaching the end of the year and the work is very important. Europe is waiting for our strategic plan and that is why I believe that, in the end, it is important that... The agricultural organizations yesterday listened to the minister, there are also many questions from them regarding how this plan is in place, ensuring different issues that are in the air and, then, in that sense, and today, after having had those technical meetings that the minister has said have been held throughout September, how his department appreciates the current situation of drawing up the CAP Strategic Plan, after those meetings, after July, and seeing how little remains for Spain to present the plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u79	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u80	Mr Barrio, indeed, you have quoted all the meetings that have taken place, and some bilateral that has been important, and given the urgency of the time we have in the question, I will focus on five specific aspects which, I believe, are relevant to our farmers and livestock farmers. First of all, we have defended from Euskadi, as a result of our uniqueness, our fiscal specificity, the power to have a region of our own, because this would enable us to converge our rights that could be realized in a different way. This is permitted by the Regulations, but the Ministry has not complied with this request for its own region. And, in this sense, although we do not share it, the response we have obtained that has allowed, in terms of rights, that the convergence of these rights, in general, is more smooth and, therefore, has also limited the eligible hectares and, in our case, suppose that we have a somewhat smaller, somewhat different regions. It has converged to 20 different regions and we welcome, for example, that in Álava we have a specific region for irrigated cropland. We have therefore not achieved the maximum we wanted, but that is the point. Secondly, we were betting on a beneficiary of CAP aid, an active farmer who lived from this activity. Initially the Ministry was in favour, however, well, it has been changing and, in fact, there have been no serious or major changes in this Community agricultural policy here and, therefore, it also has part of an aid policy, in our view. On the subject of coupled payments, we have been arguing that they should be maintained in order to have the highest level of aid allowed by the committee and that not many subsectors should be introduced. In this respect, a substantial amount of coupled aid has been obtained for Euskadi for the next period, with a growth of 13 %. As for the bet on the march of eco-schemes, I have to point out that in July it was precisely a matter of debate, since it had not been worked at all, and that, however, as a result of the meetings that took place in September – and in particular the bilateral meeting that was held with all the communities in the cantabrian cornice that we were presenting a common approach – virtually all the requests have been met pending their being reflected in a written document. At the last meeting they have been accepted and we are moderately satisfied. And, fifthly, also important, we called for an extension of the EAFRD funding that, in this case, has not been met so far, despite the fact that we have needs and the ability to implement more resources, but we continue to negotiate with the Government in this regard. We now look forward to working on all that is the second pillar, which is well ahead of us, and we expect that in the second, third week of October the meeting can be held at which all this will definitely be closed so that it can be sent to Europe before 31 December, as you pointed out.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u82	Yeah. Thank you very much, President. Thank you, counselor. Yes, you highlighted at the meeting that you had with ENBA, on the 30th Anniversary, you highlighted the indefinacy that exists in the current proposal of the Ministry of Agriculture, and therefore also, knowing and knowing if that indefinacy is still there, it seems to be in some subjects yes. And yes, I would like a little more concrete action on the subject of the regions, that is, what Euskadi would look like. He has told us about Álava in relation to that region, but what would the whole of Euskadi look like in the current proposal. Eco-schemes are an essential element, green agriculture, but there is a concern in the sector with regard to these eco-schemes, which are accessible, which are acceptable – which seems to be the great concern at the moment – with simple, understandable, achievable practices. And that is the issue that professional organizations are demanding, and I suppose that the autonomous communities or governments, like their own, will also do so, in the same way as the strategies of the Green Pact, from the Farm to the Bureau, from Biodiversity, the C55 Plan for emission reduction, can imply a reduction in productive capacity of Spain and we must see how that is managed with farmers and farms. And it is clear, well, and you have already referred to the active farmer and the different agricultural realities of the Spanish Autonomous Communities are there. Don't you? Yes, I would like to know when the next sectoral conference will be. It is important, I say again, there is little time left, and when the minister has told them that they are going to meet the Autonomous Communities at the Sectoral Conference itself. There are also doubts about the possibility of losing resources in rural development with this current strategic plan, the first pillar. I don't know what that topic will look like or what news you'll have, but that's out there. And then, can you ensure that at this rate farmers and livestock farmers are going to charge the same in 2022, and then, what they're charging now with the new plan? There's... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... make sure that at this rate farmers and farmers will charge the same in 2022, and then, what are they charging now with the new plan? There are many doubts in the sector, and I do not know what opinion you will have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u83	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u84	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, I'll start almost by the date. We expect the second, the third week of October, but we do not have a specific date. Some aspects of the second pillar are being closed. It's going pretty fast, but we think we're gonna make a deal. The productive regions, with the new distribution, have increased from 10 to eight in Euskadi. But, I insist, I don't think it looks bad either. We'd rather have one of our own. But, in this case, we are also not dissatisfied, above all, with the part that corresponds to Alava. And I do want to highlight the work that has been done from the cantabrian cornice, from the four communities on the establishment of eco-schemes. As you said, agricultural systems are different. And I think we have succeeded in introducing relevant aspects. There are many others that have greater implementation, but we believe that we can reach an agreement in October.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, Jon Hernandez Hidalz, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos-Nozzer, made for Economic development, patience, and environmental department, about buying the lands of the Arcor Mithalal. " Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u86	Good morning, chief physician. You will remember perfectly, I am convinced, the closure of the factory, of the powerful multinational Arcelor Mittal in Zumarraga five years ago, staying on the street hundreds of workers. I know that you remember, I also, who had the opportunity to accompany the workers in that fight, in fact, we remember very well. From that time to this part, in the land the multinational has been able to afford not to dismantle the industry there, not to regenerate the land, not to rehabilitate the land, maintaining the facilities as scrap storage. You have now recently announced that you have reached an agreement with this multinational, whereby you will transfer 7 million euros through the Sprilur, from public money, in exchange for these lands. In addition, the operation includes that we will also take care of the regeneration of these lands, also financed by public resources. Of course, it seems to us that the operation for the multinational, of course, is a very advantageous operation. He would use the word almost "gift", knowing the multinational's background, especially in the region, in Urola Garaia and how it negatively affected this region. We think it's a good operation for the multinational. What we don't know is for us. We think that a multinational that left so many people on the street so recently in this region and that will now receive 7 million euros of public money and, moreover, will be free to regenerate those lands, we think that, at least, the citizenship that we are going to pay to sell this operation and, in particular, the citizenship of Urola Garaia, who received the hard impact of that closure, have to know exactly what these lands are going to be used for, what are the objectives that the government has set itself in purchasing these lands.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u87	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u88	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Hernandez, it's true, we remember that time very well, both you and we. But it must be said that in the course of the past few years they have been used and supposed to have no use for anything, and that in the middle of the town there is no use for a place, and that there are some old facilities. Therefore, since in these five years these facilities have not been used for virtually nothing, there must be some small activity. Among Sprilur's objectives and axes of action is, of course, the generation of an offer of spaces, services, actions that allow to regenerate previously used areas and, at the same time, allow us to generate those spaces that can give rise to new industrial activities and new employment. From that point of view, an assessment was made of that soil, which is a lot, there are many hectares. Soil valuation was done. That assessment was limited to the action to be taken to bring out part of a small stream circulating in that area, and the amount to be taken for the decontamination measures to be carried out was also reduced. And from there, we started talking to the owner, to Arcelor Mittal, in the sense that, instead of buying small plots, we could buy the whole plot for the corresponding price, as I have told you. I think it's an important operation. And I think it is an operation that will allow the area of Zumárraga Urretxu, but above all, Zumarraga, they can have different activities, they can have other development projects at the moment, one of which we will also know in more detail from the hand of the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation, for example, other activities that have approached in terms of the valorization of waste to have materials of second use at the moment or other type of industrial projects that require a relevant soil, of which we have quite a shortage in Euskadi. That has been the objective for which we have considered the acquisition of these soils, which, by the way, is signed today in a private contract. And, from here on, we can already start to develop all the actions so that there will be new and new industrial activity in Zumarraga as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u90	Thank you. Sailburu andrea, the truth is that the answer... Yes, he did. You have not raised any specific objectives with regard to employment, which is the question that we had put to you. There are no specific employment targets. We already know that it is an important operation, of course it is an important operation. We are concerned that the importance of the operation, so far, is that it is very advantageous for this multinational that left so many people on the street. For them, of course, it's very advantageous, because it's the perfect colophon... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... the importance of the operation so far is that it is very advantageous for this multinational that left so many people on the street. For them, of course, it is very advantageous, because it is the perfect colophon at the closure of a factory for them. After closing these lands, they have not had to be decontaminated, and now they are bought by the Government and are, let us say, free of that obligation to decontaminated and regenerate. It seems good to us that public resources are used to buy land to generate activity and to generate economy, also depends on how it is done. But in this case it is not a normal operation because of the background it has and by whom it is the private actor to whom the land is bought in this case. That's why it seems to us that it was especially enforceable in the face of Urola Garaia's citizenship that received that impact, knowing exactly what the future is beyond... I think it's going to generate industry. Much has been heard lately about the future of these lands, and the two parties that share the Government have also acted on their own. And you, moreover, in this purchase, as far as we know, had not even informed the mayor of Zumárraga, his partner of the Socialist Party here in the Basque Government. Therefore, we believe that you should give further explanations as to the future of these lands.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u91	Thank you, time is up. Mrs. Tapia is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u92	Eskerrik asko president andrea. The process of valuation and purchase I have explained to you, how Sprilur always works. And in this case, it was the company itself that said, "I'm in charge of talking to the municipalities in the area." I'm not going to detail any more since it was. In that sense, we believe that the operation is important in terms of the regeneration of soils, it will be good for the inhabitants of the area and I think they win with this operation. If we look at other similar sites because of the extent of the land and if we do a general average, they can be located around 12, 13 companies and with an average of all industrial polygons and everything that Sprilur manages, we could have something more than 500..., 500, 550 jobs in that area. Yes, the industries that are located are more employment intensive, because there will be more jobs, and everything will depend on the work that needs to be done from the urban management point of view that has to be done there, on the improvements in arrival infrastructures and infrastructures that allow all the trucks that will be circulating there not to be introduced into the urban center of Urretxu and Zumárraga, so there is a lot of work to be done, but of course, with the means that we are working on, those would be the numbers that we are dealing with at this time in this area. And I insist, we have recovered an area that at this time, of course, is not the best in terms of emissions or in terms of soil pollution and industrial ruin.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. It's over. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Interpodate, written by Joseph Manuel Gilegas, the popular Group of the Ciudadans to the head of the Board of Education, in defending the freedom of the education model." Mr. Gil is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u94	Thank you, Madam President, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Counsellor, as we all know, your department is preparing a new Education Act which, according to Lehendakari's announcement and has reiterated again today, will be presented in Parliament next year. A law in which the whole educational community has put many expectations and some hope, because it is obvious, we think, the need to reform Basque education. These days this issue has been topical, because different voices of his party have shown their predisposition to preferably agree this law with Bildu. And this has generated great concern in much of the educational community, aware of the model that defends this political formation, which engages in the widespread imposition of the Basque and the disappearance of the concerted network. With regard to the Basque language, you know that we have held here on several occasions the position that support for the Basque language must be compatible with the freedom of parents to choose it or not as a language for education. During the last decades the Basque has been imposed by you in our educational system by administrative means, consisting of not offering model A in 98% of the public schools of Euskadi, leaving the family without real freedom of choice, and then having to hear that it is the families that choose most of the model D. I will remind you of some of the information we have already presented here on other occasions. In Gipuzkoa, for example, there is no public child education centre offering model A; in Bizkaia there are six and in Álava there are two. If a family living in Eibar, for example, wants their children to study in model A the nearest center is more than 42 kilometers away, by the A8 paying tolls, and more than an hour and a half, round trip, 33 kilometers away if you live in Gernika or 98 kilometers away if you live in Toulouse. Bilbao has only three public centers offering model A as a child, Vitoria has two and Barakaldo one. No other public centre in the Autonomous Community offer model A. It is not, therefore, that there is no demand on the part of the parents, as they repeatedly repeat here, that the widespread lack of supply causes many of them to have given up in practice in defending their rights. Even though you yourself have recognized in another plenary session the right of parents to choose the language in which they study their children and the obligation of your department to make this choice possible, in practice you have turned the possibility of enrolling your children in Spanish into a chimera for the vast majority of families. This manipulation is, in my view, a flagrant violation of the legality, the legality that you yourself recognized, and an impressive exercise of cynicism that is causing serious inconvenience to many Basque families and is leading to a worse quality of teaching. According to ISEI, for example, which is recent data, 13% of ESO second-level students in model D do not have competence in both Basque and Spanish, and 40% exceed the initial level in Spanish, but not in Basque, which is the language in which they are obliged to study all subjects. We should therefore warn parents that on the basis of this data, if their child studies in model D he has only a 50% chance at 13 years of speaking Basque, that is, he has a 50% chance of not speaking it, and a 10% chance of not even having the minimum knowledge of Basque, and that, I repeat, I do not say, is what you say. Therefore, if 53% of the 2nd ESO students in model D do not have the basic skills in Basque... [[(End of tape 20) e. xxi. beginning of tape.]] ... And that, I repeat, I do not say; you say it. Therefore, if 53% of the 2nd ESO students in model D do not have the basic skills in Basque, how can they acquire the rest of the necessary skills in mathematics, science and the rest of the subjects taught in that language? That is, you have by practice imposed Basque in education, regardless of its effect on the academic level of students. And in doing so, they have done the Basque a little favor, while sacrificing the acquisition of knowledge by the students. And now we hear that you are open to considering a plan that not only does not correct this situation, but aggravates it, and that if until now the imposition of the euskera was a cover by administrative means, it will now be bold and total; immersion you call it. And I repeat, we are not against the Basque, but against the imposition of the Basque. Therefore, it seems to us very good that anyone who wants to study in Basque can do so. And that, moreover, appropriate measures be taken to ensure that the learning of the Basque language is effective, which is not now, but always respecting the freedom of the one who wants to study in Spanish can do so with guarantees, not as hitherto. Don't be afraid of freedom. It has already been shown that the imposition does not work, and that if they persist in it, they will be wrong again. Regarding the concerted network, we see it as a positive singularity of Euskadi, and a wealth that must be maintained. Firstly, because the concerted centres are covering a very important demand that the public network does not cover. And secondly, because its average level of educational quality is very high, and we should be proud of it. Concerted centres have proved in many places in Euskadi to be the last hope for those parents who want to school their children in model A. Without going further, in Gipuzkoa, the only five centers offering model A in childhood education are arranged; in Bizkaia, there are five concerted centers that also do so, and in Álava, two more. I mean, the concerted centers are doing what you don't do, and I understand that there's someone who's bothering so much, because they're transmitting a very clear message. They are telling parents that if they want to school their children in Spanish, they can do so; that's why you and Bildu don't like them. But, perhaps, this rapprochement with Bildu that the media is talking about is not so; we are all very wrong. Today I would like to give you the opportunity, Mr. Counsellor, to clarify your intentions regarding these two critical points, which you know have unhappiness to the population, and in that way we will all know what to stick to, listening first hand to your own voice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u95	Thank you, Mr. Gil. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u96	Mr. President of the Parliament, Chief, Congressman, good day. Gil jauna, as our lehendakari moved into the recent general policy debate on 16 September, education is a key tool for our future. And, aware of this responsibility, as you already know and as stated in the legislative calendar, and which you have also referred to, our government is committed to developing a new education law that responds to the challenges of the future of our education system. In the framework of this responsibility, our aim is to reach a broad agreement on the definition of what the Basque school has to be for the next 30 years, and to which I also, at the time, had the opportunity to speak. Because I understand that we owe it to society, we owe it to the educational community, and we owe it also to the social actors involved. Basque society is aware that, especially with education, we are playing the present, and above all we are playing the future of the country. Beyond issues more linked to legitimate partisan interests, policy makers must respond with a substantive educational agreement, a pact that captures the best of what society demands, what professionals demand, and what the educational sectors demand. We must be able to define a new framework that allows us to take into account the contributions of people who are experts in education, to really place the student as an active subject of their learning, and to families and teachers as institutions capable of guiding, and to accompany the student to learn in community. And this is a key issue. A new framework that allows us to set up a school organization consistent with the objectives, and to work to implement a 21st century governance model for the entire Basque education system. In this regard, I would like to highlight the positive attitude shown by the majority of representatives of the various political groups in this House during the general policy debate to the announcement of progress in the process of the new education law by the Lehendakari. Education requires evaluation, improvement, and the 21st. the adaptation of conquest, if we are really a refuge in Europe. And we won't start from scratch. A 60-year-old view of education and organizations, we may say that Esscan education has filled the modified task, especially in the eucalypine and the most beautiful societies. From this Illus, I mean the importance of the silent work we are doing at the Board of Education, and I find it positive to introduce documents from different political parties, and to express the will to work together with the department and operators of education. That's very good. In fact, they put these things on the table: the autonomy of the schools, the power of the students, or the centralization of education, or the capacity of languages. We want to make a shared thought. We want to work together, because education belongs to everyone... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... we want to make a shared reflection, we want to work together, because it's the business of all education. We're organising an encounter on October 22nd and 23. In this encounter we will invite technicians, professionals, professors, and professors to reflect on some things that are on the education agenda. as the process of euphoria, of inculation, of distinction throughout, or even of immigration. This process of education has been opened, and for a country there is nothing more important than a process of education, because the future of our society is at stake. That is why we do not understand the repetition of their approaches, questions and inquiries, and we only understand whether their claim is to confuse citizens; and I assure you, they are not going to succeed. You are keen to discuss what has already been discussed, to ask for explanations about what has already been explained, and in this case, the freedom of choice of families and educational models. You do not seem to recall or want to recall the result of your group's non-law proposal on the defence of freedom of choice as a language model in education. An agreement reached on 29 April, via a compromise amendment, by the Basque Nationalist groups, EH Bildu, Basque Socialists, Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita; that is, an agreement of all groups except yours. In case you have forgotten, I remind you of what this House has agreed, and I quote: "to move towards a multilingual education system with the Basque language as the central axis, which incorporates improvements in foreign language from Primary Education and strengthening activities for the improvement of their knowledge in students". Mr Gil, there is no doubt about the freedom of choice of families. There is no doubt, and this is reflected in the current framework of our Basque Public School Act in its articles 5, 21, 52, and also in article 84 of LOMLOE itself. Since its adoption 28 years ago, this Government has worked, works and will work to guarantee this right in accordance with the legal framework in force. And there's no doubt about that. Within the framework of the new Education Act, the Basque educational system must continue to bet on helping students in their development as people with a multicultural and multilingual profile, so that they can integrate into a global world, engage in the active use of Basque, learn Basque culture and, at the same time, cultivate knowledge of other languages and cultures. There's no doubt about it. No group in this House has any doubt, except, it seems, its own. Euscalal education is an eloquent system, its axis is eucalyptic, but it is structured in both official languages and in a foreign language. It is a key to cohesion of society, and it is also for the citizens to be able to communicate in two official languages. Tampoco hay debatae en al que me custiona, que en en turno al futuro de la red contcerta, y así lo he trasadado recentete. The existence of two networks is the peculiar system of Eucharistic education; the one would not be understood without the other, and they both provide public services of quality. We must distinguish the strengths of this union, the example of the compact network is of great historical tradition, rooted in the territory, and has the testimony of the euscal society. It has pedagogical pedagogical patterns and forces, and it works in strategic areas. We've bet each school to adapt the society and language of its students to the needs of the context, and we'll do it. The proposal for discussion is concrete in that each educational centre designs its language model according to the needs of its students, adapting to the socio-linguistic diversity that exists in Euskadi, and would allow families to opt for one or another model. We must, in any case, lay down new rules of play, so that new commitments that society demands of us are incorporated; not only in the socio-linguistic sphere, but also in inclusion. Euscalal education system has to support the accumulation of vulnerable students in favor of formulas. In order to do so, one must respect the freedom which families have chosen. On the other hand, students with special wants must consider the policies of the school planning to ensure a greater equilibrium. So, Mr. Gil, it would be synthesis first. Parents have a right to choose their language pattern. The law demands this, and it is always given to them in this way. And the second, the colleges, the compacts, or not the compacts. Our system has two networks, and we will reinforce these two prizes, and we can't do without or without a fully understood euscal education system, and they are both very important and very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u97	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mr. Gil vegas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u98	Thank you very much, Mr. Counsellor, for your reply. You tell me that there is no doubt about the ability of families to choose, I don't know, you won't have it of the doubts, we have them and thousands of families also have them. There are, another thing is that you don't value them or don't want to see them, but that there are thousands of families who have difficulty choosing to school their children in a model, in the model in Spanish, it's obvious, another thing is that you don't want to see them. And, indeed, as you say, the law obliges it to be so. But it is not being fulfilled in practical reality. And there's the data, there's the numbers of the different centers. You say that the only objective for me to pose these things here is to generate confusion in the citizenry. No, Mr. Bildarratz, it's the other way around. We have not been the ones who have generated news in this regard, it has come out of you. Our aim is precisely the opposite, to clarify the situation because of the concern that these kinds of statements have generated in the citizenry, and that must be clarified. Yes, you tell me that you do not, because neither do we, of course, but from somewhere have come, obviously, because there is the press and you have nothing more to read it. And, well, I'm very reassured that you haven't spoken now... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... nor, of course, but it has come out of somewhere, obviously, because there is the press and you have nothing more to read it. And well, I am very reassured that you have not spoken now, as has been done on other occasions, in preferential agreement, but in broad agreement. I'm glad you're willing to do it that way. I also want to point out that it is true that we have spoken to me on occasions, but on this subject of the law we have never spoken, but well, nothing happens, we still have time. I hope we have the opportunity to do so, because, as you know, our model incorporates some issues that I already know will not be very comfortable, but they are, they represent a part of Basque society as well. And I am glad to hear you say with this clarity that the two networks will be strengthened. Of course, as always, here the trick is in the small print. Let us hope that this will be the case later. In any case, I would like to take this opportunity to offer you our cooperation, as it cannot be otherwise. We are not here to put sticks on wheels and we are not here to block education, which I repeat, we believe is necessary. We would, in fact, like things to be as you say, that your good words would actually be fulfilled, and indeed, that we could have a law with broad agreement, and that it would indeed respond to the plurality of Basque society. We'd love for it to be like this. And in that regard, I reiterate my readiness, my extended hand, my collaboration to reach those agreements with you. No more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u99	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u100	Gil jauna, as I indicated in my previous speech, freedom of choice is a right that assists families. It is a right that families exercise consciously and responsibly, and it will remain so. Another issue is that it does not correspond to the ideas that each of us can have. But it is the families, first of all, to whom they are offered and they are chosen. The right to education and freedom of education is exercised through the choice of centre within the framework of educational provision. Parents freely choose the standard proper for their children. They make use of the right of choosing, and in practice they choose the D and B patterns, and they also choose them freely. Most of them choose, and most of them choose, and they willingly choose, because they offer more quality than others. When these families end their studies, they rate them in a positive manner. Family opportunities are clear: More than 95% of the students learn in these two models than 95%. And for years, that percentage is getting bigger and bigger, chosen by families with all their freedom. Knowing this unappealable reality, I again propose a change of attitude. And what I propose is, I propose to you the convenience of adapting your speech to the reality of a free will and decision of the Basque families. I propose that you abandon the vain attempt to make it clear that this freedom of choice does not exist. I propose to stop questioning a right that has been exercised for 28 years with complete freedom. I propose that you abandon the vain attempt to confuse and frighten citizens about the future of the concerted network. I propose that you abandon the vain attempt to generate a political conflict where there is no such conflict. And I propose, in short, a change of attitude towards education and families from the assumption of authentic reality. Within our present area, all pedagogical and professional evidence, all recommend these two education models. The families choose them freely, and the institutions do so. Moreover, the majority of this legislature, almost all the majority, 90%, protects 90%, 90%, 90% of this Chamber. We are to listen, discuss and take into consideration the contributions of those who are experts in education. My intention is to consider whether you have the free choice of more than 95% of the Basque families, and to protect them from the models of education which provide better results. I'll tell you more, he shouldn't have a political debate here around the pattern, because he's a perfectly technical debate about efficiency. Which example is... a pattern that most guarantees the end of the law. Undoubtedly, thanks to these examples, we can adapt the offer of education to the demands of our education organization. Basque society is well aware that especially with education we play the present and future of the country. And that is why the political leaders and those present here must bet on a substantive educational agreement, a pact that collects the demands of society, the professionals and the educational sectors. And right now it's time for them, for technicians, for professionals, for educational agents, for school communities. And ours, ours is the time to listen, because all this educational agreement will have to come here, and we will propose that you come here, to this House, to reflect, to listen, to talk to us. But let us listen without prejudice, without preconceived ideas, (...) in the contributions that we will make to a future school of the twenty-first century. Therefore, it is now a matter of listening to the educational community. He has no doubt that, also in this task, he will find in our government an open attitude to dialogue and encounter, as I told him, as I told him at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u101	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask you, Martinezon, together with Podemos, a member of the Animate team, a member of the Board of Education, an editor of the Board of Education." [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] "The question is, you're asking Martíni, together with Podemos, a member of the Antuc team, a member of the Board of Education, an editor of the Board of Education." Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u102	Yeah. Good noon, chief. Now you said, and we agree that we have to listen to the educational unit. That's what I want to ask you today. Ask you today. For the last few months we've been worried about the telephonic environment of the Education Department. Calls that are not caught to listen precisely to the education professionals, to the directors of the centers, late answers, answers that are very difficult to manage. Por Dot, my question is: Why have these changes been given in the phonery of the Education Department?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u103	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u104	Mr. President, chief of departments, members of Parliament, good morning, Mr Martínnez. I begin by stressing that there have been no changes in the telephone care model in the processes of interaction with citizens. This model of care is part of the general model of the service of care to the citizenry and uses the channels of care established for the whole Government, such as the Internet, the telephone, the presence and the channel of interaction via Telegram. However – and you should know this because we did it with absolute transparency – on 16 September, the management teams were asked to use the electronic channel preferably for personnel area communications. This request has a context that justifies it: the complexity of the start of the course, and in particular in terms of management. This request responds to an objective that also justifies it, is to properly collect all requests, prioritise them and be able to manage them in the most appropriate and effective way possible. After the need for substitutions which Covid's unusual resources and schools have sent, the telephone interaction has been restored to schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u105	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u106	Well, the worries I was telling you on the first round are a lot of worries, and so have we. We're also supposed to be in the Board of Education, on the phone and on the donor, as you said now. And probably if we don't know the education system, this could seem a small matter, but thousands of workers, the director has a direct influence on his everyday life. These concerns are planned for us from the Education Department, not now and not from the Covida? ), the telephone began at the section of the urba, well, I don't know whether to put it or disconnect it, and now it's also happening in the departments of Biscaia and Gipu. They tell us that by donation, by e-mail, they are much corrupted by these answers; and sometimes, when those answers are not improper or complences, or when they come to doubt, a new one begins again by telephone and hand. and, moreover, they have proposed to us, that there are differences in the time of giving judgment in certain matters. These things, on the telephone and on the donations of the subject, are said to have a direct influence on the daily routine, the requirements, the requirements of the work, the duties, the directors, for instance, when the squares are in order. You know how many different unions have requested a meeting to hit this subject. And we all know, and the problem behind this subject is, behind this subject, the workload of workers. There's a lot of people in the Board of Education, but there's more to it than you know, to distribute that job to the Board of Education between everyone and more people. So, we repeat this, that we use your words: We need to listen to the community of education, to the workers of education, and to the care of telephonic and donative attention, and, after all, you need to improve their attention to workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u107	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u108	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Always, there's always need to be better and we'll always try to make it better. But, as I have indicated, the complexity of the start of the course, and now I will say why, has led to a dynamic of work that allows us to properly collect, analyse and prioritize all the incidences and needs of all the centres. It is a matter of justice, first of all, to recognize the management work of the staff area teams of delegations and of the Directorate of Personnel Management during the months of August and in the first half of September, and to whom I would also like to take this moment to thank for the involvement and the great work, which they have had to do on Saturdays and any day. From September onwards, the covid professional reinforcements have been provided, according to the needs of the educational institutions. One thing: a total of 1,248 teachers for day extensions and new jobs, this represents an increase of 17.3%. We have moved from 1,064 professionals in the past year to 1,248 in the current year. On the other hand, on the first days of September, the scene of the new situation of our workmen has taken an unusual position; the unions, the groans of labor, the demands, the unadvised retreats, temporary interruptions, and so on. As of 7 September, the regular replacement coverage procedure is initiated. And another important fact: from the 8th to the 23rd of September 5,014 substitutions, 5,014 substitutions have been managed in 15 days, in two weeks more than 5,000 substitutions managed. And this also has to give us something to think about. All sorts of cases enter these squares, such as risks, exposures, reduction labours, permits, licenses, etc., and so on. Another large number of replacements is associated with the squares of members of the jury who are paying the rating of the public offer... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... "the reductions, the permits, the licenses, and so on." Another large number of replacements is connected to fill the squares of members of the jury who are paying the rating of the public offer. Under these circumstances, it was absolutely necessary to rearrange the internal channels for the interaction of schools for a temporary period. That's how it's done and the services are offered in full assurance. However, I remain with the reflection you make, and I share it. And, of course, it is necessary to improve that they are living a difficult situation. I want to thank the Personal Administration and congratulate you, but it's been a huge lot of work that has been done, because the charge we've received has been very great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u109	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The 15th point in the theme list: "Ask me about Unai Fernandez de Betoño De Lacuesta, the members of the EH Collectors, the planetion, Housing and the head of the transportation department, the referendum of Berlin and the housing departments of fun." Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo Saenz de Lacuesta is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u110	Yes, good afternoon. The Chief of Arriola, on Sunday, had been a referendum that was very interesting in Berlin. And in it more than a million Berlinese were responsible for the removal of 2400,000 units. Moreover, the affirmative had won the refusal with a difference of 20 points. In that sense, we want to know if you think it's proper for you to open the public housing park in social rent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u111	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Fernandez de Betoño, you ask me if I believe that the option of the Berlin consultation involves the expropriation of owners of more than 3,000 homes, investment funds and real estate companies, basically, about 240,000 homes, is suitable to expand the social rental housing park. But you need to make the park you're talking about, which park you're talking about, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. From Berlin or from Euskadi? On the Berlin initiative, I will tell you that this is an extreme proposal, the result of a public consultation which, one, is not binding; two, apart from its legal framework, would cost between 8,000 and 36 billion euros, depending on the sources. If we made a simple account of an average of 100,000 euros per house, we would be talking about 24 billion. And besides, no one knows for sure how the operation would be financed. And, three, it is not supported because no German party except Die Linke, which in the recent elections won 14% of the vote in Berlin. So we'll be watching your tour.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u113	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u114	Thank you, Chief Arriola. We have drawn a very important lesson from the referendum that a social movement may at last put a subject into the agenda, and that it may, in some measure, encourage the work the governors and politicians do, even in the nicest housing area. And therefore we believe that motion, or society, may constitute the domestic policy of a government. That's a lesson. And another lesson, we believe, has been made very clear that the public housing park in the social rent has to be opened. And I answer your question. Of course, we're talking about the Basque Country, but it's seen that in Berlin there is a necessity. So these two major lessons are for us. We understand that you don't have a priority to remove the housing. We understand that we don't have your priority. But it must be observed that you have 60,000 demands on your estate lists, renting houses. And in that sense, we don't know very well what your priorities are, because we see you're very comfortable with paying extra preparations. We think you're keeping that system. And in this sense, though it be indirectly, the free rent market also swells, by means of these supplementary preparations. And we don't think that's how you can guarantee the housing rights. In this sense, as the second force of this Union is EHG, we have shown a legal proposition two weeks ago which proposes the acquisition of the housing in the primary. And I'm asking you to take the text if you don't agree to a hundred per cent, at least to accept it. And we don't think it's just a matter of chance after a week, but you're supposed to have announced you that you're going to invest 26 million rents to buy housing. We think it's good news. We think it's interesting on the way to public rent park. We'd like to have those homes of public protection and get them first. At least the price will be rated. And if it isn't so, at least to be cheap and to be chosen by a principle of equality, because some of the purchases you've been doing lately, not only for the sake of the few, but also for the sake of the few, you're buying a lot of specials from the housing to the gong, the bad bank of the Netb, the promoters who have misreported. And we think you're going to make another kind of policy. We think it's time to start more daring policies, Chief Arriola. To remind you that you've got $60,000 Scouts on your housekeeping lists again. And we really think it's time to make a quantum leap. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u115	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u116	The housing problem, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, is universal, but initiatives to try to alleviate its effects cannot be mimetically moved. The realities of each territory are different and require the development of housing policies, specific and adapted to that reality. Do you know what the practical consequence would be of implementing the Berlin proposal in Euskadi? None, zero. Because the situations in Berlin and Euskadi are radically different. For starters, 85% of Berlin's population lives on rent and the housing stock is concentrated in a few operators, while in Euskadi that percentage is slightly more than 12%, and its owners are mostly private, not large funds, but people who have been made up of housing, in most cases... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... It is slightly more than 12%, and its owners are mostly private, not large funds, but people who have made themselves with a home, in most cases, thanks to their work or the inheritance of their parents. As I say to you, the companies operating in Berlin have huge housing bags. In fact, this initiative, whose aim is to expropriate large funds, bears the name of one of them, owner of more than 100,000 floors only in the German capital. I have told you, on many occasions, that there are no magic formulas to end the problem of housing. In Euskadi we develop a comprehensive housing policy, with measures that act simultaneously on supply and demand, such as the promotion of new building, the acquisition of empty housing, a comprehensive system of economic benefits, the purchase of housing from third parties, which we do, or the acquisition of housing through the right of counting and retraction, which we of course also carry out when we consider it necessary. All this means that, of the 67 % of the rented houses in Euskadi, the tenants and families have some kind of public support, and that we have become a reference for the rest of the territories because of our wide social coverage in this area. But we are also aware that there are still many needs, and that is why we work continuously, adding new formulas that allow us to improve citizens' access to affordable housing. And, indeed, we have 59,792 applicants in Etxebide, who ask us for public housing for rent. But it must also be said that 68,5 % of these applicants, 41,000, are already living in rented houses today, and that most of them, a very high percentage, receive support from the Basque Government for the payment of this rent.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u117	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 16th point in the theme list: "Interpology, by Isabel González Rodríguz, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos-IU team, made of equality, justice, and society to the chief physician of the '20s Podemic Podemos', about the Insecrations of the Pomos.' " Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u118	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning congressmen. Good morning chief, sir. Three years ago, in this House, an initiative was adopted by us to incorporate the best interests of the child into all public policies and actions of the public administration. Our partner, Tinixara Guanche, began quoting Eduardo Galeano on an appointment I want to remember: "Day after day, children are denied the right to be children. The world treats poor children as garbage. The world treats rich children as if they were money. And those in the middle, those who are neither poor nor rich, the world has them well tied to the feet of the television, so that from very early on they accept prisoner life as their destiny. Much magic and much luck have children who get to be children." Maybe they ask why we plan this interference. Well, it is plain that it seems to us to be a matter of anxiety about the increase of the poverty of children, and that no one-let him speak of it, or the responsibility of it. The data from the report to which I will refer are from the last Survey of Poverty and Social Inequalities of 2020, conducted last summer by the statistical body of your Department. According to the survey, child poverty has increased by one and a half points in two years, reaching 11.7 per cent of the population under the age of 14, the highest rate since 2008. We are only faced with the principle of what the socio-economic consequences of this crisis are going to be. And the data for 2020 must be read with caution, but also with courage, because some are very hard, and questioned and interpreted with political will for change. Because, what have we seen since the 2008 crisis until now? Well, no indicator has improved since then, nor has it recovered in this sense. Although you've been trying to make data progression since 2016 or 2018, that's a trap. The reality is this: since 2008 neither poverty nor inequality has improved. Moreover, in the latter, and according to the survey, it has increased to the levels of 25 years ago. Poverty also grows in single-maritime families. You said, in some statements: "We trust that the next legislative changes will improve the attention of the children of those most disadvantaged groups." But plotting poverty data only serves when we want to focus on branches and avoid seeing the forest. One of the objectives set out in the 2030 Agenda, which we have all assumed, is the increase in birth rate. But, in your policies, we see that you do not go into the structural causes that make having sons or daughters in Euskadi a factor of impoverishment. They do not even consider that we are doing anything wrong to make children suffer more seriously the impacts of the crises that we cause. For the moment, increasing support for birth is not the only solution you speak clearly and clearly. Do you really think that this measure can do anything by itself? Not from our point of view. And other measures could be prepared, such as those aimed at families, with aid for reconciliation without loss of purchasing power, or support to increase their purchasing capacity. Even others aimed at the well-being of children and adolescents, with measures such as accompanying the times of children and families, vacations, hours, improvement of leisure and cultural supply. But we do not only worry that the President does not mention them in the general political assembly. For this study, he mentioned 20 first commitments to reinforce the Basques, and there is no specific commitment to children and teenagers. We're worried that we'll hide it and normalize it. Because here, Mrs. Artolazabal, it's not all right. And it doesn't go well for the 83,379 people in a situation of severe poverty, despite being served by social benefits; you don't go to the root. It does not go well for 14% of people under the age of 17 who are in severe poverty. Severe poverty has a child's face and... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... is not good for 14% of people under the age of 17 who are in severe poverty. Severe poverty has a child's face and lives in a family home, especially in single-maritime households, one in five, but also in households with large families, 19 per cent. 18% of poor families, with dependent children, have had problems paying for basic services such as electricity, telephone or water. In addition, 65% of these families have been forced to reduce their energy consumption and the use of heating. And the most serious thing is that there are boys and girls who have recognized that they have gone hungry, that they went hungry in Euskadi in 2021, in 2020. Anyway, whatever the average percentage of people in poverty is, it'll always be too big. Because what is the bearable level of poverty? How long is it desirable for these people to stay in this situation? It is that many families live in this situation their whole lives. And poverty is transmitted from generation to generation. And the elevator is an entelequia in the Basque oasis, as in the rest of the world. And we cannot assume that there is poverty and inequality. But this is the result of a model. It is the result of a country model. A model that apparently does not interest changing for some and for some. And even if you are experts in data selection and call (checking perking?) on this issue they have it more difficult. The data show that the Basque social protection system remains short to put an end to poverty, which creates waste jobs, which continues to target our young people, mainly women, precariousness and poverty. And you must understand, that I imagine that's how you understand it, that behind this data there are people. And that experiencing poverty in childhood chronicles the human rights violations of boys and girls and conditions their future. All agencies specialized in the fight against poverty and social exclusion warn that the return to normality will never be the same for all. Never. But at this moment less. Let us not let girls and boys be or may be among the main victims of the covid and without being infected. Eighty per cent of children living in poverty will be poor adults. And it is necessary that these inequalities be corrected as soon as possible through public policies, ending school segregation. And improving their situation is public will and investment. We are aware of the positive impacts of the funds such as Inor Atzean Utzi Gabe or the Azken Sarea Indartzen program, but from prudence, because they have been temporary policies – you have defended it – and because it has served for urgency. What is to be demonstrated is that it is the path by which to alleviate the effects of this crisis. Because they had the forecast to reach 10,000 people and they've reached just over 7,000. From this concern that we have transferred to you, what are the intentions of your department, Mrs Artolazabal, in the face of the upsurge of child poverty experienced in Euskadi last year?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u120	The chief physician, the chief physician, the members of the legislature, all good days. Mrs González, it is always a pleasure for me to discuss or discuss with you. We share concerns, although sometimes, most of the time, we disagree with our perceptions of reality. And in this case, you make a biased reading of that survey. In my opinion, the facts described in regard to poverty are clear. Basque society's welfare level is more than 90%. This data has been related in years to the work which has been done in the field of struggle against social protection and poverty. You will also confess to me that the latest inquest on the poverty and social inequality is good. In my view, the poverty data presented recently leave no doubt. As you acknowledge, the level of well-being of Basque society is above 90.6%, which is a model country and, in addition, which is praised by the representatives of your party in Madrid, the first vice president and the current one responsible for your coalition. And let me think that this will have something to do with the work that has been carried out in recent years in the area of social protection and the fight against poverty. You will also recognize that the data from the last survey in Euskadi are frankly good. And it won't deny me that if we compare them with other autonomous communities, they're even better. I thank you for recognizing this, but I also share with you that we cannot stay there and that it is very important that we continue to make progress in social cohesion. It is key to prevent and address inequalities, putting people and particularly the most vulnerable at the centre. It is important to focus on our own reality as a Basque society. And in this task of advancing in social cohesion, we had already detected the greatest situation of vulnerability in which families with minors were in charge. The results of the last Poverty and Inequalities Survey confirm that poverty indicators in these families remain stable, without improving or even worsening. This indicator is always higher in families with minors than in families without minors. And the situations of real poverty in 2020 affect 1.8 family units of couples without minors, 4.8 families with minors and 15.6 single-parent families. That is why we believe that we need to invest and continue to invest and invest more in people. The fight against child poverty must necessarily be part of a broader strategy to guarantee the rights and opportunities of children, children and adolescents, seeking equal results, ensuring a differentiated treatment of single-maritime families in terms of income guarantee that provides an appropriate starting point for their children, bread for today and bread for tomorrow, ensuring a basis from which to build opportunities... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... that provides a suitable starting point for your children, bread for today and bread for tomorrow, ensuring a base from which to build opportunities and prevent the reproduction of poverty, reviewing every time you need the gears that make this social lift work that you also mentioned. Our future is linked directly to the arts and the lives of women who come to work in the Euscarate, with the help of young, teenagers, and elderly men, with their talents, abilities, and participation in social development. Our future is directly related to the opportunities of women, those who come to work and live in Euskadi, young people and young adolescents and boys and girls, and the elderly, the development of their talent, skills and social participation. As we have been recognizing, age, origin and gender remain factors of inequality, even more so when these profiles cross, as in single-parent families with dependent children; even more so in families of foreign origin, who are most affected by situations of child poverty. We are aware of the need to articulate protection policies for the most vulnerable groups, for which we must continue to work to prevent them from falling into extreme poverty. And we're on it. I would like to remind you of the social emergency aid which is intended to cover emergency economic situations. They are used as a palliative resource that avoids situations that can lead to hardships and basic needs. And more so in cases of cohabitation units where there are minors. The amounts earmarked for this protection measure have been EUR 27.5 million per year in recent years, without taking into account the significant amounts that we have launched as a result of the pandemic. And in the case of cohabitation units with dependent minors, the figures in the last year that we have protected are 14,000 families with this type of support. On the other hand, an amount of EUR 400,000 is allocated annually to combat poverty as regards aid for the payment of electricity supply. And of the nearly 7,000 aid managed in this concept in the last four years a very large percentage has been allocated to families in extreme vulnerability and with dependent minors. Within the framework of family support policies, the system of standardizing family income has been in place since 2012 and its implementation allows for a more equitable treatment of the different types and situations of families. This system is applied both to support for families with children or dependent daughters and to conciliation aid, with the latter increasing aid in the last year by 30% in the case of single-maritime families, large families, families with disabled members, or in which some of the persons making up it have suffered gender-based violence. In addition, the Fourth Support Plan for Families and Children includes the following measures: Improvement in the treatment of family units with dependent minors under the Basque system of income guarantee. In this case, the draft law on the reform of the GIR presented in the last legislature has already detected this situation, it has already tried to correct this situation. And I also believe that the responsibility of the groups in this House not to process that law which could have prevented us from losing the two years we have lost to care for these families and these minors. We'll have to see why that law couldn't be processed, won't we? Progressive improvement of financial benefits for dependent children. This aid has been extended from two to three years. We have developed measures to access the Haurreskolak of families with lower incomes. And thus, from 2019 onwards, those families with incomes below 18,000 euros are exempt from the rates. And we have also developed a pilot programme for child care in situations of special need, which has worked. A pilot called Lore Maitea, Service for comprehensive care of single-maritime families, through the Alavesa Association of Social Work, AGLE. These days we will start a new pilotage in order to identify support needs in single-parent families and their possible response through a nominative support to Euskadi Family Action. Nor can we forget that with the arrival of the covid from the first moment we think of the vulnerability of this collective and of the underage people of our country. We immediately launched, as you said, the Azken Sarea Indartzen programme, aimed mainly at families with children who were unemployed or suffering unemployment, job insecurity, submerged economy, economic unprotectiveness, housing problems, social isolation, disconnection and lack of personal skills and support network for the care of children in their care. Well, of the 4,000 aid managed in this programme, almost half has been allocated to families which mostly had minors. In the same vein, we also increased aid for ESAs, both in the year 20, with EUR 16 million, and in 2021, with an additional EUR 15 million. I would also like to remind you of the Aukerak Suspertzen programme, which we launched during the confinement, and we have already consolidated for this course. As you know, this is a community-based educational support programme for socially disadvantaged children and adolescents who are studying primary or secondary education in public and concerted schools in Euskadi. Its objective is to enable them to continue the educational process, reduce the digital divide, strengthen the capacities of adolescent children and their families to participate in the teaching and learning process in an increasingly digital environment, acquire or strengthen these habits and study techniques in a digital context as well, and acquire or strengthen parental skills in this area. This programme is expanding and is in the process of consolidation. Therefore, some of the programmes we put in place during the pandemic with the Inor Fund atzean utzi gabe are being consolidated and will be maintained in future budgets. We cater for 1,274 minors with the participation of more than twenty entities in the third social sector. It should be pointed out that 38% of these children cared for belong to single-maritime families. Programk gizzarte beharretara egokitzeko lanean jarraituko dugu, famíek poverizian eta edo edo prekarietăen bizi ez daitezen. As I said, we will continue to work on adapting our programmes to social needs to prevent families in general and families with children in particular from falling into situations of poverty or insecurity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. Gonález, your word is yours. [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u122	I thank you, Mrs Artolazabal, for this interpretation you have given of the data and the (?) a range of measures and aid implemented. But the increase in inequality, even if it is experienced only by 10% of the Basque population, means that there are neighbours and neighbours of ours who have to choose daily between eating or paying rent and children who are deeply affected by the vulnerability and precariousness of the home in which they live. It is necessary that the child should end the normality of poverty, and that we should break the cycle between the generation of poverty because we can't have a child condemned all his life to poverty, only because he was born in a particular family. It is as arbitrary as unjust. Since our formation, from Elkarrekin Podemos and United Left, what we consider is that there are no revolutionary changes in the type of policies and that we are going to be mere managers of poverty without paying attention to the chronification of poverty and to the widening gap of inequality. For us, this is not acceptable to a Government that is committed to the human rights of children as the central axis of its policies, and it is certainly not acceptable for us to lower the goals to which we aspire with the excuse that we cannot reach the whole world. Nor is it permissible not to offer comprehensive solutions, not to coordinate policies and approaches, because not only is the average income of a household where a minor lives, but the quality of life he has. We are talking about intervention in education, health, housing, or the eradication of energy poverty. Children in severe poverty coincide with boys and girls affected by school segregation, by the concentration rates of the education system, with those whose families suffer the most from the digital divide, with those living in families who have to choose between buying clothes or heating. We can't keep putting on patches. Besides, it's not enough. We pass the ball from one administration to another, and in addition, many people stay out of the system for not responding to entry profiles that do not attend to the reality of their personal situation, that do not attend to the chronification of poverty, that do not work in prevention and serve only to alleviate blows. Palliate blows, an expression you used when you presented the survey. It is necessary to eliminate the normality of child poverty and it is necessary to break the cycle of intergenerational transmission of poverty, because we cannot condemn a child to poverty for the rest of his life simply because he was born in a particular family. It's as unfair as it is arbitrary. On several occasions we have brought proposals on how to build limbs in another way, for example, by incorporating the best interests of the child into policies but in a real way, and so we would not be talking about the criticisms that Lanbide and its interpretation criteria have received and receive for depriving minors or the living units in which they live of the economic support on which their families depend. They have, in our view, four scenarios or public policy frameworks ahead that we understand are not sufficiently used to drive substantial reforms. On the one hand, the Euskadi Next Funds, the Next Generation Funds, the reform of the GIR, as he has mentioned, the Education Act, which is currently segregating in part due to concertation, and the Children Act. In Next funds children cannot go unnoticed. Substantial reforms must be put in place to eradicate child poverty, and this is only done by increasing family incomes and the child welfare system, by improving equity in education, by improving health care, by shielding children's basic rights in terms of the material conditions that are necessary for living: decent roof, decent food, decent environment. Mrs Artolazabal, let us adopt a strategy to combat child poverty that comprehensively addresses what we need to change. We know that childhood matters to us all, we care about our programs and our speeches, and also in real life and in everyday life. Now let's take it seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u123	Thank you, Mrs. González. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u124	Mrs González, we are also concerned about the situation of inequality that is taking place. We think it's something we've already been working on, but we have to keep inciting. But I believe that the situation we are in, which is a situation compared to other realities of clear improvement, or a situation much better than that in other autonomous communities, is not because it has suddenly appeared, but because we have been working for many years, more than 30 years in this society, in this country we have been working on the protection of the most vulnerable people. And you cite a number of laws and challenges, but the government is already working on it. In the Education Act we are working, in the Next Generation funds we are also working, the Children's Act from the department we are driving it and the RGI, well, because the Department of Labour and Employment will already present, has already submitted a preliminary draft law. I would also like you to approve on this occasion improvements to that law so that it could enter into force as soon as possible and be able to help those families that, since 2018, the bill was introduced by the groups that support this government, did not have the success of being approved and that we could have gained precious time for these families to be better protected. The survey data show that although the uncertainty of these months has been high, the real poverty rate in Euskadi has fallen from 6.1 to 5.6, and that has been because of all the policies that all Basque institutions have put on the table to help these people who are worst going through it, although we are aware that families that have children in charge have greater difficulties... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... we have put on the table to help these people who are going through worse, although we are aware that, indeed, families who have children in charge have greater difficulties. The GIR, the social emergency aid, the inor funds atzean utzi gabe. You and I believe a more just society, one that is more cohesive, and in addition, one that has more and better opportunities for all people; in particular, for the weakest. But that requires concrete action. And I've already pointed out some, and I'm also going to point out some more where we are now. From the department we are working on a study on child poverty, because it is something that worries us. And, over the next year, we are working on the design of a child guarantee programme that integrates the fight against child poverty into a broader framework for guaranteeing rights and equal opportunities. It is a framework, it is a programme that will be aligned with the European Union's strategy and that will include various cross-cutting areas such as social, economic, health, education, combating violence against children, ensuring and protecting them, supporting and protecting children in general, integrating the perspective of children into all policies. And therefore, we believe that it is a necessary, cross-cutting framework that our department, at this moment, with the dimension it has, can face with guarantee. Very connected with the development of the future Basque Act on the Rights of Children and Adolescents, as well as with the 2030 Agenda and the sustainable development goals that we have for this country. Already on 4 June, the Council of the European Union established a guarantee, established or recommended in the creation of a European children's guarantee which we want to promote from our context through this programme, which, as I say, we will start working from next year. Some data. In Euskadi we are at 13% child poverty when the average of the Spanish state is 29.5% and that of the European Union at 28%. And these are data from the Ministry of Social Policy for which you are responsible. We can state, and we have signed it with great clarity, that this difference is based on the Basque system of income guarantee and social inclusion which, through its main tools, such as the GIR and the Social Emergency Aids, has been able to provide assistance for more than 30 years to people and families who really need that help. As I was saying, if we had approved the bill presented in 2018 we would be in another situation. We now have the opportunity to correct that situation with the new draft law in which we are working. And before I finish, I would like to shake hands with you so that in the coming weeks we will have the opportunity to work on the 2022 budget process and it seems to me that this is a great opportunity for us to share policies, results and support and to be able to really help the children of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. "The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To question, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, a member of the Julian Groups of Ciudadans, a member of equality, justice, and the head physician of the Police of the prisons, concerning the conditions of transferring human means." Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Artolazabal, this morning I understand that you have been in a solemn act representing the transfer of (...) and the transfer of powers in the area of prisons, and I was wondering if you could clarify here, in Parliament, what the conditions will be for the officials to be transferred since we have read in the press that this week has been negotiated, you have met with the unions, and it seems that they have reached an agreement. I am particularly interested in when the Government intends to approve the RPT, the employment relationship. Whether to maintain, for example, the possibility for staff members to request an extension of retirement age. Already a curiosity, a curiosity, a counselor, is it true that they went to negotiate with the unions with translators in Basque? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u127	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u128	...of prison officials will be maintained and will be improved. And the truth, Mr Gordillo, with all my affection I say to you, offends me that I wonder if we have actually gone to negotiate with the unions with translators by saying that we use euskera as a bold weapon, which seems to be what you do, whenever you have a chance, when you do not have another set of arguments to be able to criticize the government's action. Really, I find it regrettable that you ask me that question. I sincerely believe that today is a historic day when, after 40 years, an organic law has finally been complied with related to such a sensitive and important transfer as is that of penitentiary institutions, that what comes is to improve the conditions of people who are deprived of their liberty, and that I believe in that in the end it has an impact on the Basque society being a better society. And so, by answering your question, the conditions of prison officials will be maintained and sometimes will be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u130	Thank you, Madam President. I was seeing the debate with Mrs Gonzalez before, and that is what the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats approve virtually everything you put forward in general, and specifically on prison matters, and it has not been especially, I believe, well, kind in the debate, but I see that it is not just with her, which is also with me. Look, I'm just asking you a series of questions, see if you can answer them, because we're in Parliament. This morning I think that in the act you presided over you did not accept questions from journalists, to see if mine accepts them. Look, I read in the press release that your team has distributed that they have delivered three work manuals to the directors, the prison directors. The first is a manual of internal regime and security, which is based on therapeutic and educational measures. What, so far the prisoners were being mistreated? The second, a prison management manual. Do you deliver a prison management manual to people who have been managing Euskadi prisons for 20 years? [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... the second, a prison management manual. Do you deliver a prison management manual to people who have been managing Euskadi prisons for 20 years? The third is a prison intervention manual, which compiles current intervention programmes, etc., and promotes restorative justice. There was no reinsertion until now? Is there no reintegration into the common system? Look, Mrs. Artolazabal, I don't know, you've been financial director of Osakidetza, imagine you change boss, and the new boss arrives and says "Artolazabal, here you have the General Accounting Plan", as if up to that point you had not applied the accounting rules. Finally, what I sincerely believe, Madam Counsellor, is that here on this issue they have entered as an elephant into a casket on the subject of staff, on the subject of transfers. This morning the lehendakari said it was a quiet transfer. I do not see it here; I have seen a lot of haste for the symbols, a lot of haste to put the symbol of the Basque Government on Monday, to remove the shield of Spain, in short, it seems that it bothered him, I have seen a lot of haste to pass a law that could perfectly have been managed in a different way. And then, besides, it seems that it is we who do not approve here what presents us. And then, by the way, in Aukerak – which you also mentioned – I think this morning in the statements you have made, a structure that so far can be carried with 11 people, now it seems that it will rise to 39 people. Finally, I see what I see, Madam Counsellor, and this will simply serve to announce that on the subject of prisons it seems that you and I here will have a lot of debates and a lot of dialogue – I believe that here the Basque Government still has a lot to do and a lot to clarify because, with this I simply end up, I believe that before, really, giving lessons to people and giving lessons to officials on how to do their job, I think it is appropriate to analyse the system that is actually there, to analyse it, to evaluate it and from there to propose the measures that are believed to be relevant, but once the system is known and not to enter directly as an elephant in a junkyard, which is what you have done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u131	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u132	You asked me about the current conditions of the transfer in the matter of material and personal means and you did an intervention as you really wanted it to be, didn't you? We have not entered as an elephant in cacharreria, we have worked with the officials and those responsible, both of the Ministry of the Interior and the current ones responsible for prisons and prisons, we have done it in a calm, calm way and we will continue to do it in that way. I'm not going in to answer... [[Berber]] Yeah? Now. We defend self-government. I think it has taken us 40 years for a very important part of this self-government to be fulfilled, and I think we are going to show that self-government when we exercise it improves the living conditions of the citizens of this country. With regard to working conditions, and focusing on the question, I should like to say that we have reached an agreement with Acaip-Ugt, who have signed the proposal, which is the trade union centre with the highest representation in the field of Basque prisons, which has supported that agreement at the Sectoral Bureau of the General Administration, and that this is a prudent agreement, which has been enriched by the contributions of the trade unions present at the Sectoral Bureau. Overall, it can be said that the general conditions of the staff are maintained until the end of 2023. This means that we have two years to continue negotiating and profiling the jobs in prisons, that RPT that we have to do and, in this regard, the hours and schedules will remain the same, as will the chapter on permits, especially important for prison staff, as they enjoy some concessions that do not have companions in other state centres. And in terms of remuneration, another important aspect of the negotiations is the agreement that ensures that the staff receives the salary from the minimum levels of the Basque administration, which for some people is going to mean an increase in salary. The rest of the staff, for their part, will be kept collected at the time of the transfer. And in the chapter of antiquity also tell him that there are positive changes, as the payroll of the entire staff will be increased in this chapter, since, it will be equated to the terms of the Basque Justice Administration and this will at first mean an improvement in the salary of all the payrolls. The housing chapter assumes obligations with respect to the enjoyment of their use in prisons, so that they will be dispensed with as the agreements signed prior to the date of transfer expire. Finally, workers will be recognized as a protective or protective partner of EPSV Itzarri. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The 18th point in the subject list: "The Interition, Jason Aguirre Gartanodia EH Collectors to the Chief of Politics, which is so important to a people such as ours in the field of hearsay." Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone, and good afternoon, Mr. Zupiria. The story, the music, the way you see and hear information is completely changed. New technology has turned everything around. We're in another paradigm, but I'm not explaining anything to you, because you know it as well as I do. You're the director of the largest audience in this town and the director of a newspaper. So I don't have to explain anything to you. In fact, you're also the head of the Cultura department, and you know that at this day most of all culture is visible. We see our culture in the platforms, it's the series, the music we hear in the platforms is our culture, culture, radio, podcasts. They transmit values through them, language and world vision. But I don't have to explain anything to you, especially because you're a father, and you'll know how many things you can see, how many languages they consume. I don't think we're going to have much disagreement in the description of the panomama today, but what's to be done before that? What's his plans? That's the point. We... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... We'll have it, but before that, what's going to happen? What's his plans? That's the point. We made a proposal. We have more, but at first we have proposed to create an audience council. Because we don't think it's an anomaly. All over Europe, there are independent organs of this kind in all countries. Everyone, of course, adapts himself to his peculiarity and to his reality. For instance, in Britain, in Belgium, in all the German countryside, they are in the State, they are in the Andalucia, Catalonia, and what has just been founded in Valentia. However, you refused in June. That you had doubts, didn't you? But you said that the Council of FEEEO would either have any contribution or no contribution from the complex state we now live in. But we believe it contributes much. And that's why we told you that we could convince you, holding your doubts. And you remember. That's why we're here now because we're convinced that this is an anomaly. We didn't want this to be a mere parliamental discussion. And that's why we've been reviewed the different councils of vision. Looking round, we think the best thing to know best is that of Catalonia, especially as they themselves are a nation without state, because they speak less language than we do, and especially because they have a long way. That's why the representatives of the Cultural Committee have made a visit the day before yesterday by the Holy Council of Catalonia. And from thence to know what it is, and how it is done by an independent organization of this kind. I don't know if you know him. If you don't know him, I suggest you go there. But, as I have said, you may go to any country in Europe, because they are in all countries. For the rule of the Parliament of Europe and the Council of 2010, 2010/13, demands that such independent institutions should be produced. That story's 11 years ago. As you know, we didn't do it. And I ask you again: Why this anomaly? Why have we not fulfilled this right throughout Europe? Why? If it can be known. I don't know, it's like seeing all the cars go in the wrong direction. Maybe we're right, but it's usually a sign that you're confused. Of course, in the Catalunia, they've filled the European line. And that's what they've been doing. But they were still working before, 20 years ago. How many things have they done for 20 years? And how many of us haven't made? As they told us about our visit, it's a middle-class council. Parliament selects five counselors with two-thirds. It's a stately organ, and more than 90% of the decisions are usually agreed. They've got 74 employees in all. Public and private public or audience media. The traditional ones are examined by the internet. And for that only, 27 of them have access to analysis. In their tasks, which protect the rights of children, they examine whether equality between genera is guaranteed, or whether there is a political and social variety. and by this means they take the necessary measures, both by the penalties and recommendations. The Council of Falalonia has made hundreds of enterprises about it. Now, for instance, he's made remarks about how to deal with anorexia or suicide. Or all the disinformation he's been around the covida and the fake news has been reviewed and filed in some cases. What has he done here? What power have we to influence, to make recommendations, to make authority? To create critical consciousness of seen people. In the Council of Catalonia they measure also the amount of catalon offer in either traditional media or platforms, and whether the rules and engagements surrounding it are fulfilled or not. The Council also has a right to establish rules, as well as to grant the licenses of emission, as independent institutions. He's not dependent on the government. The Council of Catalonia also measures the political and social plurality of visible and audible. As I said, TV3, for instance, is the most visible of all Europe. Every four months they make reports using precise and contractorology. But they even review private media. Who speaks of, of what one speaks, and of what one speaks about, considering these variables. How do we here guard against the multiplicity of public media? That size of miniatures sent to us every month? Is that enough? And the most private? How do they do that to them? Are they tracking them? We have here only the law of the EITB of 40 years old and its controls, which limits to the EIB. And I don't know how many years before the decree entered our houses. But in that vast sea of visuals, EIB, there is only an anchovie near a gigantic whale like Amazon. What are we following here on the contents of such plates as the Amazon or Netflix or Youtube? And you still say that the Council of Vision does not contribute at all. We didn't convince you. You said to us, "Look, we have nets against rumors." What power of decision do they have? And, on the other hand, do they serve to protect the eucalyptus, for instance? Or children? Are these all our instruments to deal with the change that digitalizes us? And we know that Catalonia and we are not the same people, nor democracy, nor socillistic. But they have a different way of doing it, and we think we can learn it from it. We're stuck behind it. We've been in Europe for 10 years. [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... but they have a different way of doing it, and we think we can learn it from it. We're stuck behind it. We've been in Europe for 10 years, and we haven't done anything with 20 hands crossed. But the worst part is this isn't the worst. It is a difficulty not to have heard public councils, but it is still more serious to have no law of audible communication. That's why we depend entirely on the Spanish law. We, for instance, cannot at present establish a measure for the preservation of the eulogies, because we have no other claim to it, though we have a right to it. So Spain decides for us. Soon the law of visual communication in Spain will be discussed in Madrid. How are we going to make him do it? We live in an anomaly. Otherwise, we too would be parallel in writing our own law. We're late, I repeat, late, very late. So, what are you going to do, Mr. Zupiria? What more do you need to convince me, if this is not enough? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u136	Congressmen, Mrs. Aguirre, good morning. Thanks for the information you gave me. I am very grateful to you for bringing here this collection of consequences after your visit, and not to me, but to inform and inform all the members of the legislature. If this people need an open council, they must decide it. And perhaps all the arguments and explanations you have set before us may be useful to this legislature to make its decision. If you ask me my opinion, I think you have not given me one sufficient argument to convince myself. But it's my opinion. I'm not a parliamentary person. I do not make laws; I present and defend the affairs and decisions of the government in this legislature, and I am henceforth obedient to you. You're asking me what kind of initiative you're proposing to a town like ours is so important to an audience. And that's where I'm going. From the information and controversy that stand at the door of the new general law of vision, which is in question. He will establish the field of gambling for the following years in which the Spanish Government is prepared, and which the Spanish Parliament will have to accept, the general laws. It's time to adjust the 2010 Law, because the direction of Europe in 2018 compels the European States to it. The visual sector is shaken by a strong process of change, as you have said well, by a change that is faster and faster. And they are the principal marks of this revolution: fast technological transformation; the innovation and diffusion of formats in visual content, the development of habits and the use of new devices, the manifold profiles of scenes which offer a visible service, and the access of the general nature of many of these to the global contents, to the global contents, and to the various languages; the dynamics of creating and sharing the contents of the citizens, especially among the young; and the weight and time which we offer to the manners of our hearers, as well as to the popular people. This is the reality we have today in the field of audible sights. And all these changes, all these changes, are more and more rapid, and affect everything. It affects the same sector, whether traditional or new service donors, be public or private. They have influence on the activities of services which, during the past few years, are rapidly produced and spread among us. Acting public policies that work with the leaders of the respective organizations and institutions. And of course, and this is the most important thing in every citizen as well as in the head of a family. To answer this new stage, in 2018, Europe adopted a directive in the European Union, and according to this new law of inspection of Spain, which now belongs to the administration of Spain. This law shall establish the foundations of the years to come. And it will also affect Euscadian, which is a new legal frame, and a fundamental legislation. From this point of view, we are to decide whether Eucharin ought to be reviewed or not, and how innovations ought to be brought to us, as the state of Guernica says, for it belongs to us to this community to bring it forward to the law of the fundamental rules of the state. Before we got to this point of the law's discussion, the Euko MUKM has given his opinion, and he defended his judgment in terms of appreciations to present himself to the new bill. For the first time he did it in December 2020, and in the second audience, July 2021. The Minister has not yet accepted the bill of law, and we must see what is going on with the project, and also the way he will follow at court. Yes, I may say that the sketches we have hitherto known have aroused our uneasiness, because we believe that the field of our community may be torn; and so... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... because we think the bounds of the jurisdiction of our community may be violated by sketches; and so have we expressed it in our representatives. We believe that if we do not make strict corrections, the law may go too far, and that is what we would like to avoid by our suggestions. On the one hand, the Constitution of Spain states that the press, radio, and television, and in general the fundamental legislation of the field of social expansion, and that the autonomys belong to the community to develop and enforce the regulation beyond this fundamental principle. It is not only limited to the fundamental rule, and restricts much the limits of the autonomy of Erria, which ours would have for regulating. He proposes, for example, to regulate the example of public offices, of the rank of states, of commonwealths, of all sorts of men. Since the RTVE monopoly was over, many things have happened in Spain in the public television area. And in our case, the Common-wealth of Guernica has the ability to produce its media. And we don't think it's fair for us to create a new stage where the standard of public television on the start from 1982 can be turned upside down by 40 years later, by a general law, on the pretext of a European directive. The draft of the law, for example, sets the EIB, in so far as it is public ente, what counterprogram it should be. This example of authority cannot be established by a law of state, because it would be our jurisdiction. We can all discuss with ourselves the contents which the law proposes, but we believe here the question is in part prior, and at this moment it is clear that we all know that. The second point, I have said, belongs to the government, the second point concerns the respect for diversity of culture and language. And the subject has been in public during the last few days, and we are worried about ourselves. For months we have been in contact with different agents, with the great appurtenances and producers of modern visible services, eucarating productions or eucalyptic performances, and making a place in this market. We must also say in this matter that we do not know how they are made from various places. On the one hand, there is a question of the emissions of European productions, on the other hand, of the finance of these productions, and we should like to influence them both in the state as we would have it from other languages. And we should like, as is the case with great chains, to consider not only the languages of youth, but also the rest of the Common-wealth, where the thoughts of the original of production are established, or the use of languages. As a subject of great complexity, this subject will have a profound discussion of the following months, and of the defending of the observations of our Euscau-views, we are to make use of all the intervals offered by the wardens of Europe, to bring great enterprises to the euca and eucavia. I don't know the way of necessity. I'd prefer to develop the real interest of these companies and raise the interest of our creators and producers. Because I think that we can do anything from eucatra and euscis to produce attractive and quality products and place them anywhere. My intuition is the way we should follow. A lot of thieves.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u137	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u138	Thank you, ma'am. When you said you were a spokesman or didn't make any laws. You don't... How much? You don't have to introduce 31? We'll decide whether or not we'll discuss it or not, but I think that-" , en fine. Then you've just said that we can discuss the Spanish law among all of us. All right, let's discuss our proposal, let's take it to the tramite. Admit what we propose, because you don't propose anything, that's your void, that's another anomaly. We have come to fill that void, because you must present 31 to the legal proposition, and there is none to be seen in so great a time as to be heard; there is none at all. So we've filled that void with our legal proposition, so accept it. You've given your criteria, change your criteria, let's accept. Let's take the legend and discuss it, and then we'll discuss Madrid as well. And besides, you see such a kind of despair. If you observe that the law of Madrid does not receive many things, O sera, there are not in this law certain parts of Europe which are demanded for the rules of justice. That is why I said that we ought to be parallel in making our own visible law, because we can get those things that are not received, and that we can regulate our own field of vision. And I see you in despair. [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... Because we can and we can regulate our own field of vision. And I see you desperate, I don't know, given everything, and not wanting to fight, and without a desire to reach it. Look, I'm in charge of diaspo at the Basque Country, where, as in the international team, we have a central axis or idea, and we're too small a people to be divided into the world, and that depends on what we're doing. We've met at the same time. ) I believe we are too small a people to be divided against great revolutions. We must unite our forces. We've got the energy pact to agree. We also believe in education that we need a large consent to decide what work we're going to do. And we also believe that it is in an audible communication. Education has worked in education all these years, but it can't be alone. Our young and young people spend a great part of the day on the visible occasions, I believe, the greatest part of their leisure. They receive culture by hearsay, language, and language, which is not for the eucatitude. We, at the present day, believe our language, that our culture is at a critical moment, and that if we do not unite our forces, we will not survive as a people. Therefore, without political scepticism, but with sincerity, I beseech you: let's talk, argue, come to an agreement. We have proposed a proposal, good in our opinion, but we can improve it, but we can't lose time quickly, we're late in years. We owe it to the people, and it is our responsibility to act as a people to give them our best of honesty. Our language is moving the most critical moment, and we don't have the tools to upset it. If we want to remain as a people, we must have a strong, well-ordered field of vision. So let's get together our strength, we're too small a people to be divided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u140	Mrs. President, Congressman, Mrs. Aguirre. I think it's a moment of discussion. All the political parties here represented have a delegation in the Parliament of Madrid. And I think it's the right argument at this moment, and it's the time to do what you have to defend yourself in the place where you have to defend yourself. It's a priority. I think so, and so I defend myself. I told you in the previous act that in the Euskaka there is an entertainment and a net built in the last decades. There's a job and there's talent, there's professionals and they're qualified for high-level studies and technical training areas. We have powerful public policies for promote development and production. Among them, as a mere example, the recent festival of Donostia, the prized Kim, or the festival itself, or Zinebi, or Zinebi, or, like so many other festivals, the market, the dividers, etc., and so on. We have a special and public communication, which has hitherto been economically useful, which offers public service, and is a means and support for visual sector. And apparently, from this point of view, we have a whole ecosystem and may be a breach of strength, but if we look at it from a prism in the wide world, we have a situation surrounded by threats. The globalization of the sector is involved with the constant changes of technological transformation, of format and of consumption. And in this general context we must seek and gain our place. We have to compete in that global square, and the rules of gambling in that square are regulated by many degrees. In European cases, first in the degree of Europe, then in states, and then in the countries. What Europe does not regulate will be difficult to regulate, to regulate, or to regulate in a degree of State, and it will be still more difficult to restrain, regulate, regulate, and regulate, by a tacit advice, which is not confined to Europe or to the State. Europeans have a terrible challenge in the field of visual contents. This great union with 300 million observers of vision or consumers has not hitherto been able to produce, distribute, or consume the contents which interest the people of Europe. Every state, region, or language which is in Europe, wills equally with what an Anglo-Saxon produces and offers in English. It can't be a dream of Europe, to have an American production center or (... that they should be one, or that they should have them in English, subtyped, or duplicated, into our languages. It cannot be the European dream, and it is a challenge that we have all Europeans and all Europeans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u141	Thank you, Zupiria. [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... it cannot be the European dream, and it is a challenge that we have all Europeans and all Europeans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-01.u142	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at one o'clock in the afternoon and at twenty-eight.
