ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u0	Good morning, everyone. I inform you that seventeen and eighteen points have been left for another purpose. First point in theme list: "The question is, that Louis Javier Tellería Errools, a member of the staff of the U.S. E.A.st., made to the president, about the administration of Pandemy of COVID-19." Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u1	Thank you, ma'am. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. The Basque Parliament accepted yesterday with vast protection the new law of measurements for managing COVID-19 pandemia. Euskadin, and around us, the indicators on the pandemois development, the National Advision Committee of LABI... dintaren ambera) Zintaren hasiera) ... yesterday he had a new law of measurements for managing COVID-19 pandemy. Euskadin, and around us, the indicator of the pandema's development, has arrived at the positive tendency which the LABI Advocacy Committee has confirmed on Friday when it is confirmed. This tendency is also strengthened by the increase and the pressure of the Basque Hospital gradually decreased. From a legal point of view, this law, as we said it was our intention, we understand that it will give greater legal certainty to the decisions that are being taken to continue fighting this pandemic. On the other hand, from a social and health point of view, it is clear that, after more than 15 months since the health emergency declaration, we are in a much more favourable situation. After rising and falling, everything seems to indicate, without preventing new alarms and new challenges, that uncertainty has been reduced, even if prudence has to be maintained, that there seems to be an end to all this, and that Basque society faces this new situation with renewed hope. Considering this context and the interest of society in this new stage, the question to the President is the following: How can accepting this law helps to improve the management of the pandemia situation we are in? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u2	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u3	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. The World Organization of Health declared pandemy on the 11th of March last year. From that time forth, Euskadin 4.395 people have died. Our first memory is also to-day with dead people and their relatives. We've got to make an exception decision across the Pandema. For the first time in Euskadin's medical emergency, and in the state the legal support of our decisions was a state of alarm. The second time, on May 9th, the order of alarm was abolished in the State, without any new rule to represent it. Experience of this kind, and the various solutions of the Autonomical Courts of Justice, showed us the necessity of a natural law, a law which will ensure the legal protection of the decisions which we receive at this exceptional period. We have to remember that the pandemary is still among us. The first contribution of the new law is to strengthen the legal certainty of the decisions to be taken from tomorrow. Thus, the Bizi Berri IV Plan, which is planned for July to October, will have the express coverage of this law. The second contribution of this law is preventive. The data improves day by day. However, our responsibility is to anticipate a possible adverse scenario, if there is a retrogression or a new variant causes an increase in contagion. With this law we will be better prepared. The third contribution, looking to the future in an equal situation, which I hope will never happen, would not start from scratch. When the Basque Civil Protection Advisory Council, LABI, was approved four decades ago, no one would think we could suffer a pandemic. The LABI has now proved to be effective. The law will also be effective for the future, because it captures the lessons learned during this pandemic. Thanks to this new law, institutions and society have a solid, contrasted and consensual basis to offer more effective and more secure responses. Clearly, and we admit we weren't prepared for such a situation. This subject has been applied to the support of this law. That's why I'd like to confess the interview and cooperation between the legislatures that made the law possible. I'm just trying to make a difference between you and Podemus. In fact, based on the act of opposition, he has shown the constructive and effective will for our society. This law adds to a context of improvement. Two months ago, the incidence rate reached 546. Today it's about 105. The occupancy of UCI beds was 195. Yesterday, it was 35. In just six months, 1,200,000 people have already received a dose of the vaccine, and 800,000 of them have received the full schedule. We're approaching group immunity. This summer we'll get it. We live a moment of hope and prudence, of prudence. We hope the best, without lowering the guard, maintaining responsible prevention, maintaining the open, constructive and practical spirit of collaboration that I thank Elkarrekin Podemos, Socialist Party and Basque Nationalist Party, as well as EH Bildu and People's Party-Citizens who, despite their positions, have considered necessary a law and this law. We have passed a law that strengthens hope and recalls prudence. It will help us in the present and in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Second point on the subject list: "About the balance of the political year." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u5	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Urkullu, good morning. It's about time to balance the year after these minutes of publicity. And, to be honest, I wasn't surprised at your auto-detective response because you've been able to adapt data and reality to yours lately. But the law which was accepted yesterday is the perfect metaphor for the administration of your government: late, after all, the worst and most effective. A metaphor for a Government that is more focused on making decisions than on making effective decisions. And today, claro a ver how... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... next to nothing but evil and efficiency. Metáfora de un Gobierno máscentrado ecer que toma decisis que en tomar decies efficaces. And today, clarro, the way you're justifying this disorder, if you're not even able to give us understandable instructions in a communication this week. But it is impossible that the mask is necessary in the street, and after entering into the law, it is automatically abandoned, almost the same day, and the rest has been begun. And we had a good chance, as I said here, a good opportunity to prepare the present and the future, and it's lost. As I read in a newspaper, the law that was born dead. And I'm telling you it's the perfect metaphor of your management, as well as the other one, because he's made it clear to you that he's dependent on the state. The Pandema has shown that we have not enough tools to protect the Basques. That happened over and over. This is also your business, because you have refused to act as a people, and to form a vast alliance. I don't know how many times I've repeated it at this dock, but a collective exercise needed as a people is a new diary and a new look. And we've made this offer from the Basque People in the United States over and over again, but you've despised them all. We've done more than 70 proposals in different areas to face conclusions since the pandemia started, and you've pushed 83% back. And the result is evident, far from its capacity and capacity of this people. It is no exaggeration to say that your Government is right when it corrects, as with the texts, vaccination. We now have, indeed, good data and we welcome it, but for weeks we have been at the tail of the state. And things have changed when they finally understood that the opposition's proposals were not unbridled. And I believe that in this respect, in the case of vaccines, we must continue, we must be prepared for the new strains and we must re-scatter. But it also passed with the trade bonds and aid to the sectors concerned, etc.; at first everything that is not, and then in that way it is. You're still doing it forever and forever, in this possible prison prison, in patience. And at times like that you know what it's like to say: sleep and eat thin. I think the time has come to make the most profound transformations, and we are trying the Basque People in the Union, asking you for the public leadership and the government required by the moment. And though it be not easy, I think we have also obtained important agreements: The energy pact, the electric motion, the gigaphone, IMV. And there are many more, but there could be more of them, Mr. Urkullu. For instance, the European funds, but you didn't want to. I am about to conclude, to reflect, to change my mind, and to be the leader of this people, to share the resolutions of the future. I think it's a matter of political concern. For to-day the absolute majority is absolute, but it is evident that you have the weakest government of all time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Irriture, the balance of the law is still positive. One, we got hold of the virus transmission. We're getting results. In November we had 850 cases, and now we're down to 100. More than 95% of people over 50 years are immune. We're getting both, growth, and employment back. We've accepted the highest of all. "Ming has turned $3,000 to face the covida: $1.800 million health, education, social protection, or direct assistance, and loans and abdications to $1,200 million. Our caudation has improved. We're getting results. An example, we've been able to maintain previous education 99%. Three, we're filling up the program and we're keeping 16 of our strategic plans. Even here, in the legislature, we shall present in all 15 legislative designs from the Government: The 11 legal project, three other billings, and the agreed budget. Four, we're promoting the future. We have agreed to resurrect the program. In the last two years, we're going to invest 5,000 euros, and we're gonna help promote 40,000 jobs. With that, Euskadi Next, a program that helps the first regions, and we have accepted the new plans of science, technology, and innovation. We're getting results. We have settled in Europe among the countries which have advanced innovation. Five, we're strengthening the self-engine. We continue to negotiate the Chronogram of possible transfers. We're getting results. We have agreed to the jurisdiction of prisons, and three other jurisdictions. We got it on the security board. Euscadi is located at the inflexium point of recovery, and we've made strong foundations for a better future. I'll remember the balance made by several independent institutions. One, the Defense Of Public Health of the State, the Federation of the Associations. He says that the community with the best health services in the state is Basque. Two, according to the investigation of the University of Göteborge University Government High Schools, belong to the European countries which are precursors in the quality of government, and we are the first of all the communities. Three, the Directors of State Social Services and the Administration Association, according to our examination, the Basque head is in accordance with the quality and readiness of social services throughout the state. I share, Mrs Iriarte, also with you, the direct opinion expressed by Basque citizens. Social Welfare study carried out by Eustat in 2020: the satisfaction of the Basque population with their lives is 7.6 out of 10; despite being the year of the pandemic, it has improved since 7.1 in 2014. Study on the management of the pandemic, June 2021: 77 % of Basque citizenship qualifies Osakidetza with a notable or outstanding; 12 % with an approved one; and only... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... June 2021 77% of Basque citizenship qualifies Osakidetza with a notable or outstanding, 12% with an approved and only 5% gives him a suspension. 96% of citizens approve of the actions of health professionals. 82% of citizens approve of the management of the Basque Government in this pandemic. This positive assessment of Basque society encourages us to continue to improve every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Julie St. Vicente Basque Sociialist, made to the chief physician of Tourism, commerce, and Comssamoremo, concerning the control of irregularities in the bladders." Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u9	President. Ladies and gentlemen. Let's talk about the masks in this rostrum again. We'll do it a few hours before they change their regulations. We are going to move from full-time regulation to part-time regulation, from a need to take it permanently to an option to take it occasionally depending on what the circumstances generate. Let us say that there is a greater responsibility to citizens in this case, because you have to choose where there is risk, where there is danger and, therefore, where it should be protected and where it should be protected. That we go to a more open regulation does not mean that the instrument ceases to be effective and has, moreover, necessarily to be used. We are seeing that there are countries in the world that are making more progress in this opening of health controls and that, however, new outbreaks, new strains, some abuses, some misuses are leading to some step backwards. And, therefore, what happens elsewhere must also teach us. And it must also give it the prominence, the importance it has to this instrument that has been shown to be an effective air regulator that we breathe, an effective regulator of those harmful elements that are in the air and that we need to protect ourselves from. That is why the role of public administrations, in this case the Basque Government, in this case the advice that you have responsibility, very directly from Kontsumobide, has been very important so that, by ensuring security, guarantees, the effectiveness of masks, citizens, who have made a remarkable social, economic, personal effort, can be assured that the instrument is an appropriate and functioning instrument. About three months ago, three months less a day like this, in this House it was announced on which lines a campaign of control and guarantees on the quality of masks was to be carried out. Three months later that is done and it is necessary to know those results. Because, indeed, as you will see, there have been those who have wanted to slip down the path of fraud, the path of irregularity in relation to this product so essential to protect and protect others. And, therefore, it is important that, as a tribute also to the citizens who have had to carry this instrument for a long time and who will have to continue to carry it, what better tribute to that effort than to guarantee them from the public administrations that the mask does, the one that is for sale, the one that can be purchased in the different establishments, it does comply with the rules, with the guarantees and, therefore, it is effective. In this sense the question is asked, Mr Hurtado. And I believe that, in an exercise of transparency towards citizens, it is very important to know what has been the result of this campaign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u10	Thank you, Mr Price. To answer, Mr. Hurtado, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. And thank you, Mr Prieto, for giving the opportunity to explain here today the situation of the sanctioning campaign which, in fact, I had the opportunity to announce in this very House at the end of March, and which took place during the months of April and May. And to do so, in fact, just today, when the Royal Decree Law 13/2021, amending Law 2/2021, on urgent measures to prevent containment and coordination to deal with the health crisis caused by COVID-19, has been published. But it is important to remember that we have come to this situation through a vaccination process. A vaccination process that is being successful thanks to the collective work of science, professionals and institutions. Yesterday we met the new record of 733,245 doses put in all of Spain. But it's important not to lower the guard. Because both the success of the vaccination process and the flexibilisation measures we take, for example, in the last LABI or those we have met today, cannot bring us down the guard, because the virus is still with us. And, therefore, the mask will also have to accompany us for a long time. Masks will no longer be mandatory in outdoors where they can keep their distance. But they remain a fundamental tool in the fight against coronavirus. It is important to remember its necessary role in the pandemic. They've avoided thousands and thousands of contagions. And they will continue to do so, because they will continue to be necessary also as a tool against flu and other respiratory diseases. And, in view of this situation, the authorities responsible for market inspection must be particularly vigilant. And that's how we're doing it. From Kontsumobide we have carried out several campaigns adapted to the circumstances at every moment, from the point of view of health measures, also of market developments and of the product itself. The previous campaigns analysed the situation of labelling in the marketing of hygienic masks and PPE. And we've detected a lot of breaches in labelling. And, therefore, we announced that we would start a new campaign with a sanctioning character and adapted to the new circumstances and the new regulations of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs that came into force on the 30th of... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... therefore, we announced that we would start a new campaign with a sanctioning character, and adapted to the new circumstances and the new regulations of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, which entered into force on 30 March. From Euskadi we have wanted to approach this campaign with rigour, and, therefore, it has been the broadest carried out by the Autonomous Communities. Firstly, because we have included grid masks as a preferred product of analysis, given the controversy about their effectiveness and the extent of their use. And second, because we wanted to include a wide range of samples for shipment to the laboratory, in addition to the labeling control. Therefore, this hygiene mask inspection campaign has analyzed two parameters: labelling and bacterial filtration. The inspectors have visited physical establishments in the three territories, and samples of 28 different models have been taken, of which 8 were made of grid. Well, the conclusion of the inspection is that all grid masks we've detected for sale in Euskadi establishments fail to comply with bacterial filtration regulations. Of the filtration, which according to the UNE standard should reach at least 95%, none of the 8 models had a filtration above 27.5, and some had a filtration of only 9.8. In the face of a breach of these characteristics, from Kontsumobide we have proceeded to immobilize these models of grid mask, and remove them from the market in Euskadi, in addition to giving notice to the Ministry's Alert Network, to inform and warn the rest of the autonomous communities. On the other hand, in the rest of the hygienic masks, both reusable and of single use, of the 20 models analyzed 3 did not comply with bacterial filtration, with percentages ranging from 76 to 91, when they should be 90 in those of single use and 95 in reusable ones. In the rest of the models, the laboratory test has been correctly passed, although some deficiencies in labelling have continued to be detected which are remediable. At present the campaign is at a stage of allegations by companies and of compliance with administrative deadlines in the Alert Network. And we want to make sure that at all times the rights of consumers are respected with legal guarantees, and the processes come to fruition. We are faced with an extraordinary situation in which the health authorities and the consumer authorities must continue to extend care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u12	Thank you. It's over, Mr. Hurtado. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, Jon Hernandez Hidalez, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos-IU team for the chief physician of the Medical Department, about reducing the hours and services in the Osaments next summer." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u13	Good morning, everyone. Sailburu andrea, during the next months of summer Osakidetza will see reduced some services and timetables of care to citizens in public health. It is a policy that we are going to call summer cuts, which the Basque Government carries out every year when summer comes. A policy that undermines basic health-care rights of citizens. Shortcuts of hours in primary care and cuts in some services which, in our view, are due to the fact that the model of the Basque Government takes precedence over mere statistics in the face of certain health needs. This year, in our view, these cuts are of particular importance. They are particularly serious because they have a greater impact on a situation where both health and health care are being severely affected by the long months of pandemic. Months of delay in health care for people, and a public health that continues to be – let me say – in a state of alarm, somehow. How will we recover the time lost in health care due to the pandemic if we continue to apply these types of cuts in the summer, as if nothing had happened? We ask whether the Basque Government intends to maintain this policy of summer cuts in public health this summer, despite the need for greater health care caused by the pandemic.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u14	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u15	Mr. President of the Parliament, members of the legislature, President, good morning. It is not true that the basic rights of citizenship will be accepted. The health care of citizens is still guaranteed. However, the management of public resources requires that these resources be adapted to the reality of demand. It would not be reasonable to maintain the same intensity in the provision of services when demand, for example in primary care consultations, is reduced by at least 33 % during the summer period. At the moment, the demand for the pandemic in the hospital sector has been improved. We're still on stage 2, but it's not the same intensity. The effort in primary care has been enormous in time, but at the moment the incidence has also decreased. Where we are being demanded an extraordinary effort, even today, is in vaccination. And that's where we're putting all the means. The service is not reduced because the demand is not reduced. At the most, we will reorder the vaccination points to be more efficient in view of the expected arrival of more vaccines that we want to administer, at the same time as being supplied to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u17	Thank you, chief physician. The effort or over-effort that Osakidetza has to make in view of vaccination cannot in any way be an argument for the cuts in services and schedules that are given in Osakidetza in summer, among other things because other years have been given. And among other things, because these past few weeks have been immunizing very large sections of the population, and those summer cuts are not yet in place. We think that shortening the opening time, for example, of health centers, something that will be given; let us recognize, for the moment, in Barakaldo, in Sestao, in the OSI Bilbao-Basurto... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ...summers. We think that shortening the opening time, for example, of health centres, something that was to be given that we know at the moment in Barakaldo, in Sestao, at OSI Bilbao-Basurto, but that we think is going to be done in a generalized way, to us seems a cut and it is a cut that affects the services of the citizenry. We are also going to insist on an idea. We believe that in the current situation – I have told you on some occasion in the committee – we must be careful about the demand. To us this statistical management, and more now seems dangerous to us. We know that during the pandemic many people who need to go to public health have not done so for different reasons, among other reasons, because of the exceptional situation in which accessibility to public health is found. We believe that this is a cut in the rights of the population that cease to have such an important health resource as is the reference of their primary care centre. On the other hand, having to go to hospitals or continuing care centres creates an overburden of care in these emergency centres, while reducing the quality of care for the population by having fewer health resources. I know that you allude to the lack of staff, but we think that the solution to the lack of staff cannot be sought in the cut in our clinics and health centres in the summer and, of course, neither in the precariousness of working conditions, because this affects the working conditions of the Osakidetza workers, with whom you have not even been able to negotiate these kinds of measures. They're denouncing him and them these days. We ask you not to make this mistake. At the moment we need more public health, no less public health, regardless of the time of year. We think it is the same erratic management of all the summers that you are not able to solve, but this year, as I told you, about a health system that is severely affected by the pandemic, that is, we need this summer more public health to recover the lost time, not less, which is what it seems you are doing, because people do not choose when to get sick and in summer, logically, they also do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u18	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u19	That the demand for assistance in the summer period is usually reduced is a fact and, in fact, it was mentioned earlier. Medical consultations tend to decrease by at least 33% with what we have been looking after in winter. And that happens every year and this year too will happen. We want the staff to rest, I too; we want the service to be maintained, I too, but adjusted to real demand. I imagine that we will also want to square the equation by hiring replacement staff and it is not an excuse to tell you that there is not as much as we would like, it is a reality, but it is also a reality that our obligation is to adjust to the demand the service that is provided, so in order to be able to fit your wishes with mine with the reality of the service and with the staff available, the schedules and places of care in summer, as is done every year, yes, because every year happens that it is not the same rate of demands according to the season of the year. Not always for that the proposals have been the same, this is not the case, the level of care has always been the same, health care is guaranteed for all citizens. Generally speaking, what is done in health centres is as follows: The centres with regular hours of 8 to 20 hours in the summer are open from 8 to 17, and the centres with regular hours of 8 to 17 hours in the summer are open from 8 to 15. The attention does not disappear, it is reduced in a few hours according to that demand. Osakidetza's commitment to cover the absences throughout this summer is firm and therefore we will hire wherever necessary, provided there are staff available, as we have always done, and you have proved it. Vaccination continues to require extraordinary recruitment because it has an extraordinary demand. And we with all the available possibilities keep that service as fast as possible because that's where we have to concentrate our forces now too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Five point in theme list: question, as Charles Iturgai, Angulo Euskal Group Popular-Ciudads, the new political status to the president." My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Mr. President, good morning. This is the last full session control and the beginning of the summer seems to have revived the so-called "new status". As a summer snake it is not bad, but what we want to know is whether the intended new status will count on the satisfaction of the entire Basque Government and, in particular, its, lehendakari. Two weeks ago you decided not to answer because the issue was not explicitly in the question; today I hope you explicitly answer an explicit question to the case. From Bildu you have already been reminded with those who can enter those swampy lands, with them and with no one else. In Catalonia we have already seen how far the dislate and the effects of such a thing can go on society, and we also know from the times of the Ibarretxe plan what happens when the most irresponsible nationalists start to burst the country, ignoring its plural reality. That is why I ask you, lehendakari, how you appreciate the impact that it may have on stability and coexistence of the reactivation of the debate around a purported new political status for the Basque Country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u22	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. As president, sir, I'm a registered self-portrait... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm responsible for protecting the confessional auto-office as president. The Spanish Government has for the first time accepted a calendar to convey to the Basque jurisdictions which are to be transferred. The Common-wealth of Guernica is the Law granted to the Congress of the Common-wealths, and the Congress of the Representatives, the Law confirmed either by a Refrendum, or by the Consecration of the Common-wealths. An uncompleted organic law. To speak, dispute, negotiate, and to cultivate agreement is a business of politics. This parliament is therefore a forum of political discussion, and it is useful for us to set the discussion of the political status of the Basques in this parliament. It's our job, it's our responsibility. I welcome the idea of reviving this political debate here and now, here in this Parliament, where our sovereignty resides. Now, at a time of global transformation. Discussions do not threaten stability or coexistence. The imposition or denial of dialogue does cause problems. The normalization of debate and political negotiation is a deepening of democracy. Their denial or demonization leads to dead ends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. The word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u26	It is clear that you, Mr Urkullu, want the debate, of course, on this Statute, but we want to know what kind of Statute, what kind of debate you want, Mr Urkullu, because yesterday Mr Ortuzar raised his voice trying to catch the Catalan wave. The pandemic we know has occupied all the attention of your Government with greater or lesser accuracy for a year, but as soon as the figures have given a breath, authorized voices have taken care to get out of your (?) put new status to walk, and it wasn't us. What we're not going to do is look somewhere else, and the letters have been distributed very soon. His partner in the Socialist Government said that he did not want to know anything about the issue if that Statute went in the right direction. Bildu has already claimed, as he said earlier, the copyright of this model that came to fit into the last legislature. We want to know whether you will look elsewhere and let the debate unfold in Bildu's hand in search of a break or whether you will defend, as we do in my group, the People's and Citizens' Party, coexistence, the understanding between Basques, which the Spanish Constitution and the Statute of Gernika have made possible during all this time. Understand me well lehendakari, here we are not new, neither (...) claimed new status. The subject is old, as old as the plan of Ibarretxe or the melancholic dreams of the most night-time nationalism. Nothing gets us off the hook, then. We also have society today, you know, less independenceist and less friend of useless adventures in several decades. And in case something was missing, the Catalan mirror has made clear what a prosperous, democratic and plural society can expect from a drift like that. That's why we have to go forward from the beginning lehendakari, or we defend frames where we break all the Basques, all of them, or we opt for break scenarios that will always break between Basques, long before the break of the Basques with the rest of the Spaniards, long before. Now we want to know who you're going to be with and how responsibly you're going to act. Most Basques want you to be with your coexistence, with your understanding, with the stability and prosperity of Basque society, and not with the breakup, and not with the confrontation between Basques who advocate the irresponsible forever. I don't know if you have a map, a compass, a road map, an app that saves the Basques from going back all those ways anywhere. But we know the views of many of your party colleagues, of your president, of the party, of the president of the House, of your partners, of the other groups present here, and now we want to know yours as lehendakari and not as disciplined, affiliated with the Basque Nationalist Party, if I may. So far your position is, as some say, like the one you depend on, isn't it? I tell him that between coexistence and rupture he depends on irresponsibility, lehendakari, so I ask him not to throw balls out in his second intervention and bring irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u27	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u28	Eskerrik asko, legebiltzarburu andrea. Mr Iturgaiz, let me tell you that in my opinion you remain anchored in the past, so many references to the above. And in any case, I remind you that we have consumed two decades of the 21st century, and the transformations are profound and incessant: globalization, economic crisis, pandemic, technological and digital transitions, energy and ecological, demographic challenge, Agenda 2030. And in this context, any country must consider the tools it has to adapt to a changing and changing world. Or do you continue to argue that the Statute is already fulfilled, Mr Iturgaiz, or do you continue to argue that we no longer have to transfer the Statute of Gernika, adopted in 1979 and more than 40 years still to be fulfilled in its entirety. In addition to compliance, our self-government must be updated, updated, as envisaged by the Additional Provision of the Statute of Gernika. The Basque people do not renounce their rights under their history, which may be updated in accordance with the legal order. For our part, I repeat, we will do our utmost to enlarge this new agreement to the fullest. More and better self-government is synonymous with stability and coexistence, it will contribute to further improving the well-being and living conditions of our society, for that, it must serve the debate on the updating of our self-government. I would regret if they stayed out of this process anchored in the past. My invitation is to take the lead of the President of the People's Party of Bizkaia, who literally states: "I defend an idea and principles, and if EH Bildu or Vox enter that circle of action, we can coincide." End of date. This is the essence of politics... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... "...and if EH Bildu or Vox enter that action circle, we can match." End of date. This is the essence of politics: defending an idea and seeking consciences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Ask Madia Martin the Greys, the parliamentary members of the Misto team to the president, to give the Guildian trade and the sector of turbism to the Eurocopa for not celebrating the damages." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u30	Madam President, Lehendakari, councillors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. I do not come here to talk about football, about how the Euro Cup is going, about the game of Italy or Germany, which you like so much, Mr Lehendakari, when you face Spain. Today I come to talk about the pandemic, about its management of the pandemic, about the cost it is having for broad sectors of our economy. When there was a closed agreement with UEFA to host meetings of the Spanish Selection in Bilbao, its unorthodox demands made it impossible for the Eurocopa to land in the capital of Vizcaine with the fans, the activity, the millions of euros and the prestige that such an event would have left in the city. And now, lost already the European contest and the money, the reduction of restrictions for public access to sports competitions is removed from his joke. That is why I ask you, Mr Lehendakari, what steps do you intend to take to help the sectors most affected by your efforts to ensure that Bilbao does not host Spanish selection parties?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u31	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, to answer you, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, that's the crux of the matter: hosting parties of the Spanish Selection. As far as I know, San Mames will host three more football selections. In any case, Mrs Martínez, I thank you for knowing of my tastes. But I will also tell you that the measures taken by the Basque institutions have been the right ones at all times. First, in 2014, when Bilbao's candidacy for the European Cup was presented and defended. Secondly, when, at a time of high incidence of the pandemic, on 18 April, health requirements were established to preserve the priority of public health. Thirdly, when the position of the Basque institutions has been defended and an agreement has been reached with UEFA, which will be positive for all parties, including the trade and tourism sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u34	Mr Lehendakari, there are two words that defend your management of the pandemic: improvisation and arbitrariness. In May, when he consummated his refusal to host in Bilbao parties of the Spanish Selection, he made an excuse that his demands were not met so that in the stands of San Mamés he would have publicized. I remember it was 30% they were asking for. Its requirements at the time were that the incidence of coronavirus in the Basque Country would be around 40 positive per 100,000 inhabitants, that 60% of the population would be vaccinated, that the occupancy of ICU beds would be below 2%, and that the traceability of cases would be over 90%. UEFA, of course, considered its conditions abusive, and took the business to Seville, and the window that could have been Bilbao. You knew or should have known that UEFA would not accept your demands. You should know that the consequences would also be serious. Lose a direct impact of at least EUR 61 million on hotels, restaurants, transport, shops and tourist services of all kinds. Economic injection that these sectors have received in Seville. Loss of at least another 140 million due to the media impact of the retransmission of the parties. Loss of a window in Europe and the rest of the world, at a time of special need. And the worst of all: let go of a golden opportunity for the revival of the sectors that, more harshly, have received the fatal impact of the restrictions that you have been deciding, opportunity that these days celebrate, of course, in Seville. You, Mr Urkullu, are the first, the main responsible for this tremendous hole that cannot, of course, compensate for the work done or the finals of the Europe League, in the 24th, and the Women's Champion, in the 25th. The excuse we already know. The reality of the pandemic was another; difficult decisions had to be made; the presence of a Spanish symbol in Bilbao had to be avoided. But the reality is that now, frustrated the business, he sees with good eyes the public in the stadiums. And the impact of the pandemic is greater than what they drew their impossible conditions. It required an incidence of less than 50, and today we are above this figure. It required 60% of the population to be vaccinated and we barely reached 50%. It required a maximum occupation in the ICUs of 2% and we're about 15. It required a 90's traceability, and we didn't get to 50. All of this confirms to you as the main responsible for such a demeanor, responsible for not reaching Bilbao and the Basque Country with an important economic injection at the time when it is most needed. Responsible that bars, restaurants, hotels, museums, taxi drivers cannot benefit from the oxygen ball that is being the Euro Cup. And also responsible for the bad image that Bilbao now enjoys in UEFA. If you were ill-advised, Mr. Urkullu, dispense with your advisers. And if you already knew, and the misconception is your fault, you finish the sentence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u35	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Martínez, you have failed to finish your sentence: "responsible for the Spanish Selection not to play in Bilbao". That's... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ...Mrs. President of Parliament. Mrs. Martínez, you have failed to finish your sentence: "responsible for the Spanish Selection not to play in Bilbao". He missed that. Why don't you say it so clearly? Look, first, the same institutions and the same people that we defended Bilbao's candidacy in 2014 we have defended the requirements for hosting the parties and we have endorsed the agreement reached with UEFA, an agreement reached with UEFA. We haven't changed. The situation has changed: today we suffer a pandemic that conditions our entire life, starting with public health. Secondly, the requirements for hosting the European Cup matches in Bilbao were defined by the health authorities and communicated to UEFA on 18 April. At that time, the incidence rate was higher than 500 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, five times higher than the current one. It is curious that you always defend and appeal to the scientific and technical criteria of professional experts. Always less in this case than the Spanish Selection should have played in Bilbao. What do you intend to do? Are you suggesting that the institutions should have lowered the recommendations of the health authorities? We have acted with rigour and transparency, giving priority to public health. It would be good if it were to be fixed in the data of the Public Health Directorate of the Ministry of Health, of the current data by autonomous communities, and compare also in reference to what you raise in this question. Thirdly, the final agreement reached is satisfactory for all parties, starting with the UEFA itself, and the supporting Basque institutions. This agreement is beneficial in every way. First, UEFA pays the Basque institutions €1,300,000. It compensates for all expenses incurred in submitting and preparing the application. Secondly, UEFA is committed to celebrating, yes, two European finals in Bilbao: the end of the Europe League and the Women's Champions in 24 and 25. These two finals will be held in San Mamés, which has a total capacity of 53,000 spectators. We can therefore estimate that more than 100,000 people could come. You compare the potential return with a total capacity of 100,000 people in Bilbao with that of the 36,000 people who have been able to attend the three parties held in Seville. Thirdly, UEFA has made public recognition of the seriousness and consistency of the management carried out by the Basque institutions over all these years since 2014, including this past year and a half of the pandemic, and the agreement reached is the best endorsement received. The final balance sheet of the agreement reached, therefore, is positive, and we must now focus on making return as beneficial as possible, also from an economic point of view. To this end, we will continue to work together with the Basque institutions and the UEFA. To this end, we will continue to work with all Basque institutions to make Euskadi a benchmark for international sporting events as well and we can be one of the venues of the 2030 World Cup. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Four Garrido Knörre Basque Group of the Popular-Ciudadans, made to the second vice president, and the chief physician of the Eplegus, about the reforming of the profession Euscal Enplegu Service." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u38	Thank you, Mr. President, President, chief physician. Well, last November, Mrs Mendia, we asked you the same question that we see today in the need to rephrase it in relation to the Lanbide reform, the well-known Lanbide reform that seems never to arrive. We know of the intention of this Government and, in particular, of its department, as I said, of the intention to carry out a comprehensive reform of Lanbide, not now, but already the last legislature. We have the diagnosis of the situation, and it is worrying; it should be noted that it was already worrying in the previous legislature, as you yourself acknowledged in the reply you gave me last November. He talked about transforming, changing Lanbide to make it efficient in training, guidance, activation for employment, and in the management and processing of benefits. He then told us that he had an already complete map of the things that should be transformed. That is why, Madam Counsellor, we are failing, once and for all, to materialise those commitments, to set a date for them, to move on to action. That is why we ask you again: what criterion will your department follow to transform Lanbide into an effective service when it comes to managing the financial benefits provided for in the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act, and to turn it into an effective service also in activation for employment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u39	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. To answer, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u40	Yeah. Thank you. Mrs. Garrido, I'm sorry you haven't heard from me about Lanbide's transformation. And as you yourself acknowledge, exactly seven months ago you asked me the exact same question, only that, in it, the only novelty you incorporate in today's question is that you have no news of changes in Lanbide, the rest is identical. And the truth is that if it wasn't because I come to Parliament and see you sitting in this seat and you ask me questions, I have had private meetings with you, as with the rest of the groups in this House, and in addition to the first appearance where I explained the department's strategic lines, and in addition to the budget appearance, I met with you to explain Lanbide Hobetzen, Lanbide's improvement program. I have also recently offered you the opportunity to have a meeting to explain to you where the reform of the Income Guarantee System is going. And also, as you know, because you were present in that debate, we had the opportunity to discuss the Basque Employment Strategy 2030. With this, there was also an opportunity to make contributions by all the groups in this House to enrich a strategy that looks to 2030. Therefore, Mrs Garrido, Lanbide's transformation is made up of many pieces that I have read out to you, and tell you that we are taking many steps to make Lanbide the central axis of active employment policies in Euskadi and that we have also done so with the help of social and economic actors.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Garrido andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u42	Yes, Mrs Mendia, but what you are telling me now is clear that you have told me; you have told me in private, you have told me in public, and I have not only had the opportunity to hear it, but the rest of the speakers and the rest of the representatives of Basque citizens in this Parliament, but it gives me the feeling that we are not making progress. Look, last year's legislature... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... the rest of the speakers and the rest of the representatives of Basque citizens in this Parliament, but it gives me the feeling that we are not moving forward. Look, the past legislature, the councilwoman who preceded him at the post, pointed out at the beginning of the legislature that the two main objectives of the Department were the Lanbide reform and the reform of the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act. Both commitments were not met in the past legislature. I, of course, trusted that with the change there would be a certain push on these issues, but I see that it has not just arrived. If the diagnosis we share. We have shared it, Mrs. Mendia: in private, in public... but we are still not moving forward. Look, the Basque Employment Strategy 2030 already talks about the diagnosis, and points out the scant development of the portfolio of services to companies within Lanbide. It is also mentioned that the Basque Employment Service is heavily involved in the management of the RGI, and a little (stressed?) for the administrative rigidity in which he is forced to act. A Lanbide that has not obtained structures based on the personalized services of accompaniment to the job insertion and the relationship and services with the enterprises. There is talk of the limited development of the portfolio of services in the companies within Lanbide. There are a number of issues that point out that Lanbide is not functioning properly, and is not fulfilling its mandated objectives. There is talk of the improvement and transformation of Lanbide as a public nuclear instrument of the Basque Employment System. That is, on April 16, 2021, the same diagnosis as in November and that in the last legislature. Moreover, in the resolutions adopted on the debate on the Basque Employment Strategy in the Commission, there is also talk of a profound remodelling of Lanbide. What I am asking you today, Madam Counsellor, is when these objectives are to be achieved: when action is to be taken. We've got a diagnosis, but we've got to get our hands on it. And we are the same – I want to tell you – that when I put this question to you in November.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u43	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. To answer, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u44	Well, one can choose to act, or overact with one point of view a catastrophic dot. It's legitimate, it's an option, but it's really not the reality that we're living. In Euskadi things are going reasonably well: vaccination is going well, unemployment data is going well and the transformation of Lanbide is going well. And this government has a clear road map. And, above all, it has stability and confidence to carry that road map forward. And I told him Lanbide's transformation is going. I have known her for many years in this House, so I am not going to give her any lesson in how you have to control the executive. But I will review the number of issues related to the improvement of Lanbide, the improvement of services and active employment policies. Seven months ago, with his identical question, in January, we agreed at the Lanbide Board of Directors the Lanbide Hobetzen project. The Social Dialogue Bureau, that same month, approved a new programme of retraining and relocation of workers from sectors in crisis, which is a new way of working in Lanbide. In February, I met with you and the rest of the groups to explain Lanbide Hobetzen. That same month, we agreed to modify, initiate the amendment of Lanbide's statutes, to create a Directorate of Benefits and Inclusion, which is a direct change in Lanbide, and also to create the Coordination and Information Unit in Lanbide. In April, we approved the Basque Employment Strategy, which, as you know and have rightly pointed out, was discussed in this House in May. In May, we put the preliminary draft of the New Income Guarantee Income Rent in processing, and, as I have offered, whenever I want to explain it to you. In June, we convened the Employment Forum, and we have already taken the first steps to start the drafting of the Basque Employment System Act, which is also closely linked to the improvement of Lanbide and active employment policies in this country. Therefore, we are focused on the internal reorganization of Lanbide for better functioning. We are invested in its structure, in the improvement of the offices, and in the improvement also of the workers, which in the end are the great added value that Lanbide has. And also, I bring to your attention, although I have already said this on numerous occasions in this House, we are working to ensure that at the end of this year we can have a new virtual office in Lanbide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interrogate, Pazis Garcia Ortega EH Team Member of the Union, made to the Chief Governor of the Public and Autobernus as to the production and stabilization of public employment." Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u46	Good morning, everyone. The high temporary rate of public administration has been waiting too long for solution. I won't give much data today, because the situation isn't new, it's known, and it's so serious that the government itself accepts that the situation of public employment is bad. Therefore, and to speak of the scandalous rates of temporality in the Basque Public Administration, it is not necessary to give much data. The important dimension of the problem is well known. Today, in the VAC, more than 55,000 people, in some administrations almost half of the staff, work for the public administration in a temporary situation, and in most cases in a situation of abuse or fraud. This means that most of these workers, through temporary recruitment, are covering structural and permanent jobs in the public service. While a few weeks ago the Employment Adviser, Idoia Mendia, presented the Basque Employment Strategy 2030, with quality employment as a central axis, it turns out that the Public Service, far from being an example of respect for stability in employment, has become the employer with the highest rates of temporaryity. That is, the Administration, today, an example of what should not be done in the area of employment. And this is happening in the General Administration, in the Education Administration, in Osakidetza, in Lanbide, in Osalan, basic and essential public services are being provided in conditions of instability of the staff, and even many years ago in many cases. Six months ago, in another question on this issue, we asked about the intentions of your Councillor and the Basque Government to get out of this situation... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... Six months ago in another question on this issue, we asked about the intentions of your Councillor and the Basque Government to get out of this situation, because the workers concerned live in uncertainty and have been waiting too long. In this interference, Madam, we asked you if you were planning to solve the problem with the temporary employment case in this legislation, and even if you meant to negotiate with the unions and talk to them. Your answer was that the government had a strong engagement with the process of reducing the high temporary rate of Euscal Administration, that the trial was unstoppable, and you spoke to us with firmness of will and determination. You also told us that you believe in negotiation and conversation, and that this is why you were working on different tables and places of negotiation, and that you were willing to continue working on it. He also told us that the current Corps and Scales Act was a crucial law in order to be able to deal with the approval and implementation of a consolidation process, and that this was precisely why it had been referred as quickly as possible to the House for its early approval. To this end, the project incorporates two additional provisions concerning the consolidation of temporary employment in the Basque public administrations. He also told us that all parliamentary groups would have the opportunity to position themselves with concrete proposals and that they considered that the project had sufficient legal backing for proper processing. Well, to this day none of this that he told us six months ago has been fulfilled, nothing. It must be acknowledged that there have been not a great many reasons for being optimistic at the beginning, since you have brought the same law which had been introduced in the legislature, which was left independent, although the additional regulations which regulate the maintenance of public employment had been the disagreement of most unions in the preceding legislation, and in this too. For the past few months, we've had a chance to listen to all the unions through the openings on the committee. And I think we may say that most of them think that these regulations to stab the public employment are insufficient, and moreover that they do not conform to the criteria of the judicial judgments of Europe. It must be remembered that it is the origin of the problem that for many years no appeal to public employment offer has been made. In some cases, 20 years, 15 years and 10 years in general administration: in particular education, kitchens and washing machines, others. So the responsibility is not the worker's, because the opportunity to stabilize the situation has been denied. And what's the date of our situation? In our opinion, the three principal events must be mentioned. One, in April, the unions convoked the strike in all public administrations with a clear request: Create and stabilize public employment. Two months later, all the unions except one, rose from the negotiation table, because there are no proposals and political wills on the government to solve the situation. Two in a wrong way, the Constitution has been deemed contrary to the Constitution, and one of the two additional regulations which regulate the maintenance of the trial in the laws of the Orders, the second. And so far, we have not heard from the Government what he proposes to it. This sentence shows, once more, the impurability of our self-generacy, because of want of differences, and the lack of equality between political subjects. And three, the parlamentary bands of the Government now require, that the second supplementary regulations should be removed from the law. Instead, without making any further proposal. So what are we supposed to understand? The government refuses the means to stabilize public employment? The workers who wait so long, the government don't propose anything to them? Will the government wait for those who will decide Madrid? We have seen that, as time progressed, instead of explaining the situation, it has become confused, and therefore has need of interpelation. And Mrs. Chief, we ask you the right question: what measures will it take to stabilize public employments, and to create employment according to the exigencies of the euscal society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. To answer, Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u48	Mrs. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning. Mrs. Garcia, I've been passing through this tribe several times to inform you about public employments, and to-day, once more, I'll give you the necessary explanations. This legislature already knows the diagnosis, opinions, and commitments of this chief of department, to reduce the interminity or intermediate rate which lies in the administration, or especially in the general administration. As the subject is so thick and so important, I shall gladly give the necessary examples, and I will inform you of my thoughts, and of my being able to share the objective examinations of reality. Yes, if it is possible, even in the measures to which they must be taken from now on. Administration is a high bond rate. There's no doubt about that. This government does not deny it at all. But it can't even be denied that the essence of the subject of this interpretation is very deep and complicated... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... he absolutely does not deny it. But it cannot be denied that the essence of the subject of this interpretation is very profound and complicated. He's got a lot of strings and can't be summed up in a light headline. I'll go into the substance of the matter in a moment, but first let me give you a second because I'd like to make a distinction in order to clear things up. We're trying to solve problems, or if we're trying to solve problems, things should be called from their own name. Otherwise, there's no way to look for solutions because we'd be cheating on ourselves because it's a trap for a while for all the workers to be interinosed. No. Not all the workers are interninos, but all the internees are temporarily employed. Again, a space of temporary provisionalness is indispensable in the Administration for daily function, because temporary opposition enables us to respond to reasons that are not structural. I am speaking of want of order according to circumstances: There's a lot of... If they don't, they'd have a hard solution. We'll continue with these needs. And so we should agree to a temporary rate of time, we should consume a percentage. That shade I've just said. I want to tell you again, that my team and I, from the beginning of legislation, work hard to find the best way out. It is well known that our priority is to reply to the great rate of mediation that we age the planets, and suffer them to do so. You just mentioned the strike call recently. That's where you put the line. It's too tight. I don't want to underestimate that. But I would rather come to the subject from another point, which, I think, is more constructive from the value of collective negotiations and the participation of social agents connected with the subject. I would like to give you some facts on this subject, to show that the department that I am conducting is without rest trying to find a shared solution. Up to this day we have made the following summons: three general negotiations tables, nine sectorial tables in general administration, and a few other sectorial tables besides. In some ways or other, this subject, which you have asked me today, has been dealt with in all these forums, in part or in some way. It cannot be denied that we are introducing and planning proposals and initiative. Besides, there has been a constant conversation with social agents, at least three rounds of conversation since the end of last year. In some of them this chief physician has also been an active part. And while we were there, what have we met? Whilst the administration has been planning and cultivated the content of negotiation, the motive, industry, and strikes have been called. They're too broad and respectable. But in the measures in which the atmosphere is corrupted, the deeper it is, and the narrow reduction of the temporary, the more especially the process of selection, which causes them not to be able to penetrate. Therefore, Mrs Garcia, the problem is not that there are no proposals on the table to reduce time. I would like to explain to you what measures we are working on. Measures which, let us not forget, we have already put forward in the area of collective bargaining tables. As a first step, I would like to stress the need to convene, in an urgent and exceptional way, a consolidation process in which the experience developed in our convening administration is specifically taken into account, while respecting the existing regulatory framework at all times. This process will recognize, to the extent possible, the experience of people who have been working in our Administration for some time as interim staff. A collective that, as I have always pointed out, provides a fundamental experience and knowledge for the better development of public service activity. This Government has been in the process since the first minute, promoting the immediate processing of the Corpses and Scales Bill, which contains tools and instruments aimed at advancing the consolidation of public employment. I think it is appropriate to emphasize that we have brought concrete measures, as contained in a draft law, to address the problem of high rates of interinity. We cannot be blamed for not being proactive in making proposals, concrete and serious proposals. As you are well aware, this Bill for Bodies and Scales is currently in parliamentary procedure. It took the opportunity to encourage them to reach the broadest possible consensus. Beyond the trade union and parliamentary sphere, I do not want to leave without mentioning another key area in which we are working, I am referring to relations with the State, as regards possible changes and regulatory developments on this issue of interinity. Without going further, yesterday I asked Minister Iceta, first hand, and in the context of the Sectoral Conference of Public Administrations, to give legal coverage to each of the public administrations to design our consolidation processes. This could be possible, with complete legal certainty, by amending the Basic Staff Regulations. This would reduce temporaryity and could specifically recognize the services provided by temporary and temporary staff in public administrations. This situation has been largely caused by external factors directly related to decisions of the State Government, which have undermined the possibility of making public offers of employment. I am referring to the troop replacement rates contained in the successive laws of the State's General Budgets. This practice implies the imposition of staffing management policies which, in purity, should correspond to the autonomous community. This Government has always argued that replenishment rates are clearly contrary to our capacity for self-organization, which is de facto a competitive erosion. In short, we are working, without pause and on all fronts, with the aim of achieving the objective we share: to reduce the rates of temporality. I confess, in all this, that the reduction of the temporary absence of public employment is not only solved by a process of consolidation. It is obvious that we must push more measures. On the line of that, in the kitchen on June 16th, there's a place for you to move... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... It is obvious that we must push more measures. On the other hand, in the course of it, the General Table, which was on the 16th of June, suggested to make a place-change contest, negotiated with the most active societies. This competition would have been after the consolidation process, before any other choice could be made a process. At first, this call would be one and a yearly one. So after you've done that moving contest, you could call for another public offer to fill out the empty jobs in the tournament. From this point on, a calendar can be established with new summonss, employments, and elections, always after a collective negotiation, and according to the legal camp which is in force. At the same time, it is necessary to make a inspection and dimensions of the planets, to determine the physical needs of the administration, to fit the job lists, and to promote the effective and efficient administration which must be in the service of the people. This is, in general, the sum of the measure we hold in hand. As you can see, Mrs. Garcia, we're working on the way to strengthen and create public employment. Our commitment is strong. Our seats at the negotiations table are never empty, never. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u50	Mila esker, sailburu andrea, emandako azalpenengatik. Eta me listening to you would say that there is no problem in assuming what Euskal Herria Bildu believes it would be necessary to assume, which are three basic commitments, which in part seems to share, but I have not just seen this materialized in any proposal. And we're talking about three commitments. The first commitment is to speak freely and negotiate agreements on the process of consolidating temporary and temporary employment in abuse of the law. As a goal, lowering current temporality rates below 8% is the figure that makes us a European. These consolidation processes must also serve in the terms stated by the judicial decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union to compensate for the precarious situation that thousands of public employees have been enduring for long periods of time, which, as I have said before, have been denied the option of consolidating their public employment, and the replacement rates are true that they have not helped ease the problem, but I told you the previous time that we understand that the problem is before. For this reason, we also believe that exceptional solutions must also be given to the exceptional situation, and to do so it is necessary to launch flexible consolidation processes through opposition competitions with practical reviews of the work being carried out and a maximum assessment of the experience of the years of work, or it is also necessary to launch extraordinary merit competitions in response to various situations. The second commitment is to make a diagnosis of new public employment, which must also be created. That is, the temporary public employment, which, due to its maintenance in time and coverage of permanent tasks, should be classified as structural. And we are thinking of thousands of workers in Osakidetza who in the midst of the pandemic are working on permanent needs through the signing of a chain of successive temporary contracts. We are also thinking of public employment which needs to be created as a result of the revision of ratios and workloads, for example in the field of education and health. And we think that this diagnosis should include a generational relief plan that ensures the transfer of accumulated experience and encourage pre-retirement. And a third commitment, to review and renew the current model of recruitment in the public administration to prevent the situation of abuse and fraud in temporary recruitment from repeating itself. And this is Euskal Herria Bildu's proposal to respond to that trade union demand that says "Enplegu publikoa sortu eta egonkortu", and despite his explanations, I have to say that to date we have not dealt with this will to take on those three commitments and the trade unions because they do not seem to have perceived it either. And lastly, and in short, we ask the Basque People of the United States to conduct the current course of the Government. And this supposes, on the one hand, a wager for the strength of the public service, which is founded on social employments, and a match by a collective negotiation. 21st A modern public administration of the century cannot turn back the unions in order to determine the quality of public service, and how to create employment. And, on the other hand, we think that the Government cannot rest, and that, instead of standing still, the Common-wealth ought to demand for a time the extraordinary causes of the Publique employment, and the making of a new employment, to respect the decisions taken in the Autonomity of the community. And if it be so, that the making of necessary reforms of laws, may have the implementations, the necessary guarantees, and the legal security of those decisions. Juridic guarantees are important to us too. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u52	Yeah. Mrs. Garcia, in fact, my intention is to explain what we're dealing with here today. And that's because that's because I think it's only because I think it's necessary to make up the decisions and measures we're making when we're trying to improve the temporary rates. That's what I'm saying, because our intention is very obvious. I mean, we want to improve the stability of public workers, and at the same time, in the quality of public employment... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... That's what I'm saying, because our intention is very obvious. I mean, we want to improve the stability of public workers, and at the same time in the quality of public employment, for the sake of what? .). We shall thus improve our attention to our fellow-citizens, and, moreover, we shall improve the public services of our administration. I'm sure of it. They are not rebots, no, but words provided with actions, which must be taken step by step. First step, confession of reality. We have too high a temporary rate, in a great part, due to the fundamental legislation of the past few years. The second, firm will, for stability, for the quality of public employment, for the improvement of public service. And the third, the actions, according to the legal security, as you say. And in the latter case, I shall stop to sum up the measures proposed once more. It is essential that job planning and structural jobs should be well defined, and we are engaged in doing so. And this is what we're talking about, because it's necessary to start the selection process as soon as possible, considering the experience of the administration as the process of consolidation. I have mentioned the bill of law which has been urged to give this trial a necessary legal security. There's nothing to say that we can't let the problem go longer, we have to deal with it. In general administration, we're working and bargaining for a basic offer of 2021, nine beggars. We hope to call it a job of 1.017 this year, and we don't reject the call to 1230. In this way, if I may be clear that we are at work, I will again stretch out my hand from this tribe: On the one hand, in order that the social authorities who have left the general table should approach negotiations, on the other hand, to accept the legislature, with as much consent as possible, the law of the Kidegos and Scanals, which is decisive not only to reduce the provisional, but also to rationalize and organize the Administration; and lastly, I extend my hand to the Administration of the State, in dealing with our co-workers, to protect the fundamental legislation, and to protect the means of consolidation, and not to destroy the rate of re-action. This government aspires to be part of the solution, Mrs Garcia, not part of the problem. We have advanced serious, detailed, collective bargaining measures aimed at providing real solutions to the issue of the high rate of interinity in the administration. In any case, we understand that it is important to handle data rigorously. In this regard, it is also true that some light should be shed on the figures of temporaryity which are being used by some agents, and which usually include all temporary appointments, as well as temporary employment. I think it's a useful and visual exercise to translate it into numbers. Thus, for example, in the General Administration of Euskadi, compared to the figure of 3,500 temporary staff members, the reality is that the vacancies actually available, covered with temporary staff, are 2,388. It is true that they do not cease to be worrying data, but it is the data, these, and not others. Data, in any case, that show a reality that it is necessary to start reversing, no doubt, but with all the guarantees. In short, and I conclude, we will continue to work on proposals for measures to reduce time in public employment, and more specifically in the development of selective processes, which facilitate and encourage the progressive reduction of time. To this end, I appeal to the path of dialogue and negotiation on which I firmly believe. Our commitment is firm; let us make it possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question of David Soso Rodríguz together of the parliamentary laws of Podemos-IU to the head of the Economics, patience, and environmental department, which are intended to be put into Araban." Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u54	The Alavese society is frankly concerned about the invasion of solar mega-plants and wind power plants projects in the Alavese peoples. There are already enough collectives who ask to paralyse the projects until agreements are reached that consider the impacts on the rural world and the protected spaces. From Elkarrekin Podemos-Ezker Anitza, already on several occasions, we have raised the need for a moratorium in the processing of these projects until there is a plan that allows us to regulate this situation. We have been able to insist on this, but we believe that in view of the circumstances and rules, neither plans nor exclusion zones for projects, nor public participation in decision-making, there is no justification for addressing this issue without everything. How does it justify, Madam Counsellor, the installation of these solar and wind mega-plants, as they are intended to do, and in the places where they are intended to be placed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u55	Thank you, Mr. Soto. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u56	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Soto, well, there is no doubt that, because of the terminology and the way in which this question has been expressed, we will probably not agree on the same record. But I have no doubt that both you and I, your group and ours, are concerned about the matter, and we consider it relevant and urgent at the same time. In Euskadi we have a high energy consumption, both in what is home, but above all in what is the engine of our economy: industry. In order to do this, we need to accelerate the generation of renewable energy, clean energy, in order, on the one hand, to comply with the laws that have already been passed, and above all to reduce CO2 emissions, of greenhouse gases and, of course, to contribute to this fight against climate change. And for that, we need to get to work. At the moment, the wind energy PTS is fully in force. And we are developing the renewable energy PTS, which will allow you to make a relevant qualitative leap in terms of energy use and its most appropriate location. In this renewable energy PTS, there will be an explicit analysis of where wind, photovoltaic, and other types of renewable energy locations can be carried out. But, of course, what we cannot afford is for the new approval of that plan to be a hindrance to the development of renewable energies... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... and other types of renewable energy. But, of course, what we cannot afford is for the re-approval of that plan to be a hindrance to the development of renewable energies, if we are to fulfil, of course, the commitments made in those laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u58	Thank you very much for the explanations, Counsellor. Undoubtedly, the justification for installing these megaplants is shared. But the question here is how and also where. As you well know, since 14 May this year we have had the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act at the state level. We're waiting for the autonomics. But, in any case, in this law, which is currently in force, article 21 states that a map should be drawn up, indicating exclusion zones and, above all, for projects of this kind which have a significant impact on the environment and biodiversity. In this connection, we would like to know whether, pursuant to that article, protected areas will be defined in these areas as exclusion zones. And then, on the other hand, in the same law, also in article 39 it is true that it obliges the State, but it also recommends to the autonomous communities to encourage autonomous citizen assemblies, which is what it refers to when it says autonomous citizen assemblies. And, in this sense, if also in relation to this type of facility, there is the claim to generate dynamics of public participation, either through citizen assemblies, as set out in state law, or, if necessary, through some alternative that the Basque Government proposes in this sense, because we believe that public participation is fundamental when they intend to carry out projects of this kind. Yesterday, from our parliamentary group, we recorded 67 amendments to the Act on the Conservation of the Natural Heritage of Euskadi. And, among them, we propose two, one of them, to ban these energy installations, but also others, in protected natural spaces, because we consider them to be exclusion zones. I guess that won't share it. We believe they are de facto exclusion zones. It is true that there should be exceptions in relation to agro-farming or facilities of public interest. But as far as these are concerned, in particular, we believe that this should not be the place. And it shouldn't be the place, because there are alternatives. We believe that, today, there are hundreds of hectares on roofs of public and private buildings, industrial polygons, parking lots where these kinds of instruments could be installed. And, in addition, comparatively, talking to other cities or countries around us, this is already a common practice. There are, in fact, studies already in Vitoria and also in Pamplona, which indicate that 85% of energy demand could be covered by these instruments. We do not understand why the Basque Government is making this effort to install mega-plants in protected areas. And, on the other hand, we have also incorporated an amendment in relation to citizens' assemblies in Euskadi or, where appropriate, other channels of citizen participation, when determining the installation of such infrastructures. We would like, in that sense, as I say to you, to share these horizons and to join in relation to the processing of this law, with the aim of making the energy transition not in protected areas, but in places where...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u59	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u60	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Soto, as you said, at this time we are working on the drafting of the Energy Transition and Climate Change Act here in Euskadi, which, together with the PTS for renewable energy, is also following a development with citizen participation. Secondly, let me say that each of these protected areas has its own management plan, which corresponds to the outlaws, where it is decided exactly what can be done and what cannot be done, what are the authorisations and what are the activities. They are therefore not exclusion zones per se, but respond to these management plans. In any case, they are not megaplants in Euskadi. Unfortunately, we do not have such quantities of surface of any kind so that we can establish megaplants. They are plants, of course, at most, of a medium nature, perfectly associated with the territory. In any case, the development of these projects does not involve the protection of the territory, nor does it involve any action that is outside environmental, urban or territorial controls. Any one of them is going to meet all those goals. In addition, it will be taken into account that natural values are preserved in each of the places where they are to be established, and note that, as you well know, any such location needs authorization, in addition to environmental, urban authorization and the corresponding municipal authorization. Therefore, in no case are we going to put in place any action that would run counter to any of the above rules. I insist, however, that we need projects of all kinds. As you pointed out, roofs on many occasions, both from homes and from technological parks or industrial areas, can be used, as long as the buildings support it, which is very relevant. And that's going to mean the performance and the improvement in the generation. But, however, they are not enough. We need small projects, projects like Ekiola, where, in addition, citizen cooperatives participate directly, but larger projects, since our industry also requires a generation that, at this time, we are not able to offer. Large projects and small projects located in the corresponding places, with all authorizations and guarantees. But the absence of a renewable energy PTS cannot paralyze our performance.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The tenth point in the subject list: "The question is, that Carmulus Barroja, the member of the Basque Popular-Cyans, made to the Chief Department of Economy and Environmental development, the last phase of writing NPB's Stratal Plan. " Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u62	Yeah. Thank you, President. Good morning. Counselor, counselors. Good. A little more than a month ago, on May 14, I was performing the councilwoman. Then there was the debate on a motion. There will be no more control of the Executive until the end of September, presumably. And we are in a very important month in connection with the negotiation of the common agricultural policy and the position of Spain, and in this case also of the position of Euskadi. July will be an important month for the purposes of the preparation of the new CAP. Supposedly, he has to be. The meeting of the Council of Ministers of Agriculture on 28 and 29 June, the meetings of the so-called Special Committee on Agriculture... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ...it has to be, the meeting of the Council of Ministers of Agriculture on 28 and 29 June, the meeting is, well, the so-called Special Committee on Agriculture also, for European purposes, the preparation of the Strategic Plan of Spain and the outstanding work of this Sectoral Conference of Agriculture and Rural Environment planned for these dates or for these days. And all this will then mark different key moments in the negotiation of the common agricultural policy. The minister has also said this week in Congress that he is in contact with the autonomous communities and, of course, in view of this situation, and seeing that June is a very important month, presumably July will also be to all these European state effects, and you as head of Agriculture of the Basque Government, we want to know at what time the negotiation of the autonomous communities with the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, in relation to the Strategic Plan, the New CAP. There is a lot of uncertainty, there is a lot of concern in the agricultural sector, in the livestock sector, about the consequences of all this, and you have to tell us something about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u63	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u64	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Barrio, I am sorry to make nothing very new about the last time you and I discussed this in this House. Bilateral meetings are taking place on different days. We had one in Madrid on April 15; when Minister Plana approached Euskadi on the 22nd we were also able to hold a meeting; on the 12th of May the Deputy Councillor met with the Secretary of State, the Secretary General, sorry, with Don Fernando Miranda, to deal also a little where our requests were, how we could go to prepare this strategic plan, what were the most important keys, but all the issues associated with the second pillar still have great uncertainty, as you said. The hope at that time was that a sectoral conference could be held there on 11 June with all the decisions taken, for which the Ministry would provide us with a document to establish our requirements and our improvements. However, since there was no agreement in the trialogue, there was no agreement in the European Commission, it has been delayed to be able to conclude it in July. As you said, 24 and 25 meetings are being held right now to unlock these trilogues. Next week, 28 and 29 will also be meetings of what is the Council of Ministers, and we hope that it will be finally unblocked there, as the Minister transmitted to us last Monday, that there is already an agreement that will allow us there to analyse it from the point of view of the State, the State with the autonomous communities, and each setting its priorities we can go to that definitive sectoral conference during the month of July we hope that the first fortnight, of course the second fortnight at most. But that's all I can tell you right now, since we're still not sure what's going to be approved these days. The Minister trusts that this agreement will exist and from there we must continue to work.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Barrio.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u66	Yeah. Thank you, President. Yes, thank you, counselor, but Minister Plana has gone a little further, at least he said he has informed the Autonomous Communities, the other day he said, and is hanging on the page of the Ministry that chaired the Advisory Council on Agricultural Policy for Community Affairs by videoconference. In other words, to inform the directors of the branch of what will be held 28, 29, I suppose that the position that the minister will take to that meeting on 28 and 29 July will have to be informed, and you will have to give them the place or the discrepancy or the abstention in relation to something that must already be materializable within a few days, next week, in Luxembourg. With regard to this very important issue and that sense gave a sense, with the common agricultural policy and with the CAP negotiations, it goes through these negotiations as with the recovery funds, which are not known at all, that there is a lack of information, that I do not know whether there is a pact also not to give that information or because it does not go out to the media on any issue, but that is the fundamental element, because there the sector is permanently concerned, we have seen the mobilizations, we have seen the concern, we have seen the references and statements of the highest responsible of all the agricultural and livestock organisations. And, in that sense, that's what's going on, which seemed like the deadlines are also getting longer. And I say again, we have a very important moment because we are in front of a hidden strategic plan, that is, nobody knows anything or you don't tell us anything if you know anything about it, and whether you have the agreement or not, or have of course taken the measures that you have proposed to you. There is a threat of a cut of EUR 5 billion in the CAP, which is going to affect, because there are also more demands on what the new common agricultural policy is going to have and it gives the impression that nobody knows anything. There will be a reduction in funds and yet there will be more crops, there will be more hectares and there will be more measures to implement, and some keys will have to be given by the Ministry, and they will have been given.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u67	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Your word is Mrs. Tapiam.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u68	Mr Barrio, I would not like to repeat myself because the previous time, in the interpellation, I told you exactly what Euskadi's demands were, where we were and continue in the uncertainties that we had. The Ministry obviously has to agree with all the autonomous communities on what the single strategic plan is. However, in each of the communities we will have a small flexibility, as far as the minister transmits to us, but essential aspects such as redistributive payment, issue of eco-schemes, how many regions we will have at this time, of the many regions we have now, how far it will be reduced, how it will be distributed is still undefined, and it is still undefined, the minister knows the proposal of each of the autonomous communities, we have discussed it on many occasions, in general, and in bilateral commissions, and with this the minister will try to reach an agreement, I understand, in Europe and from there we will have to come down to the agreement. That's why I can't tell you anything else. It's just that uncertainty still exists around that. However, it is true that the communities of the cantabrian cornice, for example, have joined forces in trying to bring to the minister a series of demands or requests, let's say, we are not going to raise it to the level of demand, which allows us to have a slightly different treatment from what agriculture can be, let's put, in Extremadura or in Andalusia, because our regions are different. We think we're making it easier and we're contributing... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...have a slightly different treatment from what agriculture can be, let's put, in Extremadura or Andalusia, because our regions are different. We believe that we are facilitating and contributing, and from that point of view we have also held various meetings all, the four communities of the cornice, in order, of course, to also facilitate that work to the ministry and to be able to take a common position on what we have to do. From there, I insist, 28, 29 is next week and we trust that the month of July will be of intense work so that we can definitely have the general lines that can be sent later in the strategic plan from the Spanish State to Europe and allow us to have a definitive document by the end of the year. Therefore, we still have six months of intensive work within the communities and with our sectors.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "Interregative, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, a member of the Basque Groups of Popular-Ciudadans, made to the chief department of Economics and Ogas, the Finning Euskal Institute." Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u70	Thank you very much, Madam President. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Azpiazu, Mr Pedro María. We're one more Friday that we could almost headline "Friday's Economy." In this last full of control, I wanted to ask you a question to clarify me, to clarify to us all here in Parliament, in Parliament, a number of questions relating to the Basque Institute of Finance, as you have already read, and your team certainly, in the question we recorded on Monday. The Basque Institute of Finance, as is known, is a public body governed by private law that is attached to the Department of Economics, in this case, to its own, and that its founding purpose is to act as a financial policy instrument and public credit of Euskadi with a number of characteristics and limitations. When it was created, if the memory did not fail me, more or less in 2007, it was another political time also in Euskadi, remained there more or less, I don't know if sleepy, but in the end, the Basque Institute of Finance was in the background, and, from time to time, by some parliamentary initiative also, because the idea of having a public bank has been recovered, depends on the parliamentary group that defended it at every moment, etc. But it is true that it has been with, let's say, an activity rather, not to say non-existent, but well, very limited, very limited, very moderate. And that we have also not perceived what can then contribute to having or not having an institution of these characteristics, but good. The Basque Institute of Finance, recently, we have understood, we have read in the media, for man, we have seen what its functions are, and well, before it glosses us, article four of the statutes where its functions are detailed that we have no longer read them, because it is fine. But what we have read recently is that the Basque Government has passed a decree, allowing the Basque Institute of Finance to believe, to take the stake of 100 % of another company, Finkatuz, that in which a capital, 160 million, with a view, it seems, to extend it up to maybe 300 million – this perhaps you can explain to us. And with the aim of acquiring, disposing of and managing long-term financial participations in large enterprises in the Basque Autonomous Community, in order to ensure that they are rooted in Basque and that they have a tractor character over the whole Basque productive fabric. Well, to me, as a declaration of intentions, for man, it may seem good or bad or neutral to me, but I do have a series of doubts, which is why I would like it in this full of control, quieter, now that no one hears us, Don Pedro María, because perhaps I could clarify some of the issues. The first one. Why do we have to have a Basque Institute of Finance? What's in it for us? What would happen to us if we didn't have it? Could the Government fulfil its functions if we did not have it, if we saved ourselves that expenditure? I'm telling you about the real question, which is, why a new company is set up. That is, if we already have the Basque Institute of Finance, which in turn depends on your department, why set up another company, why set up an additional company. Why not manage that fund, as it seemed to be done initially, directly from the department. What is the reason why this flight from administrative law is again taking place, which is often referred to as the classics, that is, why an anonymous society is created to manage this fund. The Basque Institute itself cannot do this. The department itself can't do it. The second question that arises is the question of rooting. The root, in terms of what do we measure it? Do we measure it in terms of strategic decision-making? Do we measure it in terms of local employment? Or do we measure it in terms of real and effective taxation? That's the subject of a little rooting. And then I'll develop it a little bit more. The third point I am concerned about is what we intend and what the government intends to do in the end with this type of participation. Man, no, Mr. Gordillo, keep companies that might be in a financial situation, etc., delicate and so on, right? Yes, but the way to participate, let's say, or to enter these companies will be through a takeover of capital, loans, etc., subscriptions... We've seen a little bit of what appears in the legislation, but with the appointment of advisors, that is, with the taking of... a character there in the decision-making centers? Is there going to be an entrance plan? Is there going to be an exit plan? How much is it going to evaluate? And above all, what worries me most, what criteria, what criteria we will use, what criteria the Government will use in this case, to determine when it enters, when it leaves, which companies are considered strategic, which company is not considered strategic, and how the decision is made to enter, not to enter. And above all, because entering can be a relatively simple decision in political terms in a crisis situation and in the short term, because the political pressure that any government can have is, logically, to save in the short term the local jobs that may depend on these companies. Because, of course, this then has a long-term problem that you and I know, Mr Azpiazu, which is the issue of what happens to these companies also in the long term, if they are not made competitive also in the long term. That's why I'm afraid of this kind of performance, which, I insist, may have been thought of since... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... they are also competitive in the long term. Therefore, the fear that I have with this type of action, which, I insist, can be thought of from a good intention, is that the short-term, which may be helping or supporting or lending short-term financial muscle to a company, can become something recurrent and above all something structural. That is the fear, the fear that I have is that we end up creating a Basque SEPI, that is the fear that I have, that we end up creating a Basque SEPI, that we end up creating a participation society that does not move with economic criteria, that moves with criteria that are clearly political, that is an option, that in addition there are parliamentary groups that defend it, let's go, without cutting in the arguments. But of course, I would place more emphasis here on other issues. I would stress above all the reasons why there are companies that unfortunately go wrong, what are the real problems of competitiveness, and above all, I would invest money in improving competitiveness, helping companies to be more competitive, to internationalize them, and above all, to make the environment more competitive. That, in my opinion, is the key that I think you can share with me. I see several problems here. Now I hope that in your reply something will clarify me, but I see problems in this kind of performance. I'm afraid, I'm worried, so I'm asking you to clarify. First of all, I see a clear competition problem, I say competition law, now that it is so fashionable, because, as you well know, when you take part by a public entity, or it gives me the same, in this case a 100% public capital company, which would be a means of its own, when you take part in a private company, here logically problems arise, State aid, etc., that the European Commission itself, the national authorities, and in its case, could in some other way also intervene the autonomous ones, because this has to be looked at with a magnifying glass, and above all the European Commission, that this, as you know, by removing the so-called de minimis aid, you know that the European Commission is looking at it with a magnifying glass, any kind of State aid. It is a problem that we have legal problems and that we tackle our own legal certainty and end up getting more expensive the possible remedy than the real solution, which would perhaps have been another. And then, second, I said competition issues. Secondly, competitiveness problems too. I insist, I'm worried that we'll end up turning into structural something that has to be short-term. That is why I would like to clarify whether there is a plan by which, or the decision by which the Government decides to take or provide some kind of financial aid from this fund of a company, just as there is an entry plan, an exit plan and how that exit plan of the company is to be structured. Competition, competitiveness, and third, control. I also see a problem of control, I see a problem of strict political control, of parliamentary control, because it is no longer the department that manages the fund, which certainly comes in the General Budgets of the Autonomous Community, it is no longer the Basque Institute of Finance that manages the fund, since it is a company. We wanted to make two leaps and we are already in a third entity, and I imagine, because with this in the end what we are going to do, Mr Azpiazu, is to parliamentaryize a series of decisions that have to be, in my opinion, commercial, private, based on criteria and economic facts, but that in the end we will have no choice but to bring them here to Parliament. For all this, Mr Azpiazu, today I ask you this question, which synthetically would be the purposes of the Government, and specifically of your department, in relation to the present and future actions of the Basque Institute of Finance and its position in the institutional and economic framework of the Basque Country. I look forward to all your answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u71	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. In reply, Mr. Subaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u72	President Andrea, Sailburuok, legebiltzarkideok, Gordillo jauna, I want to reassure you, I will reassure you. The Government will comply with the law, Mr Gordillo, do not worry about the issues of competence and legality that the Government will comply with. From the very justification of his inquiry and from the presentation of the content he has just made, the position of the (?)EVF in the Basque institutional framework. Indeed, as you well describe, the Basque Institute of Finance is created as a public body under private law attached to the department responsible for finance by the seventh provision of Law 15/2007 of 28 December approving the general budgets of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi for the financial year 2008 in order to act as an instrument of the financial and public credit policy of the Administration of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi. Nothing, therefore, to add to that position either in relation to its nature or in relation to its subscription. That is why, and given the purposes that justified their creation, I do not think that we should abound in their competences and functions because they are equally well known. I have already told you that there is no intention on the part of the department throughout this legislature to urge the Government to make any changes to the nature and subscription mentioned above. There will be another question, as we shall see hereafter the functional list to be considered in the future. Before that he'll make a short review of the activity he's had since 2013, because he gives some traces of what's changed in the institute and explains the circumstances of the other development. During the first years of existence the activity of the Basque Institute was not very intense, as you have pointed out, beyond the takeovers in the capital of Ekarpen society and its participation in the Programme for the realization of scientific technological investments in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. It is from the year 2013 and with the appointment of its first Director General when the activity of the institution was significantly increased, basically that of a credit nature in relation to the financing of the public policies of that legislature, and more specifically, with the launch in 2014 of different lines of financial action to small and medium-sized enterprises, individual entrepreneurs and autonomous professionals within the framework of the programme of financial support for exports for small and medium-sized enterprises, in line with the plan of internationalization of enterprises to technological centres and centres of cooperative research, to small and medium-sized enterprises and medium-sized enterprises and to enterprises in the agricultural, forestry, fisheries, food and rural development sectors... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... small and medium-sized enterprises and medium-sized enterprises and enterprises in the agricultural, forestry, fisheries, food and rural development sectors. The one known as the Sendotu Program. In the same way, Euscal Institute Finantz obtained the finance funding of European Investural Bank, which led the loans from this institution to a financial program for small Esscal companies and midages. During this legislature, in addition to maintaining existing ones, the Basque Institute of Finance launched new funding lines. In particular, circulation lines in the agents of the Basque Network of Technology, Science and Innovation, the programme of support for companies that may be affected by Brexit, the Aurrera programme of support for entrepreneurs and new companies, and the Nekafin programme of support for agri-food enterprises. This eleventh parliamentary term is when a profound reflection begins to proceed with the rationalization of the financial instruments available to the Basque Government for its public intervention. From this reflection, from the documentation drawn up to help in it, as well as from some milestones carried out in its completion, this Parliament has already fulfilled information through the appropriate initiatives, which, I suppose, you are well aware of, and in which it is not appropriate to deepen at this time. It is precisely within the framework of the rationalization of public financial instruments that the Governing Council authorized, at the end of the year 18, the incorporation into the business heritage of the Basque Institute of Finance the participation that the Administration of the Autonomous Community possessed in different societies, such as Ekarpen, Elkargi, Luzaro and Socade. A new management of the Basque Government's financial policy is being carried out with a view to rationalizing financial instruments and promoting the development of strategic industrial projects. Within this framework, the Basque Institute of Finance has a triple mission: to hold the government's financial participations in the various funds and companies, to manage the financial instruments linked to government policies, loans, advances, and to conclude its credit activity in operations between 2 and 5 million euros following strategies of co-investment with financial institutions. One of the other remarkable propositions of this concentration of financial policy was the planning of new capital finances. This proposition, as this legislature knows, rests on two direct enterprises belonging to the Basque Institute of Finantz. On the one hand, with the creation of a new venture capital institution in order to invest in companies in need of expansion and transformation through innovation and internationalisation. A vehicle resulting from public-private collaboration. To this end, in December 2009, the Government authorised the Basque Institute of Finance to participate with EUR 12 million in the new public-private fund ABE PRIVATE EQUITY FUND, the main objective of which is to take part in temporary participations in the capital of small and medium-sized enterprises with great potential for growth, international projection and based on a strong and sustainable competitive advantage in innovative activities which, in turn, have the capacity to drag on the industrial fabric of the environment. And, on the other hand, by the additional twelfth provision of Law 13/2019 of 27 December, approving the general budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community for the financial year 2020, the Strategic Fund for Finkatuz Financial Participation is created, as you have explained, as a differentiated allocation in the budgets of the Basque Institute of Finance for the long-term financial participation... in the long-term, pardon, in large enterprises of the Basque Autonomous Community, to ensure that these enterprises maintain their roots and exercise their tractor character over the whole Basque productive fabric. I am interested, as it also seems to be of interest to you, Mr Gordillo, in this matter. As provided for in that provision, the instrumentation of participations from the Finkatuz Fund may be carried out directly by the Basque Institute of Finance or indirectly through a public limited-liability and holding company of that entity whose objective will be the acquisition, disposal and management of such financial participations. This is an instrument that has been generated in this way by an operational and operational theme. To this end, by Decree 124/2021 of 13 April, the Basque Institute of Finance was authorized to create the public company Finkatze Kapitala Finkatuz, Sociedad Anónima, with a founding social capital of 160 million euros. And in the context of the start-up of the new public company Finkatze Kapitala Finkatuz, Société Anónima, could be likely to join the new company, once it has formally constituted, therefore, both the acquisition of 1.24% of the capital of CAF, 15 million euros, as you also know; and the acquisition of 7.31% of Kaiku Food Corporation by 6.6 million euros. These acquisitions would therefore have been the first steps by the Basque Government in the development of a financial policy to contribute to the growth and rooting of enterprises in the Basque Country. To conclude this first part of me, I would remind myself, in this legislation, that, as the program of government foresees, within the scope of the responsible management of public resources, our programtic commitment is as follows: continuing to use the financial and prosecuting policy for work's economic recovery, the growth of business, and the cohesion of society. How are we gonna do it? For through the evolution to be given to the action of the IVF in the advanced line, channelling and implementing public policies that use financial instruments in the form of loans, guarantees, credit lines and participating in the capital of the companies they consider to seek their root in Basquedi. These are, therefore, the purposes of the Basque Government in relation to the present and future actions of the Basque Institute of Finance and its position in the institutional and economic framework of Euskadi. I will try to complete the information in the second part of my speech, Mr Gordillo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u73	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours. [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u74	Thank you very much, President. And thank you, Mr. Azpiazu. What you said was interesting, but we already knew it. It is common, in general, that we have rationalized parliamentaryism, that in the first intervention of the Government gives nothing new, I thank you for the summary you have given us, it has been very interesting and revealing and helps us to review it, but it has not answered, I believe, for the purposes in which I have reworded them in the form of questions, but let us go. That is, the question is – and the government's purpose is or what I ask the government to clarify – is: why is a new company created?, that is, why is it not done directly from the Basque Institute of Finance? That's the question. At one point in your speech you said, "no, it was an instrumental matter." But what instrumental question? Why isn't it done directly from the Basque Institute of Finance? Secondly, I think it is clear that the competitiveness of companies should be promoted, that at a certain point, which companies can be viable and help them to become competitive again, but why should participation be made in companies? Why not help them with guarantees, with loans? Why? It has also slipped another thing and is that it seems that the interventions of the Basque Institute of Finance will be in agreement with some bank, I do not know if you have already spoken with any bank that you have any special connection, but I also believe that the banks have to have their risk analysis system. That is, from what he has said, the truth is that he ends up confirming my main fear and that this ends up becoming a Basque SEPI in which we have a society of industrial participations there, which is stuck in companies in which at a certain time they have not been helped as they should have been helped, which was helping them to become competitive again, helping them to internationalize and above all creating and really fostering a competitive environment for them to develop. The plans for entry and exit, the companies that you mentioned to me, man, are participations, perhaps, a little smaller, especially in CAF and such, but of course, to me what interests me is, my question is why a government, which is regulator of the economy – because governments, to a lesser extent the autonomic, but they are also regulators of the economy – but because it is regulator also has to become again an economic agent as such. A player and an arbitrator why do they have to do that? That is what I do not understand, and that is what the European Union has tried to insist on, from the outset, that the Member States should stop doing this, that they should stop doing this sort of thing and that it had practically been achieved, but it is that we are still experiencing the consequences of the latest process of industrial conversion in many ways. That's why I'm worried that we start again with the same story, that is, I don't understand. Man, maybe it's true what they've been saying, that it's finally these Social Democrats, they're Christian Democrats or Social Democrats, and they're looking for a far more direct economic intervention as economic agents. But it is not that this is not the trend, it is that this can actually create problems with the European authorities. Because it is not possible to establish such stories, indirect State aid and so on. I therefore, perhaps in the second round, yours, which is always much more interesting, can clarify these issues. Please, why start a new company? Does the Basque Institute have eight workers, eight or nine workers, and a high office cannot do so? Why do we create an instrumental company? What do we really mean by rooting? What kind of participations does the Government intend to adopt? It seems that yes, there is going to be a takeover, but has the Government considered making other interventions, especially by giving liquidity at a given time or contributing with training plans, etc., or by helping to open up international channels to these companies to internationalize them and perhaps make them stronger in the face of possible countercyclical situations in our community and in Spain? And, most importantly, what criteria does the Government intend to use to intervene in some companies, yes and no? If you're going to tell me that strategic, man, I was going to say that not strategic but that they help as such tractor policies, but give me a little more concrete if you can, Mr Azpiazu, don Pedro María, what the government is going to understand as a strategic enterprise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u75	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u76	Mr. Gordillo, you speak of a company as if we were going to create a multinational here. This company is not going to have workers, it is an ad hoc legal instrument for the Basque Institute of Finance to operate properly as we think, 100 of the IVF. Do not worry about European issues, which we will comply with European legislation and will be respectful of the actions of the IVF and this company, will be respectful of the clearly European framework. There are two issues that have remained at the core when it comes to making the historic journey of the IVF and its prospects for the future, of which I would like to deepen. I think it will clarify quite a few issues. Never? I have spoken in an indicative way in Parliament, because, in some ways, they have been brought to the attention of the committee which you chair at the hearings before the Committee on Economic and Financial Affairs and Budgets on 21 October and 21 December, respectively, on the occasion of the presentation of the broad lines of action in the Tenth Legislature of the department which I am chairing and of the presentation of the general budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community for the year 2021. With the first of them I intend to satisfy their concern about the role played by the company Finkatze Kapitala Finkatuz in the coming times and the course by which the capital acquisitions in which it participates for the Basque business root and the contribution of the public to it will be moved. The relationship between society and VF itself must also be mentioned, and as I have already mentioned. In this regard, I can assure you that when the process of incorporation and registration in the company's trade register recently authorized by the Governing Council, which is about to be concluded, after the revision and adaptation to the legality of the proposed company statutes, the content of these will be known and it will be possible to assess that the criteria for investment and disinvestment, as well as the guidelines for participation in the social bodies and for the adoption of agreements in the participating companies, are clearly laid down. Wait a minute in that direction, Mr. Gordillo. These... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... guidelines for participation in social bodies and for the adoption of agreements in the participating societies. Wait a minute, in that sense, Mr. Gordillo. These are among the guiding principles, criteria and guidelines for action in the management of the underlying financial participations, which have been adopted on the basis of the principles of transparency and good governance, as well as the applicable European rules on State aid. They will also be available on the website and on the Transparency Portal of the Basque Institute of Finance, as provided for in the additional twelfth provision of Law 13/2019 of 27 December, approving the General Budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community for the financial year 2020, when the constitution of the company is registered and the registrar approves the statutes and their contents. Finally, as this additional provision also provides, the Basque Institute of Finance will report to the Basque Parliament's Committee on Finance and Budgets on the operations carried out from the appropriations of this fund within three months of their occurrence, and will also publish an annual report on the management of this fund. Laburbilduz, it wasbateko guardantasuna, a sosietate horren jarduerari dagokionez. I end with the second of the questions, which was not dealt with in my first speech but which is also known. And it is the intention already embodied in the legislative calendar of the Basque Government for the present legislature to address a specific bill, the complete treatment, without changing the nature and subscription of the Basque Institute of Finance, of the new purposes, new functions and new procedures of public intervention through the financial instruments available to this government, making evolve, as I have previously pointed out, the current Basque Institute of Finance to at least become a Basque public credit institute for the financing of the sectoral policies of the Basque Government. Today is what, increasingly, with more personality, it is. We shall be able to discuss the details of the bill of law which will be transmitted, for this legislature has directed the functionary purpose of the Institute and the role of the Euscal financial networks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u77	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The 12th point in the theme list: "To question, the parliamentary members of the River Iriarte EH assembled to the head of the Board of Education, concerning the influence which the application of the LOOMOE law will have in the state of the technical teachers of the professions." Mr. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u78	Good morning, Chief of Parliament. "Comrades, chiefs of the divisions, Chief of the Chaldeans, [good] day to us. Well, I think we who were at the Board of Education heard our concern about the technical workers, and the laws recently accepted, § 11. in fine, the word "extinención" is used for this collective, the word "determination." We know there's been a chance of 10 solutions from 26 specials, but 16's still hanging. And for that reason, the question we ask you is posterior. The Board of Education, the technical professors' business, will give a solution to their future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u79	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u80	Bai, President Andrea. Mr. Irriart, to answer your question, I'd like to explain that the future of the professional professors is guaranteed to the public of the career, and that the change suggested by the OLOMOE on the 15th of June, which has passed on the Council of the Ministers, was the project of the New Education. Thus, in accordance with the additional regulations of the OLOMOE at the present day, the professors who perform demands of headlines may be able to enter into the same part of the professors of the Second Education, by the procedure determined, and the assignment of the discipline which is acknowledged in the established regulation. Besides, I'll tell you in a word, because they're not responsible for social conditions required by the professional professors of business, if they're not allowed to enter into the community of professors of the Second Education, they'll belong to the technical professors of the professions. These professors, the assignment of expertise and of the established regulations, will be maintained. The question therefore is confined to professors who give temporary services in their temporary character, and with this collective and union representative, the Board of Education has a firm commitment to evacuating a possible solution in the circle of 276/7 Kings Decret.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u81	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. I'll see you soon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u82	Leader of the Union, you're right. Those who have a career official are not in danger of the future, but all those who have been working for years and years. And there's a lot of them, over 200. On Monday, we listened to them anxiously, and listened anxiously to their statements on the committee itself. Beautiful words, however they may be reassured, time, years have passed, and because they have not yet an outlet in their hands. And so do I, too, understand their anxiety, because, after all, patience has a limit. Like I said, the Board of Education told them to calm down. And while they're telling them to be quiet, time goes on and there's no way out. And, as has been said, the law of LOMMOE, in its 11th regulation, uses the word "extinención." It's 16 specials, over 200 of his staff. And this isn't a working conflict. Here, this situation attacks the quality of the profession. We don't think we can have the future of these people because, as far as they're concerned, they can't fire or shut the door, because, after all, the education of profession would lose them. These people have been years and years, their commitment is known, their work experience, all their knowledge we can't lose. These people have been keeping management in groups for years, working in technique, other projects, we can't afford to lose, the education of profession can't lose, all that kind of knowledge cannot be thrown into the trash. And, as I have said, all those things that are at once, in 2007, were first decided by the Decret of the Spanish Government... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... you can't throw all that away." And, as I have said, all those things which are once present in 2007 had first been decided by the decree of the Spanish Government. These magazines until 2014 continued to collect these jobs by these workers. We think there's a commitment to the Board of Education and we need to give him a solution. You said you had your engagement to give me a solution. But what we would like to hear from your mouth today is to point out that these workers are going to continue working in Hezics. After all, because it seems to us that years and years are worth an answer. Time passes. LOMLOE decides a harsh word like 'extinecion'. Now the new law of the Educational Office will also be derived from the Congress of Spain, or will be solved. And he frightens us, he frightens us because the door closes, because time passes, and no one has yet given him a real solution. They say that though they tell them to remain calm, they have nothing written, there is no commitment. And we'd like to hear from your mouth today that all these professional workers will continue working, because that's what it is. And it is with anxiety that we see the OLOMOE, who shuts himself up in the breaking of time, says so in the 11th regulation, and the new law of the Helic Office is derived. So it's time for us to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u83	Thank you, Mr. Iriart. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u84	Mr. Irriart, as you know, is a stately concept of reference. And autonomy influences all the communities. It's not just a Basque. From that point on, my division and I are negotiating with the Minister of Education and Education, in order to make changes which ought to be made to return to the first possible use of this collective law of professors. I'd like to show that three meetings were made with certain organizations of Hezik's technical instructors. These meetings were communicated to them every moment of this negotiation. We have always defended it, and we will continue to defend the importance of this collective profession in Education. It's been a long and complicated negotiation. And I will tell you by the way, with regard to the groups of autonomy and Parliament, that we alone carry this negotiation. But we made the commitment to the Minister and his Ministry. This agreement has given rise to the future law of the State's profession of Education to make a member of the special specialists, and therefore a new member. These specialities are established in Decree 276/2007, but the state of ungoverned university teachers teaching in the 19 specials still mentioned must be solved. Because of this situation, I'm trying to tell you: we are examining every speciality, and working to find a possible solution within our reach, and within the regulations now established. The subject, as you know, is complex, which requires a great and complicated work, considering the scope of rule and jurisdiction. But we have a strong commitment to that collective. We've made a lot of progress. And I hope soon that an option is articulated, and that we can send it to the underlying collective and union representatives. Like you said, it's been since 2007. It wasn't easy and it's not easy to get back in a few months, but we'll find it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u85	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "The question is, "Unai Fernandez de Betoño De Lacuesta, the lawmakers of the EH Collectors to the planetion, Housing, and the chairman of the Transportal Department, the new unseasonable solution of Euscal's Bilbo and Gastian tickets." Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u86	Yeah. Chief Arriola, you made Euskal Yena Land Plan sectorial 20 years ago. And you started working for almost 15 years ago. Why now suddenly suggest a world-driving solution for Bilbo and Gastine stations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u87	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Fernandez de Betoño, there is no decision that access to Bilbao and Vitoria Gasteiz de la Y Basque need an interim solution not buried. The burial of the High Speed Train in Vitoria and Bilbao has not been questioned at any time, and all the institutions involved work to make it a reality. What has happened is a reflection, for my part, on the opportunity to reconcile, if necessary and technically and economically viable, the subterraneans with the commissioning of the service, since the completion times of the works of the main network and of the urban integrations may not be coincidental.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u89	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u90	Yes, Chief Arriola, don't tell me this was planned because it was a lie. In 2019 there are two informative studies on the table once tested, both Gastian and Bilbo stations, where the solutions are buried and buried. So that's the one that's tested for today. What is it now to say that some solutions can be made of unrelenting earth? It is known that provisional solutions extend a great deal. And as for the Gastenames and the Bilbon stations, we have experience. The Bilbo bus stop, for instance, has been 20 years, the Gastine bus station has been 21 years. And how long is this provisional solution going to last? How many years would it last once on the Earth? Thirty years? Fifty years? We think it's a "disproposite." When would the final solutions end? In 2050? 2080? We really think it's embarrassing that you're taking away and the image you're giving us. We don't know how much the project costs. We don't know when the trains are going to start... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... We really think it's a shame you're taking away and the image you're giving us. We don't know how much the project costs. We don't know when the trains are going to be started. Maybe this week, 2031, 2032, is the date of some optimistic date. We don't know if the goods are going south of June. We do not know what links outside our community will be. And if that were only a little short, we don't know what the tickets to Bilbo and Gasteize will be like right now. The Bilbai tickets, for instance, will be where the temporary ones will be: In the wilderness, Galdakaon? This is a disaster, Chief Arriola. If you were working in private company, you'd be in the streets a long time ago. And not only you, but also the chief departments who have handled the AHTO. And, by the way, the anger of the last days of EAJ seems comical at first, but when you realize how much money it's moving and what project's behind, for instance, the services of Renfe's temporary services, you realize that it's not comical, but tragic, isn't it? And now all the guilt seems suddenly, all the fault of the disaster of management is Madrid, the government of Madrid. Maybe it's the fault of the Madrid government that the Big Judge won't participate in the Bilbo solution. That must be Madrid's fault too. And I think, you know, you're running it, and there's been a lot of trouble handling in the gym branch where you're running the Arriola chief. Let us examine, for instance, the place of Hernani, which you are building just now. It's just a distance of 2, 4 kilometers long. How many years have you been doing that? I'll answer you because otherwise you'll do me the same. They'll be in September after you gave them ten years of early work. Ten years for a distance of 2, 4 kilometers, Chief Arriola. That's a good management.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u91	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Mr. Arriola.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u92	Mr Fernandez de Betoño, what I have proposed is something very simple to understand, and it does not mean that we delay the underground or park them. I repeat that all the institutions involved, both the Basque Government and the Government of Spain, the municipalities and the deputies, at least those of Álava, are committed to the underground of the railway in Bilbao and in Vitoria-Gasteiz. And there is no division to carry it out an unhidden solution. See if we are committed to the Basque Government's underground, which we are going to pay 25% of its cost in the two cities. As I have already mentioned on several occasions, the horizon proposed by the Government of Spain for the completion of the works of the main branch of the "Y Vasca" is located at the end of 2026 or early 2027, while, today, the accesses to Bilbao and Vitoria are still in the process of informational study. My interest as a Transport Advisor is that all works move forward as quickly as possible, but also that the high-speed train will be put into service as soon as possible. And in this I am putting my commitment, directly in the sections executed by the Basque Government in the Gipuzcoan branch, which, according to forecasts, we will end in this legislature, but also in the accesses to Vitoria-Gasteiz and Bilbao, in order to make progress in parallel with the processing of their informational studies. We are already doing so in Vitoria with the bidding of the drafting of the basic project, scheduled for after the summer. And my purpose is also to move forward in Bilbao, and to secure and sign a protocol of commitments, including financial commitments, (...) commitment (...) of all the institutions we have an interest in participating in the project. In this sense, the City Council of Bilbao has publicly said that it wants to replicate the model with praise, and we agree. This protocol, following the lauded model, would be the previous step for the constitution of the society that will be responsible for the burial in Bilbao. Mr Fernandez de Betoño, this is a very complex work, long and not without difficulties, of course. But I am really surprised by your interest, and by your group, in an infrastructure that you have publicly denounced and tried to paralyze from the beginning. If it were for you, there would be no high-speed train in Euskadi and, therefore, no need to affect its integration in Bilbao and in Vitoria. On the other hand, we believe that this is an essential infrastructure for our connection with Europe and the rest of Spain. In any case, and since I see you so concerned about VAD, you could do us all a favor and ask the municipalities governed by EH Bildu to try not to put so many administrative obstacles and do their best to facilitate the development of the works. Because of course, everything helps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u93	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. fourteen points in theme list: "The question is, you know, about Martíz together, the lawmate of the Animals, the planetion, Housing, and the chairman of the Transport Department, about buying a few flats to the Bilbo Gotzai. " Martínezon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u94	Thank you. Mr Arriola, last 15 December the Basque Government bought 14 houses from the Bishopric of Bilbao for 1.7 million euros. Five months later, on 14 April, Carlos Aguiriano, a 61-year-old citizen with multiple sclerosis, received a letter at his home. It was a demand, a letter, a demand for eviction. The petition was submitted by the Bishopric of Bilbao. Carlos lives since he was born in that house, first with his mother and then also, only when he died, with his sister, in the only house that the Basque Government did not buy from the Bishopric of Bilbao. Since both the Bishopship has a theoretical commitment to human rights, and the Department of Housing has a legal commitment, through the Constitution and the Housing Act, to the satisfaction of citizens' housing rights, I ask you what you intend to do in the face of this demand for eviction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u95	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u96	Thank you, President. Mr Martínez, as you point out in the justification you are asking, last December the Basque Government acquired 14 houses from the Bishopric of Bilbao, all empty, without tenants. This type of operation allows us to expand the public offer of housing for social rent, incorporating empty floors and thus increasing the access possibilities of people who demand affordable rent through the lists of Etxebide. The housing to which you refer has not been offered in... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... access for people who demand affordable rent through the Etxebide lists. The housing to which you refer has not been offered at any time to the Department of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport, and no one, neither the social services of the municipality nor the Court have contacted us to address the situation of this possible eviction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u97	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u98	Thank you, Mr Arriola, but I have been rather perplexed and worried and outraged by your response. If I know, what the housing department won't know about what's going on in that block. Carlos (?)Griano has a home, has a home in which he has lived for 61 years, as he said, first with his mother, took care of her there when she was sick, then with her sister, and now lives that person there. And that house has been left out of that purchase by the Basque Government of a full batch of the Bishopric of Bilbao. I wanted to give him some thought. The Bishop had had these empty houses for more than ten years in breach of their social function established in the Constitution and established in the Housing Act. How much the Bishop should have paid for an empty canon of housing. The agreement that you, the department, have signed with the Basque Government for... forgiveness, with the Bishop to mobilize empty housing, has it to make them available to Alokabide. I ask you: why has this not been done on this occasion?, was it better to buy at the price of an inheritance by which the Bishopric of Bilbao has won 100% of the operation, or to force the Bishopric to fulfil the social role of housing by mobilizing it for social rent? And what already hurts, worries, unworthy, and seems totally out of place to me, is that that house was left out of that purchase, the only house left out of that purchase. The only dwelling, moreover, that fulfilled and that fulfilled the social function of the housing, in this case, remains the property of the Church and its user is Carlos, who urgently needs a social rent. I make you a proposal, as you do not want to rectify, to leave this house out of that purchase. I convene an extraordinary meeting of the Follow-up Commission which has that agreement, which they have with the Bishop's Office, to convince the Bishop to withdraw that demand and to seek an urgent solution for him, which for us right now is that Carlos should stay at home. There is no right to the Church, and we do not know whether there has been bad faith on the part of the Government, but your answer, I say again that we are indignant. We don't know if in the... Come on, there's no right for the Church to do this, to file a demand for eviction, and for the government not to act. Just as I am asking you at this time, this very morning we sent a letter to the Bishop, to Joseba Segura, to withdraw that demand. You, as a housing adviser, have to act, avoid this eviction, which is seen in the middle of a purchase operation by the Basque Government. It's impossible to turn it off from that buying operation. The view is on the 15th of July, and therefore, I believe it is time to pay more attention to workers' priests like Periko Salaberria, and let them sleep peacefully and let Carlos dream calmly and enjoy his right to decent housing in his home for more than 60 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u99	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u100	Mr Martínez, as a result of the decision taken by the purchasing department of these dwellings, today there are 14 more dwellings in the public housing park for social rent. And I told him at the beginning and I want to make it clear that this house has never been offered by the Bishop and that we do not know the case, except what is published by some means of communication. I also believe that you are aware of this, because this is not the first time you have asked about the subject, and you have been transferred from the department on time all the information we have. The houses purchased from the Bishopric of Bilbao were empty, and therefore, there is no link between that purchase and the case you raise. Our department currently manages 15,089 rental properties. A very significant number, which has increased by no less than 25% in the last four years, but remains insufficient to meet all existing demand. And in this sense we continue to work on different lines of action that help us to expand both the public rental park and the number of people served, and for this we have the collaboration of the other public administrations, especially the municipalities, as well as other economic and social agents, public and private. But beyond these issues directly related to our daily work, there is one issue that this department has been involved with for a long time. The search for solutions for debtors in good faith who are faced with evictions, both for foreclosure and for rent-free. A partnership agreement between the General Council of the Judiciary, the Basque Government and Eudel has been in operation since 2013. This agreement was reformed and updated in 2019 and its objective is to identify cases of vulnerability in launches and to enable the adoption of appropriate social measures in each case following the analysis of municipal social services. These can be in the form of housing, but also economic benefits or other assistance. At the moment, Mr Martínez Zatón, the case you brought here has not reached that limit, so we have read, the channels of communication are still open between the owner and the tenant, and we hope that the appropriate steps will be taken to reach a satisfactory agreement for both parties. If, unfortunately, that is not the case, it will be within the framework of the convention to which I have referred, in which their situation must be addressed, as we do with the rest of the people in vulnerable situations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u101	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 15th point in the theme list: "Interrament, Ubeka Ubera Aranz and EH Collectors to the head of the Medical Department, not to be reduced to the first consultations of Osa. " Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u102	Good morning, Mrs. Apple. Well, here's the holiday season, better say, it's the holiday season. And so the criteria to be followed by the board director has been established, and consequently the instructions are being distributed between the working people from different ESI directions. And in these statements there are two principal principles: One, the schedule... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... His instructions are being distributed among the workers from different departments. And in these statements there are two principal principles: the one, from eight o'clock in the morning, reduces the distance between eight o'clock, and the other closes the consultations of small towns, and places themselves in the centre of a larger town or a town, or the consultations of different districts are closed and centralized in one quarter. We have a lot of examples. For instance, in the Balhurto-Burbo ESI, all the consultations of Bilbo until 5 p.m., and then at 4 consuls, until 8 a.m., at St. I can give you a thousand examples, and well, I can go on. But, for instance, in a few towns, three doctors will be left in the ambulances for eight doctors. Or that which hath hitherto been in force: In order to get access to the doctor, for a medical consultation, a leak has to be passed, and the nurse decides whether or not she is going to have a consultation with the doctor, which is done in several ambulances. In some cases, it may be understood, that the hours of service for the summer are adaptations, or that of consulting in districts which may be near each other in the capitals, if it is at any moment. But what is planned for this summer is beyond. Besides, it is in a very delicate moment, and already beyond the seasons of summer and vacation, it is another reduction which is added to the reductions which are supported. And that's what makes you worried about the people. He worries because they don't know if it's a spot or if it's short, or if he's here to stay. and it's a reorganization to penetrate into the reduction of health service, isn't it? I have seen that hitherto they have been reduced to their proper homes by means of restrictions. We understand professional health needs vacation, like the rest of us. Besides, after the years we've had, it's been a very hard year and it's essential to want professional health, but that's not the problem. The problem is, we're short of professional health, because of the political decisions we've made for years. Of course, there's also need to change the order and the way it works, because the organization model that's in it doesn't help. We've recently heard the medical department's restrictions, the closures, the professional health needs a vacation, haven't we? But we want to remember that, from the model of opposition to the health department, there are, in years, a machine without a holiday. For they contract for three months, those contracts are broken, they are tied up, so that they don't take vacations, permits and licenses can't be taken. So, Mrs. Appledui, they need all the vacations. the fixed, the interinoes, but also the inventory and the substitutes. On the other hand, as has been said before, we have great doubts that these restrictions have come to stop, which is a further reduction, and that further consultations have been closed up until now. We don't know if this will bring to close any more unbroken attentions, because they have hitherto closed the unfinished attentions. And we don't know if the schedule is reducing because the schedules have been reduced so far. And we don't know if this will bring it to centralize more pediatrical services, because up to now the pediatry services have been centralized. We would like to know, that the model of union with Osa, the intermediate, the number of families, to other communities or other states in the state where they have gone, or how many families in the hospital troubles terminate, because there is no emergency specialist. So, it's not a hobby watching vacations. It's not a decision or measure to look at holidays. It's not a natural tendency or reorganization. Pandemia is a policy that, in consequence of a disturbing policy and a panicous policy, has given the first attention a touch. For the access to the health system is more and more difficult, and it is more and more remote for the people to access their first attention. It would have been a measure of the population to tell how much the health of the population has been reduced to the first year's attention because it has reduced access to the consuls. The measure would have been what the health evolution of the chronics is, because they have ruined the conditions for the tracking of chronics. Or that he has suddenly succumbed in the country, because in small countries he is found in a less moderate health service, and then we say that we wish the small people to live. And when all this happens to be more and more old-fashioned population. I don't know how extreme the situation of our first attention is. But all this is not a coincidence. It is the direct consequence of specific politics, the result of a specific policy of opposition, of lack of planning. And now we find ourselves in the absence of professional health, which has a very difficult solution in the short term, but which, if we do not take measures, will not be able to solve in the middle and length of time. So, on the one hand, we need alternatives to the short term, and, on the other, we need to start taking the measurements of the short-term and the long-drawn, internal resources in the policy of opposition, that is, the possession of the MAIL functions... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... we must begin to take it. Contraction Policies (... ) Rights, that is to say, DIR to acquire manuals, to accommodate the first disposition of attention to the college stocks, and to new times. A machine can be measured. But all these measures must be taken from the patient's point of view. They must be patient on the axis. They must be a citizen on the axis. And not just looking at health professionals. Little people, we have to look after small peoples. Even in cities, we need to get the most vulnerable neighborhoods. We need to reinforce local services. But in every case, yes, we should give a curious leap to the communal attention, because it is time to work on the establishment and prevention of health. Because it's time to stop de-activating first. But we don't know, we don't know what the Medical Department's plan is, what the Medical Department really has, because in theory it tells us one thing, but what we see in practice has nothing to do with the theory of its praxis. And this gives us uneasiness, because we see the centralization of services, that the hospitals are strengthened by the reduction of the first consuls of attention. And in the end, the services go back to the hospital, or to the private area, and especially the patients, who are injured by the people. So what we'd like to know today is the plan of the Medical Department, what's the plan of the Medical Department in order not to reduce the first attentional queries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Lady cider, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u104	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. In the justification of your interaction you confuse several things. It's a habit, too, to mix things up. The occupation of units in insects, the reduction of the waitlists, the reconnaissance of previous attention, to the prejudice of telematic attention, attention to people with chronic diseases, the adaptation of summer hours. And, to finish, professionals deserve to be tied up to take a vacation, about reducing their consultations. We know very well what are the departments that have improved and strengthened primary attentions. I've explained it to you at least three times. These plans were advanced by November in another kind of interpelation. Also, when we introduced the strategic framework of this medical department, and committed first-rate attention to the budget this year. You know what our plan is. More places for both medical and nursing staff; more investment in health equipment and infrastructure, and new organizational measures. We have been here for a long time to know that every summer there is a reduction in the demand for primary care consultations, of the order of 33%. It is an unquestionable reality that, from the obligation of responsible and proper management of public resources, we cannot ignore, nor can we ignore that health care professionals need rest after a year and a half very hard. Nor do we know that the rate of vaccination must be maintained during the summer, in order to acquire the highest level of immunity in society. And finally, you know that for some time now the demand for optional and nursing staff in Osakidetza has been higher than that of available professionals, especially in some specialties. There are not enough medical and nursing staff, in these cases, to cover the places we offer. But we don't cushion them. We keep them on offer. Then there is no reduction. We have incorporated many people from outside of Euskadi, many. And yet, it's still not enough. And this is not an economic problem. I have already explained to you, in the presentation of this year's budget, what was the increase in the allocation for Osakidetza, and in particular for the fight against the covid. One cannot ignore the effect that the pandemic has had, and has, on the health service. To claim that the income of persons affected by covid does not alter the normal activity of hospitals, that waiting lists do not increase, that face-to-face care has been reduced. The professionals cannot be asked to rest in the summer, and to pretend that this is not accompanied by reorganization measures, in this case, during the summer. If it's not clear, I'll explain it again, during the summer. Well, with all these drawbacks, face-to-face consultations have gradually increased in recent months, reaching a balance between the demand for citizenship and the supply that is currently in force. In the epidemic situation in which we are still in, citizenship is demanding non-personal care in an important way, to the extent that it obliges us, on some occasions, to reconvert face-to-face and non-face appointments in order to respond to their demand. The start of the holiday does not imply a change in this respect. We will continue to follow up and extend the offers of such consultations where required. It is true that in some health centres it is more complicated, because there is still, today, to continue with the sectorisation. But, in spite of this, there is an increase in the presenceality. Looking ahead to the summer, with the temporary reorganizations that we have planned, the level of service was similar to that of previous summers. It may not be identical to what has been done in other years in each clinic and in each outpatient clinic, but with the same level of care. Primary care has never closed its consultations, nor has it stopped attending to citizens... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... but with the same level of attention. Primary care has never closed its consultations or stopped attending to citizens, it has simply been adapted to give the best possible response in each of the scenarios. Do not mix the necessary adaptation of summer services, caused by the reduction of demand, with the future of primary care. I remind you of the first object in the strategic legislation document: to promote and strengthen the attention of the first degree, as a degree of assistance nearest to the people, to ensure the greater possible, and to avoid the want of equity and inequality of health. Second target: to promote medical training and nurse training. Third target: the improvement of equipment, the better service and better work conditions. First-rate attention this year's budget: More pro 196, part 4% for administrations, 21 million investments in primary attention, new organizational measurements, creating specific primary attention director. We've explained all these actions and they're the reality that we're getting real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u106	Madame apple, you will understand the plan of not being troubled or clearly concerned, because what you say does not agree with what you do. And you said you had a strategy, that you introduced commitments, that you also introduced it in budgets, but you look at it, and then you say there's no reduction. Ms. apple, please, it's objective data, it's objective data, and it's contained in instructions. There are contusions, not just looking at this summer season. Hence our concern and concern for our fellow-citizens, who have seen that even before summer the centralization of services has been established, and that the examinations have been closed, and that the hours have been reduced. And that's the summer that's added to now? So you'd like to see it or not, but if you wanted to see it, it doesn't change reality, and that's where we have a problem. And please don't put the presence of public consultations on the public's back because the people asked for it. Please, please, that's not the case. They're petitioning for presenceal consultations. They're asking for others, too? Yeah, but aber, be careful with what you say. And it's sad, it's sad, but the strategy you're dealing with isn't good enough to get your first attention out of the intenses, because the first attention is in the intensive care. The first concept of attention must be recovered. You see, on Wednesday we had a first-vegetable DMD doctor here, and he used to say: this long-ranged character of the health system was already lost, and therefore the speciality and other places in which the first attention had access, and this was interrupted, and then the first attention was dissolved. And, OK, the formation is very good, the infrastructure is fine, but we need professionals because they're being handled by people and they can't take people without a person, because they can't take care of patients, all right? So, apart from our first care-taking organizations and precautions, to be professional health, we need a plan to face the deficiencies of professional health. A plan from college until I get to Osa. A whole plan and an integral. We need MIIR gifts to respond to the reality of our social demography in order to answer our needs. We need him to respond to the balance of the EAE territory, we need him to consider the small countries, because later we say a few things... and among these small peoples the services which have hitherto been maintained must at least be maintained. We need to build a network that will guide the pediatricians and coordinate them while the pediatrics form, in order to ensure a quality service to the minors. And we need the primary attention pediatric service to open up methods of collaboration and professional development with the hospital pedigree. We need a planning on need, it's urgent, it's urgent, because it's not effective, because it's not effective, because it's not responsible for the issues we're answering. We see, and that's what we need for, even in our first attention, to introduce new profiles apart from fisium therapy, we need other profiles. We need all those jobs that are in the first day's attention, that are not included in the structure of the planet, grafting them into the planet's structure, and putting on the surface and code. Because they're not officialized and they don't exist on paper that didn't exist, or on official ivory, and then they disappear. And we need to be able to stabilize the workers that are temporarily involved in our first attention. We need to be patient, because first attention is the access to all other health systems. So the restrictions you've made on your vacation, or whatever you want to call it, it's not a punctual thing, it's already coming. And it's the public's concern to see if it will go deeper in all the restrictions we've been dealing with, or what will happen. In the end, as the health of all is at stake, the health of society is at stake, beginning with small nations and capitals. And there's a task there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Ms. apple, your word is yours. [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u108	Thank you. Mrs. Ubera, really, in the end, you're going to believe that you're the one who says it's destroyed first of all. You should be proud, as everyone else is, of the public health service and the first care we have. You should be proud. But I will continue to give you detailed terms in this Chamber, and in regard to the first-class attention, the already anticipated activities. To promote the dynamic reorganization of first-rate centers so that we can adapt to the influence of the still existing pandemom. The increase of the first-class attention, which is a reality, we do not remove and put them away. We told you there was a increase in the next budget, and they increase in the budget this year. As the pressures of Covid decreased, encourage the measures required to restore all services to normality. And for that purpose, if the people in certain places ask us to consult them in a different manner, we restore them to their power. And we reroute it. And it is true, do not lie, because this is the case in certain places, asking for the people. Because we also talk to the people. First-class attention nurse to continue with the process of strengthening the services of covid in advance to strengthen the wants of the first wave, rehiding the hired workers. To encourage the reduction of the list of waiting lists of health caused by Covidek, to spread and homogeneize the diagnostic tests that first-rate medical experts can ask for, so that they don't have to go to the hospital. And gradually integrate it into primary attention, the thing that reality is doing. To enlarge the investment of secondary attention, to moderize the pharmaceutical figures of first-rate attention, to strengthen the primary attention, to advance into the ameritial integration of other grades, and especially in the social field. Perdiatrian, the faithful MIR, and the family in common medicine, MIR and (... ) faithfulty is the first to be praised. 77% of the family medical services occur. And let us remember that many and many go back to their own countries, and that this is their decision. For professionals also have a chance of making their decisions, and sometimes they are determined to a hospital where they go, without first consideration, and not because doctors are wanting in submarines, but are their choices. And that also must be said, that they have all opportunities. And in addition, in the expansion of primary care staff to 196 people throughout this year, in relation to infrastructure, this year we have inaugurated the centres of Irala, Aiete and Murgia. The functional plan for Laudio has been developed, and its location has been agreed upon. But those performances are not unique. In addition, we plan to modernize and install lifts in the health centers of Gros, Errenteria, Zuazo, Derio, Ondarroa, reform the health centers of Areta, Eibar, Deusto, Markonzaga, Kabiezes, Bergara, Toulouse, Ordizia, Laudio. Update the general facilities and renovation of the facilities of the consultations, look for new locations for the health centers of Aretxabaleta, Casco Viejo de Vitoria-Gasteiz. And in the field of care, we have, we have already done, developed the children's health programme for the improvement and updating of paediatric care. And investments. Investments in materials. Note that already, and so on, they are sluggish: 50 ecographers, 25 ultraportable ecographers, 15 spirometers, 135 dermatoscopes, 20 integrated contrast towers, 140 autoclaves and 241 holter. All this leads to primary care. Eta zergatik? Persona erdian daukagulako. But I'll end up with something else. You always say it with the citizen and the citizen. Well, he mentioned it this morning. The people spoke: y un77 de la Ciudadía vasca licate a memberia con notable sobresalente. Un 77%; un 12% un atestado, y solo el 5 le otorgaba el suspenseso. No sera, entonces... ? Is it not because things are so bad, and because we do things so badly, as you say? The people have spoken and expressed their opinion. Let's hear it. But let's all hear it, huh? You know that in three65 days a year, 24 hours, health custody is guaranteed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u109	Thank you, chief of departments, Mrs. Apple. The 16th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, "about the negative development and development of the Eucharistic suicide rate by the Congresse of the Ciudad Vegas Euscala and the prevention of this development." Mr. Gil Vegas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u110	Yeah. Today we wanted to put on the table a subject that seems very important to us: it is the subject of suicide. Yesterday, as a result of the debate on mental health, he had numerous references. It seems every time it occupies more, not only – fortunately – all parliamentary groups, but also society, and of course us, because every suicide – as we all know – is a tremendous personal and family tragedy. Besides, it's a problem. It is a subject that is surrounded by something, of silence, of taboo, which makes it difficult for society to have a clear awareness of its actual incidence. We believe that every suicide is a failure of the entire society and therefore it is the responsibility of the institutions to put in place all possible mechanisms to try to avoid each and every one of them. Globally, according to the latest WHO estimates published a few days ago, over 700,000 people committed suicide in 2019. This means that 1 in 100 deaths are due to suicide, more than deaths caused by war, AIDS, malaria or cancer. It is a fact that sometimes we are not aware of the importance it has. Here in Euskadi, the number of suicides is the cause of external death, and exceeds the number of victims of homicides, traffic accidents and gender-based violence together: 187 Basque citizens took their lives... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... and exceeds the number of victims of homicides, traffic accidents and gender-based violence together, 187 Basque citizens took their lives in 2020, one every two days on average, representing a worrying increase of 27.2% over the previous year. We are aware that last year has been a special year, which has logically affected this issue but this cannot make us either relax or consider it acceptable. Each of the deaths is important, and that is why, Madam Counsellor, today I ask you what the Executive's assessment is of the planned actions to prevent suicide in Euskadi in the light of this data.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u111	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Madame apples, to answer...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u112	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. The assessment is that the annual data cannot yet be used as the only indicator of the evolution of the incidence and usefulness of the approved strategy in 2019, because being a small total number, any increase or decrease would reflect very high percentage variations. If we did or if I made an assessment of the strategy in the terms proposed to me, I should tell you that the suicides that have been counted between 1 January and 31 May this year have been 38. That is, if we followed that trend, we would reduce the number of suicides by half at the end of the year, and in that case the assessment would be positive. But no, I'm not doing that exercise. No, because I believe that it is not in those terms that this assessment should be made and because, of course, each and every one of the lost lives is worth it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u114	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Councilwoman, I did not mean at all with this data to blame you for that figure, because it is obvious that it is a failure of the whole society. And it's true what you say that actually being small numbers, any variation of small numbers changes a lot. But it is true that it is an issue that we have to pay a lot of attention and especially at this time, because people are actually having a very bad time and mental health is a very worrying issue. You presented a suicide prevention strategy in 2019 that included 57 concrete measures, some of which have not yet been implemented and we do want to ask you, Madam Counsellor, that the Basque Government do what is in its hands, put the batteries with this. It is not your responsibility the end result of this nor do we try to make the suicide figure assess all the strategy, but it is true that we have to do everything possible to avoid, as you have said, each and every one of these deaths because it is not acceptable for us in Euskadi to have an average suicide of one every two days because, as you have said, no death is acceptable in this respect. The bet on mental health and the subject of suicide, I think it goes even a little beyond the subject of mental health, is fundamental and especially in the childhood stages, because they have a decisive influence on adult mental health. And there we have a big unsolved public health problem, facing which we consider that there are no partisan or, without a doubt, ideological positions. So, counselor, I ask you, how can we help you? What can we do? And I want to offer you our collaboration to work on this issue, because we consider that every life that is lost, is lost a treasure. It is true that it is a subject, this one of suicides, that we sometimes tend not to pay due attention to it and that moreover society seems not to want to see it or that we do not see it with the strength that it really has and according to our objectives is that this has the visibility that it needs. Therefore, one of the things that would surely have to be done is to raise public awareness of the importance of this issue, to make an in-depth analysis of its causes – as I know it is a very complex phenomenon and it has difficult treatment, but that does not take away so that we can do everything possible. I have a feeling that families have a feeling that we don't have everything we should do for them and that's what worries me. In that sense, I repeat, our hand extended to do everything possible and to offer our cooperation in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u115	Thank you, Mr. Gil. You're sagardi andrera.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u116	Thank you, Mr Gil, for both your offer and your open hand to cooperate, I am sure that with that intention we will be able to do so. It is true that we do not know what evolution will be like throughout the year. We could not know, as we spoke before, because the incidence of the last few years of 0.7 over 100,000 inhabitants, with not significant climbs and falls, right? But it is true, too, and you were telling me what measures have not yet been taken, that the suicide strategy in Euskadi laid down medium- and long-term measures, then we have to make our way and that is what we are in. This was already foreseen in the strategy itself. He knows that efforts are being made to establish an epidemiological surveillance system that will serve us to see the real meaning of the completed suicides and to establish relations between them because, among other things, and you have mentioned, not only mental health is the only trigger of those decisions. We believe that this can lead to the accounting of suicide deaths, in order to improve the accuracy and accuracy of the measures. In addition, work is already under way to contextualize hot areas or environments where suicides occur most frequently. Following this process will come the implementation of passive control and deterrence measures. We think that with this we can, perhaps, better understand the cause of such dramatic decision-making. And, in addition to accounting for and recording suicide attempts, it is essential to avoid future suicide risks. This is, to go ahead, not talking about those I know or those who have committed suicide, but about those who have shown an attempt to follow them up, an accompaniment. In fact, Osakidetza is working on a recent suicide attempt code, which will seek close follow-up of those who go to hospital for a suicide attempt in collaboration with the rest, including the mental health network, as well as primary care, as well as social and health care. In addition to these measures, I fully agree with you that we need to pay attention to survivors, training and awareness-raising of the community, social and educational system. I think that's what's going to help us with that... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... training and awareness raising of the Community, social and educational system. I believe that this is what will help us to this early detection and, therefore, to try to help those people who are in such a critical situation, with various reasons, as they decide to make their life a no one wanted end, which is that of suicide. I hope we all get it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Subject list point 19: "To ask the question, As to Amaia Martíne, the Bills of Misto, a member of the legislature of the Misto group, made to the Chief of Equality, Justice, and Society, to the select memory of the Institute." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u118	Good morning, everyone. Mrs. Artolazabal. According to Gogora's own statutes, the goal of the Gogora Institute is to promote the configuration of memory in an inclusive manner and ensuring citizen participation. But the expression of pluralism in the configuration of memory has a limit. The memory cannot be used either to exclude or to match events. Memory cannot be used to legitimize any terrorism or violation of rights. Having said that, a brief look at the institution's activities and news make it clear that its work is not this, that the statutes are not respected. Many memory-related issues have been commemorated over the past week. Facts that, according to you, do not deserve a single mention. We have, for example, on 19 June of 87 the attack of Hipercor, in which ETA kills 21 people in Barcelona and leaves 45 injured. One of the most serious attacks in Spain's history; the second after the 11M. We already lived in democracy. Not a single mention in Gogora. Is it not a significant fact of our democracy? June 21, 93, ETA kills in Madrid lieutenant colonel of the Army of Earth Javier Baró, lieutenant colonel of the Army of Air José Alberto Carretero, sergeant first of the Navy José Manuel Calvo Alonso, lieutenant colonel of the Army of Earth Fidel Dávila Garijo, frigate capital of the Navy Domingo Olivo Esparza, civil officer of the Ministry of Defense Pedro Robles López, who drove, of course, the vehicle, and lieutenant colonel of the Army of Air Juan Romero Álvarez. In addition, 40 people were injured, including three children. We already lived in democracy. Not a single mention in Gogora. Isn't the Army among the guarantors of our democracy? June 22, 77, Javier de Ybarra and Bergé were kidnapped and, unable to pay the ransom, they killed him. Wasn't a civilian in the publishing world killed by an ETA political organization in our territory? June 22, 79, Francisco Medina, mason, ETA acribulates him for no reason. Wasn't a civilian killed in democracy for political reasons? June 24, 81, Ignacio Ibarguchi and the brothers Juan Manuel and Pedro Conrado Martínez Castaños were three Basques that ETA confused with three police officers. And when they were about to get into the vehicle, the terrorists opened fire. No mention by Gogora. Aren't they the demonstration of how you lived here because of the terrorist organization ETA? Aren't they as much victims as, for example, José Miguel Andueza? And so many more, which for a reason of time I can't include. However, what do we find on your website? Victims of the Civil War, killed by the police. They denounce the rest of the violence, which Vox, of course, also condemns, but they tend to forget the biggest anomaly in our democracy: the history of ETA and its more than 800 fatal victims. With this they get what they say they want to avoid: to approve everything. When it is not possible to buy ETA with anything, not even with jihadism. Therefore, given the criteria of his institute, rather than of memory, we believe we can say that it is propaganda. Could you explain the criteria of the institution, so that we can consider it in some other way?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u119	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u120	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs. Martínez, I am going to make you a recommendation that I really do without any acrid: Read the text of Law 4/2014, creating Gogora, and read your four-year plans. They talk about critical memory, ethical memory, inclusive memory. They speak of memory for coexistence. They speak of the memory of the victims, of the truth, of the service of the truth, of the restoration, of the dignity and of the memory of the victims. They talk about social commitment to peace, freedom, democracy and also human rights. And these are the principles that inspire Gogora's action plans. Also the plan that we have recently presented, Plan 21-24, with the aim of working and further deepening in coexistence. Your question is generic. You didn't tell me if you meant historical memory, recent memory. I don't know what you wanted to ask. But now you've made it clear to me. And I'm gonna try to answer it. Yes, last Saturday we participated, together with other institutions and organizations and entities, in the event of tribute to the Gudaris and militiamen killed on Mount Artxanda days before the taking of Bilbao. And of course we have also accompanied and will continue to accompany the families who have seen their right to exhume the bodies buried in the Valley of the Fallen. And I also say to you with good pride that we have created in Gogora a database with more than 20,000 personalized records of victims of the Spanish Civil War. Victims, Mrs. Martinez, from all sides. And it refers to recent memory, if you refer to recent memory, as it is the only thing that seems to have mattered to you in your inquiry, on Monday last week we pay tribute to José Miguel Andueza, a recognized victim of police violence, on the 51st anniversary of his death by the Civil Guard. And tomorrow, 26 June, International Day of Support for Victims of Torture, established by the United Nations General Assembly, we will deliver the first recognition resolutions to victims of human rights violations in the context of politically motivated violence. Because restoring dignity, restoring the truth is a right and a duty. And a right that, moreover, is indispensable and inalienable. And he's seen me and you and my team accompanying the victims of terrorism, working collaboratively with their associations and foundations, participating in their... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... you and my team accompanying the victims of terrorism, working collaboratively with your associations and foundations, participating in your activities, programs, days and seminars. And I assure you that empathy and closeness to the victims of ETA will not win either you or anyone. But I confirm that I will never use the victims, nor any victims, nor, of course, the victims of ETA terrorism. We continue (...) the Gogora database with testimonies of victims, councillors and public officials threatened by ETA. A few days ago I also announced the elaboration of a new programme, a new report, in this case on the suffering suffered by prison officials by the unjust terrorism of ETA. And I will participate this Sunday, Mrs Martínez, in the event of tribute to the victims of terrorism organized by the Congress of Deputies in Madrid. For me, all the victims are the same, and there are only first-rate victims. And I hope so for you too, Mrs. Martinez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Does Mrs Martínnez have a word to say? No. The twentieth point in the theme list: "Interression, the parliamentary members of the Euscalo Barroja, Basque Popula-Ciudadans, made for Cultura and the chief of the political departments, to develop the roads of St. James Jakua, to preserve and to spread them." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u122	Thank you, President. Good morning again, all of you. Counselor, counselor. Ladies and gentlemen. I don't want to go too far in this part. I intend to know what will be done. And I want to talk about the Way of Santiago, the Way of Santiago as it passes through Euskadi, the Basque Country, and institutional support. The Way of Santiago, as you all know, has received numerous international distinctions, for the incalculable value of its cultural heritage to humanity, its consideration as a good of cultural interest, becoming the first European cultural itinerary. All these badges, many awarded by the Council of Europe as early as 1987, and many more. One of the most important recognitions of the history of the Camino de Santiago took place in 1993, when UNESCO declared it a World Heritage Site for the Pilgrimage Routes to Santiago de Compostela. And, I say again, here we have the fortune of having two routes, besides, on that path. We also have a Heritage Act, which has been renewed, and in that sense you can also do things in relation to enhancing the heritage value of this route. As I said before, Euskadi is an autonomous way by which two routes run from the Camino de Santiago: the Camino de la Costa and the Camino do Interior, that of San Adrian. And, moreover, I believe that the opportunity for this inquiry is due to a number of issues. The first, because we are in the middle of the year Xacobeo, 2021. In addition, Pope Francis announced, after the opening of the holy gate, that the holy year will also extend to 2022, which is magnificent news. And, besides, it starts with these two years a Jacobean decade that we are going to enjoy more holy years compostelanos in 2027, without going further. Already a little further, but in 2032, but, well, in the end, it is 10 years and where if the performances are good in the promotion and in the activity of public entities, in relation to the road are good and successful, we will all benefit, and will benefit that route, which is a historical route, which is an artistic route, which is a heritage offer, cultural tourism... And it's going to benefit, and we're all going to benefit from the attraction it has in its wake for this autonomous community as well as for others. Recently, we have also seen other news that have to do with the dimension of what we intend to do, what will be done in the Basque Country. We have seen that the Central Executive presented on Friday, precisely last Friday, in Oviedo, the National Tourism Plan Xacobeo 2021-2022, which is a project to promote the roads of Santiago as a cultural heritage product. The investment is 121 million euros that, supposedly, will be financed with the European funds Next Generation. That's there; that's what the government said. In addition, in the case of Euskadi, in this National Tourism Plan Xacobeo, Euskadi, the project envisages interventions in historical heritage in this field, in historical heritage of the Basque Country for a total amount of 5.5 million euros, in a total of 16 identified spaces., and that I will not say now. I believe that it is necessary to continue to act in the heritage, in the artistic, in the tourist and in the planning. And the intervention of the central government is there. It will, we suppose, be in collaboration and agreed with the autonomous communities. But we, from this situation, also want to know the Basque dimension of the actions to be taken by the Basque Government. We think it has to be. We think it's important. There must be a Basque dimension to the treatment, a Basque plan in relation to the Way of Santiago, with the Ways of Santiago. And a specific plan is also needed to revitalize it, to boost it, to encourage it, taking advantage of the celebration of that holy year that will extend to 2022. We have to remember that the 1993 Xacobeo was fundamental to turn the road into a product, we can say, star within the touristic, at that time. And it has added that tourist value to the rest of artistic, cultural, historical values. I believe that we are also at a good time to know the Basque Government's pretensions or intentions in relation to enhancing that path. The items generally attributed to the Camino de Santiago in the budgets of the Department of Culture, in the matter of Historical Cultural Heritage, are usually reduced. We've also seen the contracts... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... The Department of Culture in the area of historical cultural heritage is often reduced. We have also seen contracts in relation to some maintenance and such issues, but that is why we believe that an impetus is needed, is it not? We have seen how it has been done, it has been announced by the Central Government for all the parts, for all the roads of Santiago in Spain. And this plan incorporates measures to preserve and make better use of roads, and to boost tourism and economic activity. This is a very important project with a very broad and very important cultural dimension; and an international project of an international character. And I say again, we have the fortune of having two paths – the road to the coast and the road to the interior – as reference elements. So our approach is, in view of this, in view of the year that we live, in view of the plans that other administrations have, to know what are the purposes of the Basque Government in relation to the development, conservation and dissemination of the Way of Santiago, of the roads, in its passage through Euskadi in this legislature.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u123	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u124	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, señor Barri, all good days. The Camino de Santiago is one of the most relevant and universal heritage and cultural elements in Europe. And for Basque society and for the Basque Government it is also a Basque cultural good of reference. The path, as you have said, was declared by the Government of Spain in 1962, and then it has had subsequent recognitions by the European Council, as well as by UNESCO, which described it as a World Heritage Site. According to UNESCO, there are more than 1,800 religious and civil buildings of interest along the way. And it is considered to be one of the most important routes of medieval Christendom, along with those going to Jerusalem or Rome. It is therefore a cultural heritage in the broadest sense of the word. On the one hand, by the physical path itself and by the amount of material cultural goods found throughout its journey. And on the other hand, for the intangible heritage that the ancient tradition of pilgrimage represents. But we should also add to this the resource that has become both for the practice of cultural tourism, spiritual rest, physical activity or for the relationship between peoples, cultures and languages. The Camino de Santiago has been a growing social phenomenon for years. The pandemic has caused a drastic interruption in its enjoyment and it would be important to analyze the scenario facing it in this new episode. If we look at the data of recent years, for example, the hostel of Irún, through which most of the pilgrims enter the peninsula, offers the following picture: the year 2016 came 6,580 people; the 17, 7,300; the 18, 7,800; and the 19, 9,104. These should be added to 50% more people who are estimated to be staying in hotels and hostels. And in 2019, the Camino del Norte was the fifth most transited by pilgrims who arrived in Santiago de Compostela: 19,000. And to these we would have to add the people who have gone the way have not asked for their accreditation. The data themselves highlight the value that the road has as an element of cultural exchange of fusion of our culture and landscape or attraction of visitors. I will focus on what I am competent to do, on the cultural variety, on the cultural side of the Camino de Santiago, and on its status as a cultural heritage. It is a cultural good with the category of monumental ensemble, thus recognized by a decree of the Basque Government in 2000, and has had different evolutions. At first, the union of the landmarks of Jacob's meaning was favored more than the path itself. This led to an indefinition about his journey, which was modified in 2012 by decree two of the same year, by which he defined the route we currently know. The protection regime was also then defined, both on the road and on the goods concerned. The landmarks or historical sites through which he was crossing the road were maintained for this purpose. On the other hand, special intent was placed on the purpose of physically uniting the historic roads and public roads, avoiding, whenever possible, dangerous roads and roads. And so it turned out an itinerary, which is what we now know, which is the result of an evolution that occurred throughout history. And in it highlight the cultural heritage elements of the places it passes through, but it is also allowed to see the cultural, social and economic evolution that the passage of time has brought with it. Indeed, I share with you that we have an important good and that, moreover, we have it as a double game: with the road of the coast, which passes through Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia; and with the road of the interior, which runs through Gipuzkoa and Araba from north to south. This decree, the last, of 2012, is in the process of being amended, as there has been a need for its revision. Not for the purpose of modifying neither the layout, nor the elements of the lists, nor the regime of the lists, but rather for the purpose of clarifying the protection regimes according to their urban or urban nature. In this sense, this would be the first line of work, and as a result, last June 11 was published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country the resolution of the Deputy Councillor of Culture to start the process of public information and hearing. These changes are in line with what other autonomous communities are developing. Monday... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... the processing of public information and hearing. These changes are in line with what other autonomous communities are developing. Second line of work. Protection and conservation. The year 2020 we commissioned a technical audit of the road and in that audit 53 incidents were identified and an intervention was made on them that has been based mainly on the resettlement of posts, the resettlement of wooden milestones and the resettlement of plates and arrows, and actions have been carried out where it has been necessary: Zalduondo, Bidania, Errenteria, Hondarribia, Pasaia, Lezo, Donostia, Aia, Zarautz, Getaria, Deba, Mutriku, Markina-xemein, Munitibar, Arbatzegi, Gerrikaitz, Mendata, Morga, Zamudio, Barakaldo, Abanto, Zierbena, Muskiz and Zalla. Also, from the Heritage Directorate, thanks to the relationship and collaboration that we maintain with the Associations of Friends of the Way, we manage the interventions in the physical layout, such as falls of trees or mojones hidden by the vegetation, on which we act in collaboration with the associations, the corresponding municipalities or the outlaws. As a third line I would also like to highlight the relationship with the Euskadi associative tissue linked to the Camino de Santiago. These associations carry out enormous work and have done so for many years. Without their work, dedication and commitment it would not be possible to maintain this path. It is fair to recognize, therefore, their passion and their surrender, and also to emphasize that probably these associations, like many associations in Euskadi, are faced with the challenge of generational relief, something that not only happens in Euskadi. In this regard, a state-level summit of Associations of Friends of the Way will be held in Galicia this September, to be held in the framework of the Xacobeo 2021-2022. The Basque Government will participate in it. The fourth line of work has to do with the promotion and dissemination of the Camino de Santiago as a cultural heritage. I will highlight three concrete actions that we will be pushing forward in the coming months. On the one hand, the days entitled "El Camino de Santiago del Norte", a great European cultural itinerary at the crossroads of a sustainable future, which will take place in the framework of the summer courses of the UPV this summer. On the other hand, in 2019 we signed a cooperation protocol with Mie Prefecture, in Japan, with the aim of working collaborative projects and cultural exchange, and as a result, we decided to value the Way of Santiago in its passage through Euskadi as the Japanese road Kumano Kodo, also declared a World Heritage Site. Within this framework of the protocol, Mie Prefecture organized a traveling exhibition on the Way of Santiago with materials offered by our department, and vice versa, we are organizing an exhibition on the road Kumano Kodo in Euskadi, which will start in Irun in September and we will also take it to Bizkaia and Araba. Thirdly, we are celebrating a series of materials for the dissemination of the elements of cultural heritage that make up the path in Euskadi. These are postcards, one for each cultural element of the path, in which the image of the element is offered, a brief explanation of the element, its context on the path, the stage in which it responds and a QR code that links with the website, a web that we are precisely updating. The information on the Camino de la costa is updated with 142 tabs and we are about to publish the information on the Camino de la interior with 96 other elements. And, thirdly, we are developing information on the small alternative paths, another 30 chips. Finally, I would like to highlight our participation in the Jacobeo Council. The next meeting is scheduled for 5 July, a cooperation body that aims to facilitate communication between the General Administration and the Autonomous Communities related to the Camino de Santiago. These are the actions that are currently under way in the Department of Culture for the protection, conservation and enhancement of the Camino de Santiago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u125	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u126	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. Indeed, we must do things and above all we must make a special effort now, after this year of tourism stoppage, cultural stoppage, people's movement and to take advantage of these years that will be of value for the Camino de Santiago to address a series of actions. I believe that – I thank you of course for the issues that have to do with, that we will see how it materializes, with the modification of the rating and heritage protection – I believe that it is something that this review and all the efforts for that conservation and promotion that will then make it develop and that the cultural, artistic and tourist values of the whole area will be expanded, and logically the protection in every sense. Of course, in view of what exists today, the items are insufficient within what is the budget in relation to this issue, which I do not know what programmes we will have to go to in order to be able to spend more than we can spend on the items that are now budgeted, because we demand – and in the light of it, I say again, of that National Plan of Xacobeo – greater involvement. I am not just going to be aware of what the central government spends, but I believe that we need to make a further effort from the central government. It will do so in the area of heritage, the area of the recovery of some buildings, but I think it is also good that the Government should do so perhaps by complementing but in other areas of cultural promotion, of reference of international attraction. In that sense, it is true that in view of the presentation, the other one last Friday, on the 18th of the tourist plan of the Central Government in relation to Jacobeo, I would like to know if you are working and collaborating within... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... Central Government tourist in relation to the Xacobeo, yes I would like to know if you are working side by side, if you are collaborating, if within those agreements that are expected to be made in relation to the implementation of items or the expenditure of that money, there is an agreement. And I believe that this is the area of collaboration, the collaboration with the Government, in this case that already has a plan, a concrete plan, a plan, they quantified 121 million euros for the whole way, of course, and the collaboration with the autonomous communities, the autonomous communities, those that affect especially, as already happened in 2010. In Euskadi in 2010 he participated very actively in that Jacobeo in relation to a budget, with an important budget at that time, a budget that was there, which, of course, took many activities in that (?I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In the municipalities, in addition to conservation work, activities were carried out in collaboration with the State Society for Cultural Commemorations. There were many cultural activities in 2010, which later continued throughout 2011 in collaboration, in addition to some of them with other communities and reference elements. Today he has told us about some question that has to do with another country, with Japan, but at that time great efforts were made and an interesting promotion campaign was made at that time, in 2011, where after the Jacobeo (?)2010 participated in many talks in the recovery of the historical legacy through specialists in the field, held many conferences on roads and networks at that time. It collaborated, for example, with, among other initiatives, with trips across the sea, with the Higher Technical School of Nautics and the UPV in connection with some also maritime initiatives of the Way in this regard. Logically also at that time (...), the presence of summer courses in collaboration with the UPV, this time is repeated, and there was a campaign to raise awareness... were organized for a few weeks, even (...) Jacobean Week in the country, i.e. I believe that in this sense there is initiative, we see that there is disposition. Now there must, of course, be an important effort. We are going to call it a plan, but an action determined to take advantage of this opportunity, because it is not that we are doing something that happens or that suits us, it is something that is taking advantage of opportunities, and in this case, opportunities that will enrich us culturally, historically and touristly.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u127	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u128	Andrea President, Yellow Quarter. Yeah, I agree with you. As you say, we also say, James Way, St. James Jakue, is a cultural property, which is the inheritance of all the inhabitants of the world. And thus it has been known, approved, and esteemed for centuries, both in Europe and in Europe, and even amongst the nations. We are all aware and proud of the course of our autonomy community and our Basque nation. You know, it's always been fun to watch out for that, and that's what I'm talking about. And that's how it will be from now on. Your first... When you've spoken for the first time, and now, on the second, you've spoken about an initiative in the Government of the State. I'd like to say two things about this. The first is the new initiative which has been published through the Ministry, through the Industrie, Commerce, and the Ministry of Tourism last week. I don't know if it's in the budget, it's in the budgets of 2021, and, as has been stated, it'll be paid through the national funds in Europe. I should like to say, in the presence of this, that the "Next funds" belong to Europe, to all Europeans, and are to be governed among all the institutions. So, you know, it's just fun, and the Basque People, too. Therefore they are not those who are appointed by another, but we who are set up among them, to do the things that are required. So far there have been very few information on this subject. The first reports we had, were last week, a few days before the Minister Marotus had told us about Asturiah. And we were asked, what elements we could identify on our way to Santiago or St. James Jakue, which might be of special value in those countries and from the point of view of tourism. I am not the chief physician of Turism, and it is not for me to speak of it, but I can assure you that the goods which have been received in this first proposal are those which have appeared in the media, and those large sums which have appeared, and I have nothing new to say. Yes, I dare say, because in many cases it has produced certain spectivities, that they are partly without gold, and even such as might be taken from them, and in some cases they have been surprised, or because they did not expect the money, or because they did not know how to use it at the first moment. So that's where the work is this year because it's in the 21st budget to guide it, and I know that the Tourism Department is in touch with the Industrial, Commerce, and the Ministry of Tourism, to resist it. And from that point on, Mr. Barrio, there's something I said earlier. We attach the importance of this initiative. We give Done Jakue the importance of passing through our villages and our lands. And, as so far as I'm concerned, the RedMork will do what's in his hands through his budgets, and through those who come in from the outside, to respond properly to this point. It's been a very special year. I won't explain... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... through his budgets, and through those that come from outside, this point of answering the right thing. It's been a very special year. I won't explain it to you. I remember the number of times in a sectial committee of culture, which was made at the beginning of March 2020 in the Senate of Spain, the President of the Government of Galicia, proposed to the Minister, and proposed to the rest of the communities the year of Xacberus, and the effort to make. We all know what came next. And this year is almost to you. That's why it took another year. And I doubt not but on that committee on the 5th of July, that the Governments of Spain and the Governments of Galicia will present new enterprises. And when we know, we'll see how we make one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u129	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Number twenty-one point in the subject list: "The question is, that Jason Aguirre Garitagondia, the parliamentary of the EH Collectations, made for Cultura and the chief of the political divisions of Language, is to form the Basque Council of the Acquisitions of the Accusations of the Accusation of the Accusation of the Accusation of the Edal Ways." Mrs. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u130	Thank you, Madam President. And good afternoon to all and everyone. You too, Mr. Zupiria, do you think it's an anomaly that you don't have a Basque Council in the East? Do you, like us, think it an anomaly that no independent organs should be adapted to the wants of those who have been so much modified as to regulate, arranged, and without state? Don't you think it's an anomaly that the European Council herself recommends to the Council of Accusation and ignore us? Most of the advanced European nations have a visual council, France, Great Britain, Catalonia... Spain doesn't have it. He's the exception. Don't you think that anomaly even seems to think about? And do you not think, as a people, that it is an anomaly in the formation of the Council of Hearing, and that it is permitted to regulate the visible, or to make a law, and not to use it? And consequently to be subject to the rules of Spain? Isn't it an anomaly to ask for more rotation and not to use what we have?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u132	I don't know what protocol is about, because I'm on my back... Then I don't know how to do this. If there's no protocol, Mrs. President, Mrs. Aguirre, unlike you, I have my doubts. And I don't know if it's an anomaly that you don't have any F-O-O-O-O. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u133	Swallow the andre.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u134	... there is, but doubt is uncertain, you have refused our legal proposition. You say we have enough tools for it. And this is what we have, the law EITB of 40 years ago and its control organs are restricted to EIB, and two decrees, only in the house of Netflix, do I know how many years ago. Do you not realize that what we propose is far beyond EITB? And then see if it depends on the resurrection. You say we have webs against rumors. How can they decide? And, on the other hand, do they serve to protect the Basque, for instance, or the children? Are these all our instruments to deal with the change that digitalizes us? Are we going to dance with the crickets, this digital fight? You have decided at least for the moment to break this anomaly, but it is legitimate, but it is more legitimate to discuss it in this house. Give him a chance, then, and if you doubt it, give him a chance to argue. Take a thorough look at the subject. You have the whole summer before you, Mr. Zupiria, discuss between you and the two parts of the government, for the Social Party has always defended the Council of Vision. Listen to the people, hear the people. Give us a chance to convince you in this house where the agreement is to be found, because the agreement is possible. Let me, too, Mr. Zupiria, make a comparison. It's on a different level, but it's significant. The same thing happened to you with the EIB Redaction Council. Your party was completely opposed from the start. You didn't want an organ to protect professionals, and you kept old ways of doing it, and you were afraid of new ones, tried to keep the council from going. But in the end it's there, and you've made it yours. And this week you've spoken to us that the cradle needs to be in the digital environment, that it's a collective initiative, and you've asked us to help you. We don't need to say you're going to have our help, but we're asking you to do the same. As the President of Maddalen has told the President, let us act politically as a people. That's what we're asking you to do. We have time. Think of it this summer, and we shall speak again, if you will, and see if you will.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u136	Mrs. Aguirre, I don't doubt that, as I did from the beginning of 1979, he'll act politically on these matters, both in this and in institutions. The state of Guernica gave it to the Euscal Autonomy of the Esquimia, founded on the state, and developing the several States, to work in this area. And in the same way he gave the power to the Esquical Autonomy Er-Hordic to maintain television, radio and press. Under the protection of this title of Hands, Euscal Autonomy, the Esquimian, has established his legal rule in the parts of the visible media, in harmony with the regulations of the State and Europe. And the result is that Eukadin has developed a system of public, private, and social initiative, and the public or private communication system is more extensive than in other communities in the state... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... and a vast system of social extension has been developed, and the public and private communication system is more extensive than in other communities in the state. Many of these medias, though created on traditional support, have received a great deal of activity and echo, and will receive it through curious digital forms. Thus, during the four decades, Euskadin, a special system of social media has been created, and there are public and private agents: those who have plans of gain and have no plans of gain. This system is of several kinds, plural and eloquent, and the means of communication of euscals constitute the State-wide, European, or worldly media which present the presence of EAE. And this must be added to all the limits the internet has broken, the contents made at any point in the world that can be seen, received, and heard on any medium. That's the reality we live in, complex, and harder to regulate. And if we are speaking of EIB's control, which is a public extension, it has three organs of continuing and control, which you know as well as I do. I believe in this complex situation we live in, and more than my opinion, and I think it's the opinion of the Euskal Council, the production of FEEO's hearers, it doesn't contribute to the complex situation we live in, in itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-25.u137	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. At one o'clock in the afternoon the meeting ended at thirty.
