ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the entire Union. First point in theme list: "Suspectation of the Natural Environmental Committee, Environmental and Environmental Committee, made on a bill of law on the maintenance of the Eucharistic Sea. Discipline and final resolution. Mrs. Gaddy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. We have a large Eukadin bidibertsity on account of our geographical position; we are in a climate transition between the Mediterranean and the Atlantic, the coast and the mountain. Less than 1% of the territory of the European Union, it takes about 35% of the European interests, of the 21st and flora species of fauna. Among these are the 14 habitats and four species which are important to the continent and interested in priority. We have about 55 parts of nature 2000 network, and there are some of the most significant of the euscal family species. We have a natural wealth, and today, in this Eusucian parliament, a regulation of this kind, which is to be discussed, was indispensable. The text that has been brought to vote is to protect, to preserve, to preserve, to manage, to employ, to restore, and to improve. It was a precursor Basque in the environmental legislation with the laws adopted in 1994 and 1998. Nevertheless, important improvements of laws derived from the example of Europe have been given, especially from 2000, and the time has come to update the district of the Euscal law. And besides, this new law agrees with the permanent development of the United Nations and with the 2030 Country Age of Basque. Thus the bill of law collects from an integral concept of the universe of nature, from an integral point of view, a biological and geological nature, a collection of goods, resources, and services. Environmental, landscape... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] He collects a collection of natural advantages and services, connected with biological and geological differences, the landscape of environments, science, or culture with essential values, and various resources which he considers health and well-being of men, and connects social and economic development. The law project defines the typeology of wild species and protected zones, of which nature can be within and outside the net of Europe. And he's counting on other international tools too. It also refers to the concept of the green infrastructure. A new concept, in a sense, between natural and natural areas, in order to refer to positions, to the end of linking the set of protected fields, to avoid isolated areas with ecological values. Thus it is that space which is specifically protected, forgives, and extends on to the whole region, and even to the adjoining geographical regions. On the other hand, it is the object of the law to simplify the administration of the administration, in order to facilitate the co-ordination of public administrations in the administration of Eukadin nature. Moreover, he hopes to create a system of information about the Euscadian nature, which will be the site of a technical and scientific knowledge shared between all the institutions of Natural Nature. One of the main developments in this draft law on the conservation of the natural heritage of Euskadi is integration with climate change policies. Ambitious commitments have recently been made at COP26 in Glasgow. And there is an international consensus that the two biggest challenges facing humanity right now are halting the loss of biodiversity and combating climate change. Our well-being and that of future generations depend on the conservation of healthy ecosystems that help regulate floods, absorb greenhouse gases and protect us from adverse weather events and future pandemics. In this sense, the present rule seeks to strengthen the capacity of natural heritage and, especially, forests to absorb CO 2 - No, no, no, Precisely, at a time when Euskadi's priority is to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, this law of conservation of natural heritage offers us the opportunity to row in that direction. Recovering forests, soils and wetlands is key to achieving the set climate change mitigation targets. In addition, we need to combine natural heritage conservation with economic and social development, and specifically how the preservation of natural spaces can generate business niches in circular economy and bioeconomy or the agricultural sector, in addition to the benefits associated with people's health and well-being. The law will go on with the Jeltist Party and the Socialist Party vote for the two teams of the Basque Party, including EH Collect and the votes for the PPC American teams. Since we've been preparing this law and having been able to digest it for a long time, we've put in corrections the Jest Party and Social Party Socialists. In addition to improving and illuminating certain aspects of the proposed text, corrections are made in a kind of genus language. Terminology adapts. The jurisdictions of different administrations are defined. Many mistakes are corrected in the previous text, and some innovations arise, such as banking for the preservation of nature, and the means of improvement in the loss of biodysis by climate changes are also introduced, and it is even anticipated to protect the landscape. EH Collect made a total of 109 corrections. And of these, 47 have been accepted and we have made a deal to change another 30 through transactions. With this will of agreement, a system of coordination of nature's fortune is formed for a consultation between the hands of the Esupal Autonomy, and also for a technical co-worker. The content of the schemes of preservation and re-establishment are developed in order to preserve the inhabitants which are in danger of desertion. Or the Euscataard budget will also guarantee that they will have the resources and credits that tend to the finances for the purposes of this law. Between Popular Party-Ciudadans, 41 of the 89 corrections they introduced, have been accepted. And six more corrections have been arranged within the negotiational scope, especially in order to improve the prescribed parties. As for the Podemus team together, we express a certain despair of ours, because in the process of actually surviving the true rate of justice, there is no approach to such an agreement. I therefore wish to thank all the members of this legislature for the will you have shown for negotiation and alliance, and to congratulate them on the fact that we all have a better law. I will briefly mention the most important changes that have taken place and to what elements of the law they refer. And with this I would end my intervention. Firstly, with regard to the statement of reasons, it has been drafted in a more orderly and descriptive way of the content of what the law is going to be, explaining the reasons why this new legal framework of a law on natural heritage is needed in Euskadi. With regard to this relationship, natural heritage and climate change, article 9 has been drafted more precisely for the actions to be carried out by public administrations, in order to mitigate climate change and preserve the natural heritage in order to adapt to that change. In addition, the Environmental Advisory Council is entrusted with functions in relation to the conservation of natural heritage. And to highlight, among other things, that it is pointed out, to inform the instruments of planning and management of the protected spaces of the natural heritage during its phase of elaboration or modification, according to the prescriptions of this law. In addition, in the area of natural heritage and its planning, the planning instruments provided for in the law are designed following the amendments that have been introduced, shaping in a more precise way their content and approval procedure also... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... the law is designed after the amendments that have been introduced, setting out in a more precise way their content and approval procedure as well as the hierarchical relationship that exists between the instruments that have been cited. After accepting an amendment from EH Bildu it is established that the Basque Strategy for the Conservation of Natural Heritage will establish the objectives, guidelines and actions necessary to guide and coordinate the policies of the different public administrations with competence in the autonomous territory of Euskadi. With regard to the monitoring, inspection and sanctioning regime, a more appropriate, precise drafting of the duties to be performed by the inspection staff in order to ensure the fulfilment of the objectives of this Act has been carried out and the establishment of offences has been reordered, so that we avoid overlaps that could occur between more serious, serious and minor offences and, in addition, the competent bodies are facilitated by the application of this sanctioning regime. The Natural Heritage Coordination Commission has also been simplified in terms of its description and the functions that are detailed following an amendment also fucked with EH Bildu. And it is a consultative and cooperative body that will regulate... which will be regulated – sorry – through an internal regulation. To this end, it is expressly stated that it is an advisory body for technical cooperation between the competent administrations of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Finally, recall that this is a law consisting of 109 articles, set out in seven titles, with five additional provisions, six transitional provisions, two derogatory provisions and three final provisions. On my side, that's all. And again, thanks be to all the groups because today we will have this law working, and for our goods, because it will be better for our nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Myst. Mrs Martínnez mustn't speak. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadans, Mrs. Larrea, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u3	Good morning. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Look, first of all, I want to thank Mr... Mr Telleria's willingness to admit and fuck our amendments, which have been collected by a large majority. This is because when we agree on the need to merge a text that will improve the care and maintenance of our biodiversity and our natural heritage, we finally get a law with a clarifying text so that those who have to apply it will do so in a simpler way. We began the reading of the draft knowing that there were minimums that we wanted this law to collect. And so it has been. I therefore announce, as the Counsellor has already announced, that we will vote in favour of the opinion. Saving one of the amendments that is important to us, which was the maintenance of the Naturzaintza as Advisory Council for the Conservation of Natural Heritage in the Basque Country in article 12 of this law. We have influenced the drafting to improve the understanding of the text, but also in most of its articles, increasing the level of protection of our nature and biodiversity in the Basque Country. We have influenced the protection of wild species, the karst systems, the protection of the natural environment from urban planning. Finally, we are satisfied that we have influenced this text necessary for the care of our nature. What created us a little bit of doubt was whether it is important to have a sanctioning regime when the people who are going to apply it, our agents, have the necessary training to be able to apply it and understand what happens in the natural environment when one of the articles of this law is not complied with. And yet, also the fear that we have is that this law is supposed to go in a pack with that of Environmental Administration and is known to all the inconvenience that generates this other project. Therefore, we hope that this law that we will pass today on the protection of the natural environment will not be distorted by the text of the Environmental Law that is surely being processed at this time and will surely be passed shortly. I do not want to add anything else because everything has already been said in your first speech. We say that it is a good law that will preserve the natural heritage and that will help us to be more resilient to climate change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Miss Hatage, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u5	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. It is two weeks since Glasgow's climate has been completed, and the agreements obtained in it, not only from bonders, can be said to be of little efficiency, but at least to be able to really face the climate crisis. And we have such a feeling in front of this law that will be approved today. I mean, he doesn't answer the environmental crisis properly, and that he's born dead because he's full of legal voids and he's pretty soon forcing anyone to do it. The principal end of this law may be said to be, that it is by this means, that there is no hindrance to the economical activity which may be given, whether they be given or given in the protected zones of the Mediterranean. And all this also leads us to neglect the laws and ends of the environment, which are sometimes derived from Europe. We believe that this law has but little change, if we compare it with that which has preceded it. Hyperburoccracy, the same decoration between the townships, the forum aldudi, and the Basque Government. And besides, he has very simple ends, and many of the plans that are necessary for them have no clear time. It must be said that most of the acceptable corrections to the original project are relatively superficial and does not apply any important changes. We file 67 corrections. [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... That most of the corrections are fairly superficial and do not apply any important changes. We introduced 67 corrections from which we wanted to keep twelve, especially in order to negotiate with the government. But it wasn't possible. None of these were accepted. Of these I would like to bring here a few of the twelve, here explain. And thus, and at the same time, I would explain at the same time the cause of a vote against our law. These are some of the amendments that we tabled and that have not been accepted. Our Amendment No 6 refers to voluntary agreements and declarations of public interest. But the truth is that it offers us, they leave us quite a lot of doubt as to its viability. We do not really know, because it is not well spelled out in the law, whether the declaration of public utility will be applied whenever one forestry activity or another goes against achieving the objectives of this law, it is not known, because what has been done so far is asking permission to restore, and when the landowner has said that no, well, the project is abandoned and nothing is done. It is therefore of little use if we look at what has been done so far. In our Amendment No 25 we intended to ban certain installations and activities in protected areas. Given the lack of management, and even more so when the renewable energy STP might not be approved until the year 23, we believe that it is necessary to establish exclusion zones or prohibitions to certain economic activities as soon as possible when they are located in protected natural areas. Because it would be paradoxical that an area declared to be protected on the basis of scientific studies, then after an environmental impact statement is allowed the installation of wind farms or a gas well in the middle of an area of a protected space. And this is also confirmed by the statements not favorable to the wind farms of Iturrieta or Arkamo, and it is a pointless, moreover, that a bureaucratic burden... is a bureaucratic burden for administrations. Therefore, our amendment proposes to directly prohibit certain activities or installations in protected natural areas, although sustainable traditional activities or other activities that cannot be placed anywhere else should be allowed. With our Amendment No 26, what we propose is for 2040 to reduce 100% of pines and eucalyptus trees in protected natural areas and by 70% in the rest of the areas, in addition to promoting a forest bioeconomy not based on logging. However, it has been preferred to promote an economic activity that we believe is unsustainable with pines and eucalyptus that dry the soil, reduce biodiversity and are a focus of pests and fires. Then it is not worth regretting if misfortunes occur. 27. We propose that the removal of glossous and other physatian products in protected zones of correction. It is true that these products are not officially forbidden, but it is well known that they are extremely injurious to environmental conditions and to its biodybert. The government says it's going to be using the Glyphosat or continue. 29. We propose to create Euscalal Agency in the Biodibertsity of rectification. The interrogators, the woodkeepers, the experts, all of us tell us that there is lack of co-ordination in the commissions and that there is a chaos of handcuffing between different Esscal institutions. And this bill of laws is followed by this slow and uncorruptible model, and we have different and efficient criteria as follows. It is strange here, it must be said, to leave the proposal of the EH collected still more in the hands of the patricians. We believe that the more we divide, the more difficult is the co-ordination. And we think the environment requires an integral view of the country. In this sense we propose the Euskal Agency of Bidibertsity, the protected site, and the planning, management, and watchfulness of its biodybertsity. Amendment No 34 is one of many amendments that we have tabled because of the failure to establish dates for the start and approval of a number of management instruments that are covered by the law. For example, once a natural resources management plan is initiated, it may remain in a drawer for years and not be approved. This is precisely the case with the Vitoria Mountain Management Plan, which was frozen so as not to have to limit works such as the passage of the TAV or possible gas wells. The same applies to the Threatened Species Management Plan, which does not have specific deadlines for initiating or approving it, such as the Wolf Management Plan. That is why we say, because of this lack of timescales, that the instruments should be put into practice.If they are foreseen, we say that this law is born dead. The Government could declare the start of a plan, but never approve it, and a law with sufficient legal loopholes to allow it to fail to comply with it is created. Similarly, in Amendment No 53 we wanted to contrast the various land management policies being implemented by the Basque Government. In the budgets of the 22nd, for example, there is an item of 40 million to Sprilur for the purchase and adaptation of industrial soil. Well, for soil, for protected and degraded spaces, there is no similar figure. To try to reach voluntary agreements with the holders, to give financial aid, to grant subsidies to associations, why not apply this same policy of buying land with public funds, why not apply this same policy that they have with the industrial soil and buy and adapt and restore degraded protected areas, which is what we wanted with our amendment. Finally, 56. By correction, we have made a proposition which we have already extended at other times, and which has something to do with the opening of personal environmental impeachment and resource. We're also short of the Edge Environment Unit, which is within the edge of the border. [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... The unit is also wantful, and it's within the edge. The Prosecutor himself accused and accused the Basque Government. And low control is known to make economic activities the most profitable, even if the environment is at stake, that's what it's doing. For this reason we believe that the bill which has been introduced here, and the corrections which have been received, is not a good law. And that its chief object is not to protect the environment, and that must be its chief end and its central aim, but that it is not to impose too much obstacle on economic activity. For this reason, as I say, we think it a bad law, and our position will be contrary to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u7	Madame Chair, President, Vice Presidents, good morning to all of you. Today we bring them to vote for the maintenance of the Euscadian family laws. In the preceding legislation the law began with the firm impulse of the socialist chief of the Arrians. As in so many laws as we have been led by the Socialists, with the desire to obtain the greatest harmony, it is a law created with the will of association, in which all the members of the community have been placed, knowledge, courage, agreement, and soul. A law that is born, as I say, like so many laws that we socialists have promoted, with the will to agree, with the desire to achieve the widest possible consensus, in which we have all put knowledge, treasure, agreement and soul. I would also like to take this opportunity to greet and welcome this plenary, this room, Mrs Elena Moreno, a true soul mater of this law during her stage as Vice-Councillor for the Environment. I would also like to greet those who have been working from the zero minute on this project, Mr Aitor Zulueta and Mr Daniel Senderos, who are also here today. A legislative process that has counted, from those first steps before the drafting, with the participation of the representation of the three deputies, Association of Basque Municipalities Eudel, Basque Network of Municipalities towards Sustainability Udalsarea 2030. More than 90 people from different administrations and organizations in the socio-economic fabric, as well as from civil society. Preliminary draft which dealt with more than 700 allegations during the period of public participation. During the parliamentary process, more than 300 amendments have been tabled, of which more than 200 have been admitted or had sex. In this way, it has been intended to draw up a text with the greatest possible degree of co-creation, understanding that the complex subjects in the protection of natural heritage are. They open up scenarios of great interdependence in which success can only be achieved through cooperation and, of course, never since conflict or confrontation. We are facing a law which will protect the majority of this Chamber. We've all found our place in this vast deal. What the Socialist Euscalists had encouraged in the legislation of the United States was the Jest Party, who in this legislation had received the testimony of the transfer, but also the EH Collect, or the Popular-Ciudadans. All who have come to work with their wills have found their place. I said it on the commission. This is a law in which all those people and groups who have come with desire and willingness to work have found their place. A law that reflects the majority sensitivity of Basque society in all matters pertaining to the protection of our natural heritage. It has been 27 years since the adoption of the Basque Country Nature Conservation Act 1994. Three decades in which the profound silence that has in our culture the sensitivity for the protection of our natural heritage has been highlighted. In the course of these three decades it has been shown that our culture has a profound sensibility to the protection of natural inheritance. However, the law confessed its progress when nearly three decades have passed since it was admitted, the world has continued to move on. The RATIONal Relebo has not only strengthened the commitment to the environment, but has led it to the center of political debate. The 1994 Act is a firm foundation on which Basque environmental policies have begun to be built, but we need to update it to the new realities. We must leave behind the new challenges presented to us as a society. The law of 1994 was a strong foundation. We've built up eupscal environmental policies on top of it, but it's necessary to update them to new realities. It is necessary that the new challenges offered to us as society should be received in a new law. That is why the new law reflects the sustainable development goals of the United Nations 2030 Agenda. Goals related to health and well-being, quality education, clean water and sanitation, affordable and clean energy, decent work and economic growth, reduction of inequalities, cities and sustainable communities, climate action, underwater life, life of terrestrial ecosystems and partnership to achieve the goals. Because the present moment not only raises a purely legislative response. According to the report on the global assessment of biodiversity and ecosystems of 2019, 25% of species of flora and fauna are currently threatened, and one million of them are endangered, most of them in this decade. But the natural heritage is not only biodiversity, but also its continent. And so, the same report concludes that 75% of the surface of the continents and 66% of the oceans are altered by anthropogenic action, and 89% of wetlands have been altered or have disappeared. Reasons why it is more than necessary to increase efforts, to any... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... by anthropogenic action, and 89 % of wetlands have been altered or have disappeared. Reasons why it is more than necessary to increase efforts at any scale to preserve the natural heritage. At a time when threats to our natural heritage appear to be multiplying and where citizens look to their institutions for answers and policies that can curb global warming, this Parliament must prove to have the height to take all the necessary decisions. Because there are data that should appeal to our responsibility in this House, such as that in the last study published this month by the Basque Government's Office of Sociological Studies on the attitudes of citizens towards the environment, 20% of the respondents say that they do not know the concept of biodiversity, plus 33% that they have heard about it, but that they do not know what it is. And it is equally noteworthy that this percentage is not directly related to age or gender, territory, social class or level of education. Moreover, although the loss of biodiversity and natural spaces is identified as one of the most important environmental problems for citizens, the fact is that it is placed at a great distance from problems understood as much more pressing for citizens, such as pollution of all kinds. And, curiously, at the same level as the concern for climate change. And only 29% claim to know the Natura 2000 Network, the European Union's most important commitment to biodiversity conservation, to which Euskadi contributes 55 protected areas with an extension of more than 1,500 square kilometres; by 23%, the territory incorporated into the network exceeds the European average of 18%. That the vast majority of the population does not know their existence should cause us to reflect. Finally, I would like to take a look at the thanks chapter. First of all, Mr Telleria of the Basque Nationalist group, who is very much in agreement and who has proved to be once again possessive of inexhaustible reserves of patience and know-how. Mr Otero of the Euskal group Herria Bildu and Mrs Larrea of the People's PartyCitizens thank you for the will of agreement shown from the first moment, for having been able to put the general good before the partisan strategies, for understanding that in the great agreements nobody loses and everyone wins. Ortega and Gasset said that effort is only effort when it starts to hurt. Well, the defence of natural heritage through this law that we pass today and through our personal commitment as a society must hurt us if necessary. Because – and I end by quoting the naturalist Edward Abbey – "Nature is not a luxury, but a necessity of the human spirit, as necessary as water or good bread". That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u8	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u9	Thank you, ma'am. I take advantage of it, too, to say good-bye. Ladies and Moreno, Mr. and Mrs. Zulut, the first steps of this law are also yours, and there acceptance. I'm just trying to get a little bit of a texture that will be approved today of the law for the preservation of the natural press, because I think it's in a very special context. We've been talking a lot about climates lately, but beyond the climate business, we've often said that we've had very important challenges connected with this vast area of environment, climate, energy, and trinomium. Not just climate, it's biiodivisity, it's the state of fertile soil, it's the problems of my neurotic transition, it's the necessity for the maintenance of the zones, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., and so on. The sum of all this leads us to talk to us in a general ecological crisis, and we believe that we are in a great deal of need to deal with everything. And we have to open the entire tool box to face the ecological crisis, and we must adapt our politics, our plans, the rules, and the laws as we do today. That's our context, and this is where the Basque Country wants to be an active part. And this renewal of the instruments that are being given during these years, whether of energy or of climate plans or laws, whether it be the plans of the renewing lands, or whether new and renewed laws, are, as today, a sphere of prior influence. And that's why we're working on every field and area carefully and with great mimo. That's right, trying to improve each subject with its own instrument. Being conscious, in any case, there will not be a single instrument in this urgent situation that will overcome the ecological crisis. And being conscious, that the agreement in some laws, plans, or politics does not only guarantee the preservation of the natural world, and that we do not delete in itself all the threats which increase the ecological crisis, nor, as we see in the law of the Environment Administration, our profound discords in order to organise this vast area. Our commitment is to give us our best plan by law, by rule, by plan, to study and contribute in detail. In any case, we are here to renew the agreements which have been concluded at the present day under the law of the preservation of the laws of nature, and it seems to me that the good news is good. We said from the beginning about the law or the tramitation of the law, that it was necessary to renew the law of the maintenance of the province of nature, it was old, and many of the regulators of enterprises which have been in the past decades demanded a new text. But we agreed that it was a kind of text that we could start working. From that point on, we introduced more than 100 amendments to work, we thought, after strict action, and contacted the Government to see what they were doing. At once, from the first meeting, we realized that the government was ready to listen to this case. And I must confess, from that point on, work has been rather easy, but rather easy. Because from the beginning, too, we've been told from the beginning that our contribution would improve the text, and almost without discussion, we've been admitted to almost 50 amendments, and then 30 more... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... it was agreed that our contribution would improve the text, and almost without discussion, we were admitted to almost 50 adders, and afterwards we got another 30 half-way text, which almost gave way to our 80 amendments. And it must also be confessed, that if the parliamentary arithmetic did not compel him to have a consistent text. And I think that should show you a way. It's not the usual thing, but I think this path is politically and socially fertile. This law being taken up with the text of the law, and in short, as I said at first, only a part of the many tools. And you don't have to ask him any more than you can give him. The effective preservation of the property of nature requires other laws, other special policies, other instruments of planning. But this text of the law is a whale. The text to be accepted today orders, improves, and improves what was before. I'm not dedicating the law. A few things have been said. I'm going to confine myself in a short place where the hand of the Basque People can be seen pointing at. I'll try briefly to explain what our quantum contributions have been to us, even above them. And I think I can say, by the influence of our influence, that at first the law project and it says that different institutions must be coordinated, that no organ is formed in the original text, and now the co-ordination committee for the inheritance of nature is formed, that the three diputations and Eudel will be involved. We've even managed to get rid of the incentives that were against the conservation. In our opinion, we have also managed to establish a fundamental system of information, as a public character, and as an official record. We've also got the code of the law to improve the ecological corridors or the ecological corridors. He was looking ahead in the text, but now we'll look back. Neither were they in the former law. So it was a new story. And in the original text of the law, in the project, they were named, but the plans of the management were not regulated. And now they're regulated. And besides, not only the habituations of European interest, but also the habituations of the district. And we think that's a quantum contribution, too. And the statement of public utility re-establishs itself in the protected zones of nature, which was surprising if they were present in the previous law and did not come in the original text, and it re-entered it. And finally, but I think it's a quantum matter, too, we've been able to get prominent improvements into the finances. We didn't want them to be 100%. We wanted to establish a fund for the preservation of the natural legacy. And we've made a kind of half-way commitment through which a yearly budget will have the minimum amount of natural inheritance, well, extra game, rate, fine, and all of it. Not only a guarantee of money, but a law demands that organic structure, i.e., also personal, should be adapted to the Lake, because it seems to us that there are few people in the business of preserving their estates. We need to get this thing up. And, lastly, we must also say that the section of punishment is not only our business, but that it has been fully restored from original text. And now it's much better. Where did we stop short? Where were the improvements? It was necessary that the preservation of natural inheritance should be prior to the cultivation of lands and the manufactures of cities for us. We've got a sort of middle-way, but we think we've stopped there short. Even about the paper of the essays, we think a little more hands could be introduced around his duties. And there he wasn't going to go in there. It must also be confessed that the question of jurisdiction is somewhat exaggerated. And it seems to us that around the impacts, too, we've stopped a bit short. We believe that we should perform special impacts of environments on protected zones of nature. And this is not reflected in this law. We're on our way to the Environment Administration Act. He doesn't reflect as much as he wants, but it seems to us that since the law entered this case, it has obviously improved very much. Then... Now the second part is coming. And I look directly at Mrs. Tapia. We got a law project. I think we've improved a great deal among all of us, but now there's a lot of work coming out of here to follow this law. And now, I'm sure it's the leading part in the development of this law. That is to say, the coordination committee is to be formed, developed, developed information systems, accepted the strategy of preservation of nature, accepted the strategy of the green infrastructure, developed the ecological corridor, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. He sets a lot of work. So it's in your hands, hard work. And we'll have control over the filling level from now on. And we'll be there. Don't hesitate. I, to finish, I want to end up with some gratitude. On the one hand, it has been asserted that Louisja Telleria, who has already been in the interlocutation, must be admitted to decency and elasticity. And also to Amaia Barredo, the sub-classor, because his personal implications have been in order to get to these agreements and to be flexibility. And let me finish looking at the house, because the Basque Country has been working for a long time as Secretary of Environmentals, and I'd like to thank the hard-working members. And especially, I believe, that the Mayor of the Sound, the Mayor of which the leading part has been played, is the author of the whole business, and is a great expert fellow in these matters. I believe, from his great experience and work, that this law is much better. And now all this is for us to do what we agreed to do here. Oh, man, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u10	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, the word is yours. [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... Sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u11	The head of the table, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, all good days. This law replaces 1994. This law spoke gravely of protecting Eukadin' nature. And he opened the way to protect space and species. What nature means is, what it is worth, and how it is connected with man with it. So, here much has changed in nature and human thought and everything indicates in the face of catastrophes that we are better in nature and our thought and sensitivity. This law is another step forward. Our party wishes to thank the rest of our team for the pleasant and co-working atmosphere we have been able to cultivate, and to those who have shown us the greatest preparation for the agreement we have obtained. No one has ever imposed a text to go build. This text, no doubt, progresss over what is already in force, and opens new roads. And I at the same time appreciate the thanks. And without getting colored I do it with humility, but especially because I have been able to work with the vice-counsel of Environment Amaia Barredo, whom I greet. And it's also true that technical advisors from the groups have collaborated, especially Iñaki Aizpuru, with whom he also took me..., I have a great friendship and I think it has been a very nice work that I will remember for a long time for the nature with which we have worked. Just remember that 323 amendments were tabled to this law and nine are being debated in this plenary today; that is, a great deal has been done. I must also acknowledge that I regret not having reached an agreement with Elkarrekin. We can, mainly because the amendments tabled, basically two, have not been able to conclude on something in which we would all feel comfortable. When these two amendments were tabled within two days of the expiry of the deadline for amendments such as GNP, they lost their value as amendments to be discussed in the paper and moved to another scenario that made them very difficult to deal with. On the one hand, the creation of the Basque Biodiversity Agency, which exclusively says that it will assume regulatory and management functions of everything related to this law. That is, everything that makes government more deputies. From there he speaks only in generic that it can be done by order of management transfer of declaration of competences, nobody knows. And that a law creates doubts is the worst thing that can happen to a law. If we go to GNP we find more reasons and it seems that they are due to possible decoordinations. I do not doubt that they will occur as in so many other things, even within our own parliamentary groups, but that does not lead us to create a parliamentary group agency, but to deepen internally to solve problems or minimize them. At the same time you are not aware that there are services of four institutions, government and three deputies, which have applied in this field for 40 years, following faithfully the competent division that the LTH made in this matter. Do you think that breaking down the LTH without further ado and years of experience by putting it all together in a new mega agency will make the decoordinations go away? In the debate we have analysed different solutions to address an improvement of this coordination, since the proposal for (?) repeat Naturzaintza, as previously defended by Citizens-PP, until which it has been definitively formulated, to create a coordination council in which the four institutions involved and how many technicians are considered appropriate. We think that's the best way to solve the dysfunctions. Organizations that handle this law (... ) Getting direct decodinations. The other amendment in another GNP says that the law itself defines which infrastructures can be located in each of the spaces to be protected and which are not. This law provides that when a space is indicated as being capable of protecting, a prior order of the space must be made. Such ordination shall indicate the (?) It is not the same as a reserve area with strict protection as areas in need of lesser protection, or those of the Natura 2000 network itself, when the Community directive itself states that it is a question of seeking rules allowing human beings to live together with nature, because we are talking about active protection, not passive conservation. There is also an amendment on forestry in which there was a surprising single article, which dismantles the entire forest policy of more than 80 years ago from this country and creates a new one with simplicity, which says that by 2040 70% of the forest species that you without any scientific rigour classify as invaders must have disappeared. Listed in which include eucalyptus, radiata pine, douglas fir. Can one thing be decided from this point of view in an amendment to a single article of this law?, where is scientific knowledge?, where is that which you ask so much to speak with society, with the sector involved, with foresters or with citizens? And then there is his amendment with which they prohibit preventively, nice legal concept, prohibit preventively, plant protection and biocidal products that are prohibited. So far we agree, it is obvious, if they are prohibited, they are prohibited, neither preventively nor anything, they are prohibited. But then they say more, they also want to ban others, despite not being prohibited, and they say so, if there is broad scientific consensus to be toxic or harmful. What legal concept is broad scientific consensus? I don't know, where... I'd like to know where they studied biology or law. Hori da zuek eta guk maintainen ditugun zuzenketen laburpena. And already, by philosophy for a while, of all this debate of the law I have again found that homo sapiens gives the same in its developmental or protectionist aspects, it remains the permanent intervener in a dynamic balance, deciding what to do. Some suppose the inexhaustibility of nature, others the need to restore lost balances, deciding what those balances are. In both cases they impose lines of thought. Some call them ecocapitalism and ecosocialism, but it is only anthropocentrism, always, man as a center of decision-making about the rest of the living world. And even if someone doesn't see it that way... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... ecocapitalism and ecosocialism. But it is only anthropocentrism, always, man as the center of decision-making about the rest of the living world. And even if someone doesn't see it that way, they know I'm not going to discuss it. It's a finding. That's right, because there's no other one left. To decide to protect nature, and how, is an exclusively human decision. No one else can do it. Will the (will we approach?) One way or another, but we all act as anthropocentrists in the face of nature. And although this is irrefutable, sometimes it costs me more and more, because I like what Maeterlinck said more than "nature doesn't need happiness." Many times you have to leave her alone. That's right, we've tried, at least me, not to discuss it in an impostor way. An attempt by those full of enlightened despotism who claim, from theoretical assumptions, to impose on the rural world to whom they try to irresponsibly preserve space, its vital space. Space that, by the way, if we ever look at it to preserve it, it was because it was safe from the (...) urban; and curiously, from the past, it was always surrounded by rural people. That is why I will always flee from those who – and these abound – pontificate over nature. Because it cannot be done, because, as Einstein said, "Nature is constituted in such a way that it is experimentally impossible to determine its movements." In short, it is complex to legislate on nature. But I will always believe that it must be approached with the pretension of seeking the balance between, on the one hand, the need that human beings have to claim their own space in the natural environment, which they share with millions of other species, but which needs to be sustained, and, on the other, the demand to address it, leaving nature their space and time to recover, restore and rebalance. As it has been doing dynamically for billions of years, it has been shaped from its origin in its permanent adaptation to all foreseeable changes or not. And let us never forget that what needs to be done is to protect it, because keeping it is too sclerotic for what continues to progress and progress. And I end with a quote from whom I consider, at least for myself, the great master of ecology, Dr Margalef, who in his work between thermodynamics and the game reflected: "Thinking that man is part of nature must stimulate his cooperative action with it. But the important thing is to keep an open attitude, trying to avoid the momentary pressures of fashion ideologies. In reality, the most militant ideologies lie a little outside ecological consideration, because they tend to see man as something far apart from nature, with the destiny of being its owner or executioner. Finally, the protection of nature must be done by thinking about it without leaving aside a species like Homo Sapiens, which is also part of biodiversity, even if it is the species that most deteriorates it." This, in essence, is a law to protect us from our own activities, but not to exclude us and us from it. Because we have a unique heritage that we must continue to protect among all. And this law represents one more step in the right direction and gives us a more secure framework to protect nature. But that framework will not work unless we become aware of our responsibility. Our daily activity has a permanent effect, more powerful than that of any other species on the natural environment. And this law will not serve much if we are not supportive and aware that this is a job for all of us and for all of biodiversity. To say this, I want to thank them again for the work done to all the teams, to get such a law out of the harsher discussions by the effort we made together. And I am sure that it will be as useful as we approve of this new law, and that it will endure for ever, though in the future we hope that such a law should not be necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u12	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. The Basque popular doesn't have to speak. Together Podemos-Nozzer, ma'am, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u13	Thanks again, ma'am. After listening to the sects on which you've accepted this law of the Euskadical system of nature's preservation, I think of Glasgow as the summit of Glasgow again. On this summit, I think, there were two prominent parties, some of whom were regarded as the protection of the environment, and from one point to the center of economic activity. And I believe that this difference is here reflected again. And if this be any thing that can be foreseen by principles, from the sects which support the Government, I must say, that it is strange and surprising that we should be placed in this part of EH Collect. For we do not believe that the corrections which are really admitted are subject to this side of the law. And the corrections that are accepted are not profound, I dare say. You defend a few here, you mention them, and I'd like to bring some here. On the one hand, you've talked about sobre la Comision de Coordinción, la creacion de la Coordinción de Coordinción, because this has something to do with our proposal, the agency. Of course, the Coordinating Committee on Natural Heritage is an advisory committee, first of all. Okay, okay. It is also clear, however, that the Environment Advisory Council already exists, and one of its functions is precisely to promote and support coordination between the different administrations for greater protection of the natural heritage. That is to say, it does not seem that this coordinating committee is going to bring much new news with regard to what already exists. And by the way, I would also like to say in this regard to Mr Tellería, who is also surprised at the defence in excess of the Historical Territories Act as a barrier to the creation of a biodiversity agency, which from our perspective could end this discoordination. And yet, then through the law... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... of the Historical Territories Act as a barrier to the creation of a biodiversity agency that, from our perspective, could end this uncoordination. And yet, then through the Environmental Administration Act, well, we are charging ourselves with all the jurisdictional distribution that affects municipalities through the (PGI?)). It's amazing. Another of the measures, others of the amendments that seem to make, in the opinion of EH Bildu, acceptable, this bill has to do with the funds and fiscal measures for environmental protection measures. Well, I don't know if – this should be talked about – if it's quantified what revenue we're talking about. But, in any case, regardless of how much these revenues are, the problem of restoration is not the funds, but that most of the protected spaces are privately owned and are not generally likely to allow restoration projects on their land. So, we have already commented earlier that in protected spaces we do not have a purchase model like, for example, for the Sprilur. Then, if we do not have the territory, if the territory is not in public hands, it will hardly be possible to carry out restoration tasks. With regard to the impulse of ecological corridors, the draft law has already... submitted by the Government, in its articles 27 or 28 as well... they did develop aspects of ecological corridors. True, EH Bildu has incorporated certain nuances. We've done it ourselves. One of our amendments on ecological corridors is... the law is in article 28.d, it has been collected, which requires the permeability of the most conflictive areas due to frequent abuse of the fauna. We are pleased that this amendment has been incorporated into the law. But the truth is that we do not consider that this change substantially changes the law and does not shift the focus of protection and interest from the law of economic activity to the protection of the environment, which should, as I say, be the main focus of this law. Therefore, for all this, I say, I have already announced earlier, we will vote against this law. And it seems to us that we have missed an opportunity to strengthen the perspective of environmental protection through this law in favour of precisely what had to be what was in front of, which is economic activity without control and without barriers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists don't have to speak. I want you to collect EH, Mr. Otero.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u15	I'm sorry, but I didn't mean to start again, but all the time you're looking for me, Mrs. Hatsy. Well, ya esta, you found me. All right, yes, your plan is to find a difference in this law or in these laws, to look into a specific political area, to get a green flag. Okay. Vega, the flag was green for you. I prefer a little with detail and detail, and a yard or so each plan, try to improve every law, every rule, rather than the flag. So if that's the contest, the champions. I don't have a problem. I mean, you put up with so many repentances, some have been admitted to you, and others you knew from the beginning what would have happened. You know that there is no way of doing this with the administrative structure now existing, which can or would arise within your jurisdiction with the agency of Biodivisity. We ought to shake hands, every one's business, and I think it was clear from the first that we could not go to it. You have been fortified to justify your refusal, whale, o sera, it is your choice, you must see it. I don't think it's the best way to get ahead. We believe in planning territory. Therefore, in the PORNs, in the PRUGs, we shall prevent, or circumscribed, or circumscribed, or circumscribed lands, in the sciences, where we are accustomed to know enough of the general prohibitions which you offer to us, would not go forward, because they would throw us back from the Constitution. And that's been happening to us all over again and again in the environmental area. If, then, you come without any intention of moving, with such plans, you have justified your refusal. But I don't think you make much improvement. Partly, OLC, then about the various administrations, and the details of the structure of this people, I believe that it is a remarkable ignorance that at last takes place in centralism, which is precisely what we are discussing in the law of the Environment Administration. Oh, my God, I want you to centralize your jurisdictions, make general prohibitions come from here and fill it with fun. We don't agree with that point of view. And apart from this, O sea, it is not the same as the province of nature and the ramparts. You want to put a general debecence all the time in the shelters and in the improvement of the natural press for us, and there's the deal. It's not a question of making the shelters sacred because otherwise we're having problems as we're watching the precisaming corridors in recent years. And so we could go on with a thousand accounts. I think, and I know that the parts supported by the government and the government, I know that we have no support for environment, energy, climate, in this vast area, because we have no support, and if there is any protection here, there is some other fertility and some other flexibility. And this will be very quickly seen in other laws. And, well, I'm out, I take advantage of doing another dejada. Mr. Tellegio said that he was right, and I think he had been trying to change some of the policies of the past 80 years with the addition of the general goal you've made around the forest. And Mr. Telllería used to say, "Well puede decir dego de ese..." [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ...two helburu orokor hori ezartzen two amendmentkinarekin. Eta Tellería jaunak esaten zuen "Can you say something about that stalemate in an amendment, can you say something stalemate in an amendment?" I already know that you are not at the forefront of the negotiation of the Environmental Administration Act, but you can say things about that quieter and quieter in an amendment for what we are seeing. That is to say, beware of the limits that we want to attach to the amendments and the implications that they can have, because we are about to blow up the territorial planning of this country through an amendment, precisely. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u16	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u17	Thank you. I have a variety of notes, but, well, I'm gonna... Ma'am... I forgot my last name, forgive me, [[Barres]] Gorrotxategi. Excuse me, but I'm very old now. Look, I've been in... I've had to do the drafting of the 94th Act, and now I'm trying to prove the 2021st, you'll understand that I'm forgetting some last name. But what's always going to be with me is a structural outlawed defender in me of the LTH. But not only because I am a structural defender I have defended this aspect, but because you, in proposing the Basque Biodiversity Agency in the PNL, explain that there was a specific question of a road in Álava, which removed or did not remove exotic species, where road service, hunting and fishing, biodiversity and Ura were linked. Who would have to be at the Biodiversity Agency? Roads, hunting, Ura? They don't clear it up. I mean, it's a totum revolution that doesn't clarify anything at all, and at no point have they made it concrete. That's the reason. And then, when he talks about the fact that the Coordinating Committee that is thought to be useless, of course it serves, because, moreover, to see if we are going to understand one thing, because if they had read correctly the COJUA report of this law, which refers to judgments of the Constitutional Court, the natural environment and the environment are different concepts, different concepts. We tend to try to justify them and unite them, and they're not the same. Not only are they not the same, they are absolutely different. And, therefore, it is good to have a coordinating committee on a matter such as the natural environment, which is far from the environment. And you can try to compare me, both Mr Otero and you, Mrs Gorrotxategi, I do not know what amendment to another law. Look, the other amendment of the other law, in which I am not lied but as a parliamentary group I am involved and therefore support, has nothing to do with an amendment of the LTH, for nothing. And, of course, he doesn't have the silence, of course, that the silence is something hugely subjective, everyone thinks that the silence for him is important. For me, it is much more important that you try to load the entire forest policy at once into one article. That's, that's powerful. Because, deep down, deep down, and now I'm coming back to you, Mrs. Gorrotxategi, you've come to me with Glasgow, and you've tried to simplify Glasgow in whether you're with production or you're with conservation or protection? And that's a mistake. It's to match everything, I said it in my speech. It cannot be dispensed with the homo sapiens, which is part of nature itself, is of its biodiversity. And you've been working as great theorists in trying to define what nature is and where it has to go and what the previous one was. Nature is absolutely dynamic and nobody knows where it's going. I have quoted Einstein's phrase that no one can get into nature, but I will quote another from another great ecologist, George Evelyn Hutchinson, who said that "the ecological niche is an abstract hyperspace." And you're trying to define hyperspace and you're trying to concreteize what's abstract. And that can't be done, it's much more complex than all that. And what we are trying to do is to make economic growth compatible with environmental sustainability, which is possible. Because, of course, carbon was also talked about in Glasgow. Do you want me to give you the list of who sets the most carbon of the different tree species we have in this country? According to a report by the Ministry of Ecological Transition, there is, I'm sorry, there is more eucalyptus, there is less eucalyptus. Let's talk about carbon-fixing. I am not a defender of one kind or another. But ecology evolves in a radically different way than you sometimes try to do. Look, there's a case, I've said it once here, in Valderejo Park, the best forest of wild pine in this country is disappearing because it's being eaten by the sylvatic fagus, the beech. And you know why he's eating it? Because there are no more human beings who have cows. And by the time they don't have cattle, the beech that's super invasive, it's loading one of the best forests on the Iberian Peninsula of wild pine.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u18	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. After the discussion, we'll have a vote. The correction to change the reserved teams of Euscala Popular-Ciudados will be put to the vomit: 89. Correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly the votes are 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters 6; the opponents are 42; the abstations, 25; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u19	So it's not accepted. They're going to be thrown together together by Podemos-Nozzeral corrections reserved by the Animal Groups... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... so it was not accepted. They're going to vote together, together, with Podemos-Netations reserved for the articles of Dictation, 6, 25, 26, 27, 29, 34, 53, and 56. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; supporters 5; the contrary, 48; Abstations, 20; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u20	So they didn't accept it. Next, they vote together, the articles of the judgment which they have been correcting. So, we vote for 12th. the article on one side, and the rest on the other. We can vote for article 12. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters, 61; the contrary, 7. Absencesion, 5; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u21	So it's accepted. After that, we'll vote for the rest of the articles, we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly the votes are 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 67; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u22	They're approved. The other articles of criticism which have not been corrected are put to vote at the same time. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 67; the contrary, 5; the Absences, 1; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u23	They're approved. They are put to the vote, at the same time, the explanation and the name of the law. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 67; the contrary, 5; the Absences, 1; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u24	So they're accepted. And so the law on the preservation of the Eukadicus is approved. Second point on the subject list: "'Observation, region of Aia, Urduña, Oro, Aranvida, and Araculdo, made by poncientia for the recovery of the townships. Discipline and final resolution. Let's start, please, silence. Groups who want to be on the side shift, on the side shift. Mr. Gil's word is the representative of the PP-Ciudados.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u25	Thank you, Madam President, good morning, everyone. Today we complete the process started just over a year ago in the presentation for the reactivation of the Ayala region, in which we have attended 40 appearances that have allowed us to know in depth the situation and the needs of this region. As we have said on other occasions, we believe that it would be appropriate to have a prior diagnosis by regions of the whole of Euskadi that would allow us to prioritise the work of these presentations, rather than govern us by somewhat subjective political criteria. Now we finish that of Ayala, we immediately start that of Bajo Deba and we continue to be unclear that this is going to be the most correct order and if we are not leaving behind other more disadvantaged regions. But focusing on the presentation of the Ayala region, whose report we are voting on today, we have had the opportunity to listen to the different institutions involved, the economic, social actors, the representatives of the different sectors and different associations. We have been attentive to the presentation of your point of view. We have witnessed their agreements and contradictions and we have watered down their sensibilities and their fears and hopes. We have encountered a region that is overly dependent on industrial activity. A mostly tube-based industry, which, due to the process of regeneration, energy renewal, is in crisis not only here, but globally, and which drags on its decline to a multitude of small businesses and with them also jobs and businesses. We have found a region with a deficit of public infrastructure, a little forgotten and a little victim of the centripetal effect of large cities, such as Bilbao or Vitoria. We have met with a region that because of being on horseback between different provinces needs more coordination of the institutions... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... We have encountered a region that, because it is on horseback between different provinces, needs greater coordination of the institutions and that currently manifests a deficit in this regard. And we have met with a region that urgently needs private investment, but does not get it because, from our point of view, five major factors. On the one hand, at a high labour cost. They are objective data, 10% above the average wage and 30% more than the rest of the competitors in the rest of Spain. It is clear that this is a factor that moves away from investment. On the other hand, high labour conflictivity and high absenteeism. And, therefore, an image of a depressed and conflictive zone that discourages any agent interested in investing in the zone. To be added the lack of qualified personnel and the few incentives for the arrival of companies. Realistically, we must say that the situation in the region, from an economic and social point of view, is complicated and that its recovery is not easy. But for that to happen, the following measures that we have brought to the report that is being voted on today seem essential to us. First, we believe that it is necessary to carry out in the short term, with the participation of the main social and economic actors involved, a strategic plan of the region, which analyses all the possible factors of competitiveness of the region, including those that have come to the table, such as tourism, the primary sector, etc., in order to determine which are to be the axes of future development at the economic and social level, and to propose to the institutions a plan of public investments, consistent with the above, with the aim of reactivation of the region. Secondly, we believe that a stable inter-institutional working table must be set up, composed of all the institutions concerned: the Basque Government, the outlaws of Álava and Bizkaia, the Ayala Quadrilla, the Nervion Commonwealth and the municipalities. To coordinate the efforts of all these institutions with a view to the development of the region. Thirdly, we believe that it is necessary to implement and implement a plan to promote entrepreneurship in the region, capable of generating a culture of entrepreneurship among young people, and to design an attractive plan of economic aid and support to increase the number of entrepreneurial initiatives generating employment and wealth in the medium and long term. And fourthly, we believe that a plan of tax incentives, land, economic aid, etc. must be implemented and implemented in collaboration with all the institutions to enable the region to be competitive in attracting companies that generate jobs and wealth. Fifthly, we believe that it is necessary to work on the subject of vocational training. We believe that one of the schools already in existence must be specialized or one must be created, if necessary, dedicated to high-skilled training, capable of responding to the needs for skilled employment of the current enterprises in the region and their future potentials. We have seen that the schools that currently exist are quite well suited to the actual and current needs of the region, of the companies in the region. But they have or will have problems meeting the future needs of new businesses or emerging sectors. We need the qualification of the workforce, the existence of skilled labour to become an attraction for the arrival of new businesses and new sectors. And, sixthly, we believe that in the coming year we must design and implement a picture plan of the region at the level of Euskadi and at the national level that allows to dispel the current negative connotations that the region has, but that are unquestionable, and that promote it, with the aim of attracting tourism, companies, population and investments. Some of these contributions have been included in the report. Others have been modified for integration with contributions from other groups. But we understand that the final report is the result of the integration effort that has been made and we will therefore vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u26	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u27	President. Ladies and gentlemen. The Alavesa region of Ayala and its municipalities, Llodio, Amurrio, Ayala Artziniega, Okendo and the Vizcai municipalities of Orduña, Orozko, Arrankudiaga and Arakaldo have been protagonists during a year of the work of the presentation of this Parliament, to help its economic and social revival. It has been a broad work, with many appearances, up to a total of 40, with many reflections and points of view, with many contributions, with perspectives from the institutional, economic, social, trade union, rural, associative, technical and with a job, which I would define as (...), by parliamentary groups. It has been a year of intense work, with a determined bet to revive the region, improve its economy, infrastructure and opportunities. An analysis of the situation and prospects of industry, employment and vocational training, urban regeneration, housing, environment, infrastructure, sustainable mobility, tourism, culture, trade, rural development, agricultural food. A work that has generated a set of proposals, many of them inspired by the people present, others by the parliamentary groups, with a very high degree of consensus that can be explained by pointing out that of the six amendments tabled by the People's Party of Citizens, the first draft conclusions were agreed three. Of the 37 presented by Elkarrekin Podemos, nine have been agreed. And here it should be added that most of the unaccepted did not affect the proposals and yes to the story or characterization about what happened in the municipalities to get to the current situation. Twenty-eight amendments were tabled by Bildu, and 23 have been agreed. Since the beginning of its work, the paper had been informed of an extraordinary funding of EUR 24 million to invest in the shortest possible time, an investment that will have to take place in the next three months from today. After the work of the paper, the proposal we are making is that the 24 million increase to 26 million and that, within 10 months of today, the institutions involved make a three-year strategic plan to continue economic recovery, with funding from the different budgets. With the proposals of the paper... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... three-year strategic plan to continue economic recovery with funding from different budgets. The paper proposes that EUR 10 million be for the modernisation of industry, the recovery of industrial land and buildings; that EUR 3 million be for employment, vocational training and social cohesion; that EUR 4 million be for urban regeneration, housing and the environment; that EUR 5 million be for infrastructure and sustainable mobility; that EUR 2 million be for tourism, culture and trade; and that another EUR 2 million be for rural development and agricultural food. The paper proposes the creation of an inter-agency working team that acts as a catalyst for regional development and also the fluid relationship with economic, trade union and social organizations. The presentation addresses in the industry technological actions to improve energy efficiency and the contribution to the ecological transition, the creation of a scientific and innovation technology center, respect for the environment, private public collaboration, deployment of broadband throughout the region. In employment, training and social cohesion it is proposed to create a social inclusion table in each municipality, specific attention to the employment of people over 45 and young people, re-training programmes. In vocational training create new degrees and specialisation of one of its centres as a high-skilled training centre. In urban regeneration, housing and the environment are identified actions of integral urban and environmental regeneration, active and passive energy rehabilitation, more promotion of public housing, rented housing and accommodation facilities. Infrastructures and sustainable mobility are concerned with the comprehensive development of the Nervión Linear Park for leisure and sport, the installation of infrastructure for the electric mobility of vehicles, bicycles and skates, the improvement of communications by train and bus. In tourism and culture, a comprehensive offer of resources and events is advanced, the revitalization of existing cultural resources, the enhancement of natural resources for the tourist offer, the enhancement of gastronomic and winery tourism with the Txakoli de Álava, the interconnection of all tourist and cultural resources through a digital platform. In trade, action is being taken to enhance proximity trade, traditional trade, as well as to create synergies between trade, sport, culture, Basque, tourism and leisure. The development of the rural sector and of agricultural food indicate the importance of making generational relief policies, of advancing the digitization of the primary sector, of studying the viability of the Llodio slaughterhouse, as well as of a livestock processing centre. It is also proposed to study the feasibility of a central kitchen. Also, and in general for all actions and projects, it has been proposed to ensure gender equality, transparency, inter-institutional collaboration, the participation of the actors involved, as well as the reinforcement of the image of the region. I want to thank you for the work we have done in the paper. I would like to thank Mr Gil, Mr Angulo, Mrs Fernandez de Betoño and Mrs Zabala for their high level of understanding and cooperation, because, as I said at the beginning, it has indeed been a coral work. The best demonstration of this, after the 40 appearances and their contributions plus the documents that have been handed over to us, is that 71 amendments were tabled by the three political groups. Eight of these 71 amendments come here. Of those eight, two from Bildu and six from Podemos, let us say that they are collected, albeit differently, in the approaches that are made. These are not exactly the proposals made in the paper, but the issues related to trade, rent, train mobility, entrepreneurs, etc. are included in the proposals that are made as a whole. And I believe that this data shows that there has been coral work, that there has been a lot of consensus work, and that I think it should be a good guide and a good example of collaboration between political groups when we have a common goal, which is to revive the Ayala region and the municipalities of Vizcay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u28	Thank you, Mr Price. The representative of the EH team has the word, Mr Fernandez de Bethoño.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u29	Good morning, everyone. As has been said, it has been an intense year, the work of the American Ponce has been intense, 40 scenes have passed more than 60 experts. And the general reading we read from the EH collect is positive. It must be remembered that the origin of this power was the initiative of the EH Collectation, because we saw that the soymnometical data in the Arctic world were disturbing. The local unemployment rate was, for instance, four points above the average of the EAE, in Laudion and Aphurion, in the most popular villages. And we thought that the Parliament could put some of the principal principles on which we could write a development plan, and that was the purpose of creating the Ariana in the Society for the Socenomically Susperence. To say that in the first sketch of the crime, some important ideas were already received from the EH Union, which we had shared and worked with our citizens in the Arctic region. And besides, the draft, we've put 28% of the amendments that we've made, like, 8%, or they've been passed, or, as it were, transferred. And in that sense, our reading is positive, and that's why we vote for it, we vote for the dictation. And from here also thank the representatives of different parties who worked there. What has EH Collect contributed to the crime dictatorship? Well, we have to say that there have been quantum contributions and quantum contributions. I've got to say it among the Quantitantians. [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... "EH Collect to the High Court." Well, we have to say that there have been quantum contributions and quantum contributions. It must be said that there was an investment in the initial draft between 19 and 24 million euros, and that these investments have been raised by our initiative to a total of 24 and 26 million dollars. And among the quantitatives, it may be remarked that the most important business furrows in the industrial line, where a $10 million dollars will become an investment, declared that those millions were not only the industrial soil and manufactured buildings, but also for the aid of modernizing the factory workers. That's one of them. On the other hand, we defended it in the sphere of infrastructure and motion to expand the linear nervous park, north and south, and also to improve the connection between railway stations and local stations, because in some cases there are some problems with safety and accessability. And so that's got it too in the dictatorship. And finally, I'm just saying the most important ones -- as far as the first sector is concerned, a few of our contributions have also been raised, even though some shades have been made, but at least one attempt to re-establish the 4dium slaughterhouse. We'll have a chance to build a little slaughterhouse too. He's going to look into his ideology. And we shall also consider the comparative adaptation of the origin of a central kitchen in a regional level. And these last two projects, if it's positive, will take steps to set them up. The last project seems to us specially strategic, because it links certain phases of the first sector, from which nutritious nutrients are consumed. Tell me, then, that work doesn't end now. We have to make a couple of new plans right now. Plan Suspertion will be distributed on both sides: a collision plan which is to take place within a short period of time, and a strategic plan which will take place for a longer period, three years from now. And this will be the next place for EH collect on top of these projects, to see if the investments we've arranged in this dictatorship, and the lines of work which we've arranged, and above all we'll be on top of this plan, when the projects are in reality, that each public should really be directed to general interest, and, of course, the Sociations of the Arians to resurgentonomy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u30	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. The word is yours, madam.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u31	Chief Branchians, congressmen, good mornings and welcome to the mayors of Syria and... ) I think that even the dinner in Urduña is there. We'll get the results of some years' work today. We have tried to diminish or to mitigate the effects of various crisis, in order to help the workers, the corporations, and the little economy. In a difficult context of the world, in the state of instability, fear, and distrust, we would like to send a message to the region of Aia, and to the provinces of Biscaia, Urduha, Oro, Arancudiga, and the townships of Aracdo. We are engaged in the occupation and the homogeneous development of the country. We want to transmit certainities and options, to devert the economy, to modernize manufactures, to promote new and permanent developments. And we came here with a trained report together. In Pandemia, in September 2020, the Eucarias and the Sociists of Eukal, were registered an initiative to form a positivity. We accepted the proposal unanimously at the whole meeting. It helps us to work in a way that is combined and compromised, with one purpose, that no one should remain defenceless, that no one should stay behind. From December to 30th June, we've heard 40 scenes. After the end of our demonstrations, we took part in the pomp of these groups, of conclusions and proposals which we collected and made for the desktop. In this Brainstoming we made 34 proposals. We used to join these groups, that is, they were the same. And some of these are recorded in report from 34 to 33. With all this, we wrote a report and gave our team our last chance to do a new contribution by rectification. In this last attempt, 71 corrections were introduced, examined, discussed, and voted, from which 20 accepted, and obtained a 15-way division. It must be remarked that all the medium agreed on, or more than 90%, are approved by all groups. And we believe that this is a clear reflection of the need to go on with the large consent of the report of this team. It is noteworthy that the transactions achieved, I dare say that almost all of them, if they are not all, have the agreement of all the groups participating in the presentation, all of them. And we believe that this is a clear reflection of the unity of this working group and of the need for this report to proceed with as much consensus as possible. We've done the whole process with transparency, care, respect, and discretion. Yeah, maybe it's been workin' for a while and we think it's been worth it for hours and days. And for this reason we demand in our report that different institutions should co-ordinately work, as soon as this report is accepted, plan for three months' performance, and that at the most, at the most, in the period of ten months, they should be introduced into the middle term, that is, one of the strategic planats to be made three years. Projects that will be proposed on these two plans will have to be $14, 26 million dollars' investments and the following properties. One, they're gonna have to be a regional view and they're gonna have to work on it. The two realists, the possible, the primary, the collaborators, and the answers. Three, a changer character... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... They must operate and operate on it; two realists, the primary, the collaborators, and the co-resist; they must be three, changeable characters, the mind of economic development, renewing, and highly added value; four, patient, must be an indirect element; five, inclosibility, and the difference of opportunity; six, must be the Genero-view, and must be considered by the process of participation in the region, and must consider the social, economic, and economic institutions of the region. And they must be based on six axes of action: economic recovery and industrial dynamism; employment, social inclusion and training; social cohesion and improvement of public services; urban regeneration, housing and the environment; infrastructure and sustainable mobility; and regional and strategic vision. In order to be able to carry out and carry out these plans, we consider coordination between the various institutions essential. To this end, we propose to create an inter-institutional working table where the Basque Government, the Arab Foreign Ministry, the Bizkaia Foreign Ministry, the Ayala Quadrilla and the new Nervion Commonwealth are represented. Since this is one of the shortcomings we have observed in the various appearances. And this report contains seven lines of work, which I am not going to repeat because they have already been said by my predecessors. This report hopes and hopes that it will really serve to re-activate socio-economically the Aiara region and the neighbouring Vizcay municipalities of Orduña, Orozko, Arakaldo and Arrankudiaga. Municipalities that politically belong to two historical territories, but socially and in practice form a single area: Aiara Nerbioi. The data analyzed show us two realities for a single community. Data that leave us in sight, on the one hand, big differences between very close municipalities and the changing situation that we live month by month. With all this what do I mean? That there's uncertainty, I'd even dare say a little bit of instability. And as I said earlier, we hope that with our work we can contribute to the recovery and improvement of the Aiara Nerbioi area and provide it with greater stability and a future job and life project for its people. We want to send the neighbours of this area a message: their concerns are ours, their fears we understand and we have worked together and united to find a solution for them. The plans that we present today and that must now develop the institutions involved want to be a lever of hope and confidence. There is a future, there are options for change, there is the possibility of reversing the situation and there is a strategy. Our commitment was to move hand in hand, cooperate and design tools to relaunch transformation. We've acted with responsibility and responsibility, and that's how we plan to continue. And therefore I advance that our work has not ended here, which is only the beginning. Now we're going to cross the second stage, and we're going to turn it on to the organizations that have jurisdiction. But we'll be careful, and we'll continue to work carefully on these plans and projects and the organizations, and we'll take care of the control we've got. For this purpose we receive in our report that the whole process is made with transparency, and that all the necessary documents of planning and setting up are published at a time. And finally, thank the teams we've shared in the main, and also the members of the legislature, because the work has been fairly easy and we're going to accept this report with a comprehensive consent. It's a pity that Podemos won't part in this round, so we'll be willing to hear the reason of your vote and the nature of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Since there's no counter shift, the discussion's over and we're gonna vote together with Podemos-Nozzer crews reserved corrections. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 68; in the votes given, 69; in favour 5, on the contrary, 47; abstaining, 17; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u33	So they didn't accept it. They're going to vote together, EH Collect reserved corrections. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 68; votes given, 69; supporters 17. The contrary, 47; Absences, 5; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u34	They weren't allowed. He's going to vote for the power report. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 68; the votes given, 69; the supporters 64; the opponents are 0,0; Absence, 5; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0;
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u35	So the report's accepted. Then there's a vote. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Angulo, representing the Animal Team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u36	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Our position before the conclusions of Aiaraldea's presentation has been that of abstention, because, although it is true that the conclusions of the presentation have been collected many of the issues that the rapporteurs have been exposing, in our opinion, there are also situations that have remained in the tintero and we believe that it could have been more ambitious. First, we have been critical of the budget allocation. Our position was to adapt the budgetary situation to the needs given both in the immediate action plan and in the strategic plan, meeting the needs of the sectors, and in this way to restore the industrial character of the region without putting from the beginning barriers that could... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... to meet the needs of the sectors, and thus to recover the industrial character of the region, without, from the beginning, creating barriers that could limit future actions. We also want to highlight our contributions, as other groups have done, which have been 38 amendments, of which four have been accepted and four have been achieved. We know that some amendments were courageous, such as the expansion of outpatient specialties or the creation of an energy company for the area. But it is true that most of the proposals we put forward were just and consumable, and have generally been rejected. Alongside these, there is one issue that several rapporteurs put on the table and we believe that it has not been sufficiently highlighted. And it is the inequality of treatment that exists between the capital of Vitoria and the municipalities of the region. From my group we have called it Vitoriacentrism, and this has been one of the main causes for which we abstain today. Well, if we don't really make a bet for the region with a change of mentality and seeing the positive values of this one, and if we continue to give preference to Vitoria over other locations when making investments or when proposing administrative solutions, we will only increase the imbalance between the capital and the region. This inequality of treatment and administrative problems are, in our view, one of the roots of the disaffection of the region. There is an imbalance that has been dragging on for years in different aspects, such as infrastructure, media or services. And although some of these aspects have already been reflected in the conclusions and there are positive proposals, these others, there are others, such as the disaffection of the region, has not been collected as clearly as we would have liked. We are also skeptical with the transformative character that these actions can have, for reality has shown us the opposite to this day. But we also want with this step that is being taken here today and with the plans that will be developed to give prosperity to Aiaraldea and its people, as well as Orduña, Orozko, Arrankudiaga and Arakaldo. And also, I do not want to leave this rostrum without thanking the speakers of the presentation, as well as the parliamentarians who have participated in the committee, because the truth is that it has been very constructive and very positive.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u37	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Third point in theme list: "Motion, introduced by the members of the House Farm and Lingrand EH Union, is a quantum evaluation of means to prevent the machista of violence. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Houseland, it's your word to introduce and defend initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u38	Good morning, everyone. Since 2003 we've begun to collect information about women's violence, 112 women and 11 children have been murdered in the Basque Country. Behind this unacceptable number there are names and there are being. Live torn-off projects. And we want to keep them in memory today in the memory of Erika Tabares, Conchi González, Aizion Pujan, María Pilate, and the 75-year-old resident of Mirarri. In this year, too, we would wish to mention that public accusations concerning the abuses made by the males have become common to these murders which are the points of the iceberg. And we want to remember Joaki, the victim of the violence that they tried to fire from his house today, who showed us what reproduction is. However, in the presence of every attack, a feminist movement which seeks to denounce them has gone out into the street. Even today we want to emphasise the work and the necessity of these groups. In the news that Feminist of the Basque Country Council has made today, when the house is not safe, he has used the motto armed with feminism. And it seems to me especially convenient, because it shows us that we have an antidote in front of our grave context. It is for us to build society and houses free, safe and vital. And we have a tool for the guardian community that will bring us all together: feminism. So, besides accusing attacks from this legislature today, we are also responsible for having our confession and admiration for all the feminists who are working to build the free world. It's been work of these long years to take away the mask of violence. It's not about the four fools, it's the result of a solid patriarchal system. The macroticism made of the Machits brought a serious development to the house. One of the two women has suffered a machista of violence throughout his life. In the midst of the young, cases of violence in the net are constantly rising. And the close relationship of sexual abuses against children and violence was revealed to us once more in the past week in Aziain. That's enough. When we were saying that we're going back to normal, we said there's no normal normal for those who suffer violence. We are bound to change this state of ours, beginning with our daily occupations, and in our case, to activate the technical, economic, and political means necessary from the legislature. And today we brought a commitment here. We proposed a thorough analysis of all the resources that are now on board. Let's find out what resources we have. Let's find out how that's happening. That's what women think when they use it. The people working there see their daily routine because we have a great challenge in our hands. When we're expanding the frame of machista violence, when we're trying to identify it as a sysistomic violence beyond couples, these steps must be ready for us to protect and improve the good that is, or to create it for the desktop. Punitism... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... they must be ready to protect and improve the good there, or to make what is to be done for the desktop. Because we want to build a system that will have the need of the victims and children in the centre, and the confession and observation of their lives. And for this purpose, it seems very important to us to know how it is to know how it is to know how it is that the system of protection which we have constantly to build has been observed by them, how it works from the routine of the professionals. After all, take a deep evaluation to keep going. It was very easy to get a deal along with you, and I want to thank you all. But today you'll let me send you a big kiss from Isa Gonzalez. You've been missing, Isa, this evening's discussion, but with one hand you've made this half-way. Today, we wanted to make a clear commitment to this legislature. We're ready to get better and go on learning. There's also violence in the position to face the machista. We need to evaluate the present state of support in order to start public feminists and build vital lives. I'd like to finish the feminist movement calling to take part in the mutations and enterprises today. See you on the streets.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Ciudads, has the word, Mrs Garrido.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. The Chief physician, good morning to all of you. I shall be rather short, for as we have a vast deal of agreement, I think it is important to remark that the agreement we have is to-day, considering the date against women. Today, 25 November, International Day of Gender Violence, from the group I represent, we want to tell women that we are with them, that we support them and that we want to help them, and that of course, from the group, as I said, that I represent, we also want to tell them that through this agreement we reaffirm, we want to reaffirm our commitment to continue arbitrating and implementing all those measures that are necessary to eradicate this scourge. Today, on the international day of the murder of women's opposition violence, we want to send direct messages to all women who suffer this violence, saying that we are with them, that they have our support and that we will force them to complete this problem. In particular, in order to find solutions and solutions, we must first know reality, and we must say that they are encouraged to face this problem in several institutions, but we must still make the way together as far as possible. He said that first to know a problem is necessary... to address a problem, rather, it is necessary to know it, to get closer to the reality, to the reality of women who suffer gender-based violence, and in this sense we have to say that as a society we have made a lot of progress, but certainly there is a way to go. I would like to highlight some issues that seem important to me when we talk about violence against women. The awareness of its existence, which has to be accompanied without any doubt by a visibility and I believe that we have made considerable progress here. We also need to talk about prevention, and here education, education in values, is important, and this is one of the points that we mentioned in our amendment tabled. The Commissioner, Mrs Artolazabal, was talking about the many services and programmes that we have in our autonomous community and I am obviously not going to review them all. But I do think it is important to highlight a number of issues, the importance of early detection of situations or possible situations of gender-based violence, which also extends to the environment of the victim of gender-based violence, because there are usually people, children, especially those who suffer from gender-based violence. And then, of course, the attention and protection that must also be integral and multidisciplinary. And also, without doubt, the coordination of all the actors involved, of all the institutions and training, the training of our professionals. Well, we've come a long way, as I said. Of course, we believe that from the institutions they have taken important steps over all these years, while we have taken them in society, but to the extent that they remain... there are women victims of gender violence and unfortunately some die from these unfortunate situations and this scourge, for we believe that we continue to deepen in measures that are necessary, as I said, to end gender violence. It seemed important to us that this transaction should be taken up, I thank all the spokespersons who made this agreement possible, I think we all had it clear, apart from specific clarifications that we could have included each of the groups that supported this agreement and I think we all had it very clear that today, International Day of Gender Violence, we had to come up with a minimum agreement and I think it is what is important and what is going to remain and what is going to be seen by the whole of Basque society. And as I was saying, it seems important to us, and I finish, Madam President, because I promised you that it would be brief, to make a reference to the... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... to be able to see the whole of Basque society. And as I said, it seems important to us, and I conclude, Madam President, because I promised you that it would be brief, to make a reference to the interinstitutional agreement and also to make a reference to the issues that I pointed out in my speech, such as awareness-raising, prevention, care and protection. As well as not, in this House, we have long debated, well, since I have been in the Basque Parliament since 2009, many times, many times, 2006, in relation to these issues, and I think it is important that we make a reference to all these agreements, which many of them are being complied with, but some of them are still outstanding issues and fringes. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u41	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u42	Today we are going to debate on this item on violence against women at the door of 25 November, the day on which we have been commemorating the International Day against Violence against Women for more than two decades. It is a day of support for women who suffer this macho violence, their daughters and children, their families and friends. And we do so with the conviction that it is a just cause and reminds us that we must continue to make progress in the commitment to eradicate the macho violence in our society. The figures speak for themselves. At the national level, 1,118 women and 44 boys and girls have been killed since 2003. Mrs Etxebarrieta has mentioned the figures within our Basque community. Moreover, these figures increase when we refer to young women and we are concerned that 20% of young people deny the existence of gender-based violence and that, moreover, this has increased since 2019, because then it was 12% that considered it. And we cannot forget one thing, that behind every figure there is a woman's life. We cannot resign ourselves to these figures. And that is why the Socialist Party complied at the state level. In 2004, we adopted the Law on Comprehensive Protection Measures against Gender Violence, which is a global reference. We encourage the State Pact against Gender Violence to provide an institutional and consensus response to a problem we consider a State issue. In addition, we also encourage its renewal to further improve that greatest possible consensus. We adopt the Royal Decree-Law on Urgent Measures for the Development of the State Pact against Gender Violence, to promote and address legislative changes necessary to extend protection to victims, their children and their daughters. And during the COVID-19, we directed resources to the State Administrations to prevent and combat gender-based violence and recognized as essential services for victims of gender-based violence. In addition, we are currently working on an agreement to ensure and improve the financing of public policies to combat machist violence in autonomous communities and municipalities through the State Pact funds. And all these measures have made Spain a pioneer in policies of equality and against macho violence. The State Pact against Gender Violence will be in force next year. The Socialist Party believes that it is a time to know the impact the pact has had on our society. It is time to assess, renew and update the commitment to gender-based violence in the Congress of Deputies, bringing together as much consensus as possible in this area. We firmly believe that no party interest is above the struggle of macho violence. And that's why the great advances in defending women's rights are and have been carrying our signature. Today we must also face the threat of a negationism of gender-based violence, which is encouraged from the extreme right and which joins with anti-feminism, and which seeks to break these social and political consensuss and reverse women's rights where they govern, because not to admit the existence of specific violence against women is to deny it. This denialist discourse on gender-based violence is very serious and has an undesirable impact on our society, and it breaks that existing social and political consensus with which we have made progress in recent years. For this reason, and in the face of all this, the Socialist Party reaffirms its commitment to feminism and the fight against macho violence and effective equality between men and women. And the Basque Government also has as its priority the eradication of macho violence. In recent months, we have been working all groups, almost all parliamentary groups, on the reform of the Law on Equality of Women and Men, also seeking that broad consensus in the fight for equality and against macho violence, which is essential. This new law will include important improvements, including the strengthening of human, economic and technical resources. Of course, I believe that the agreement we have reached today is good, it is at a good time. That, as I said, it is important to make that assessment to guide our public policies in the fight against macho violence in the best possible way. Of course, thank you to all the groups. I think it is very good that we continue to achieve these broad consensus in these areas. Of course, convey to our colleague Isabel González our support from here and we hope that he will recover quickly. She could not present the amendment to the whole for the accident she had the day before, but we have also worked together independently... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... she was unable to present the amendment as a whole because of the accident she had the day before, but we have also worked together independently of it to achieve together the necessary consensus that we wanted to achieve in order to continue to advance together in the improvement and in the fight against macho violence. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u43	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arriganaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Legs. Chief bureau, congressmen, good morning to all. We're discussing a quantum evaluation of resources to prevent violence, when November 25, against the opposition of women, is the day. Today especially, but every day we've got to be in charge of the fact that we get to know the machista violence and get the force to avoid it and work. I say, though the 84% of the Euscal population believe that violence is a priority to the Machiist, yet, alas, there is still some who deny or deny that this reality exists. It's a violence made to a woman because she's a woman, based on sex distinguishing. Nay, it is the act of any violence which is intended for a woman, which affects or affects women, physical pain, sexual or psychological suffering. Also an arbitrary removal of the threats or liberties of such actions, either in public or private life, or in the children of women, is also a machination of violence; It's a ration, multi-dimensional, global, and we're calling it, call it, call it a genus violence, a machista of violence, but it's undeniable. And to finish this, we all have to work together. Etxebarrieta andreak, Sánchez andreak eman dituzte datuak, egia da, hainbat datu, portzentaiak, zifrak, nik bi baino ez ditut aipatuko. Genero indarkeriagatiko salaketei dagokienez, 2021eko lehenengoko hiruhilekora art 1,203 salaketa jarri dira Euskadin. And more than 5,000 women need police protection from Ertzaintza for male violence, as vice-lehendakari Erkoreka announced a few days ago. Eta gaur bereziki gogoan izan nahi said Legebiltzar honetan Erika eta Conchi. The tragic dowries deaths that the scourge of macho violence has claimed in Euskadi this year. They will no longer be able to bear witness to the living hell. Testimonies like those we are listening to in the campaign designed on this 25th November, giving continuity to the work carried out by Emakunde last year, with women between 55 and 79 years old who provide real testimonies of the violence experienced for many years. I don't know if you could have listened these days. "He came home and there was always something wrong. I've been putting up with it for 40 years, for the family. Now it's my turn to live." Testimonies like this are the ones we're listening to, real ones. And Emakunde and the Basque Department and Government are questioning us as a society and asking us what about you, see? Because only an attentive society detects the most hidden, the most everyday violence and, in many cases, is normalized. There is a commitment on the part of Basque society to deal with macho violence. And today we're going out on the street and we're going to claim it. Eta erakundeen partitik beda era, konpromisoa dago. Urteak darama Gobernu honek indarkeria matxistaren alde lanean eta berdintasunaren alde. Hor baitago sustraia, berdintasun gehiagok indarkeria gutxiago ekarriko baitu. For years too, the most active society, the feminists of movement, is a work to be done among all, because the end is the same. The roads sometimes, even if they are not equal, are parallel, and are in the same direction. The engagement of this government is both sincere and solid, the president's, the Department's, the whole government, and also strong and honest, of the Jestric Party. We will continue to encourage policy which will enable us to prevent violence against women, to encourage education based on the value of equality and respect, in all the states and stages of life. For this purpose we have a perfect opportunity in our hands, for the power of the law of equality will soon yield its fruits. It's been a long time, a complete party process. The technicians, different agents, institutions, feminists, unions, all have their space, and everyone will contribute their contributions. He's doing a lot of hard work, but he's also excruciating. And I'm sure this Chamber will be admitted to a high degree of agreement. We owe it to the victims, we owe it to the eucalyptic society. Again, the admission of the adaptation of the law of equality will suppose resistance to advance a vast step round the beautiful equality of the Basques. And this is where I'd like the young people to get a message. They are the faces of society, begun and bred in a supposed equal society. Y anún queda la nobi por hacer. No nos confiemos, we have to keep working. There are still messages against equality that can't be tolerated, we can't accept them. Today, owing to the remuneration of the Basque Country, we have come to an agreement with a large agreement. Two weeks ago... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Admit it. Today, we have come to an agreement through the union of the Basque People. Two weeks ago, the Chief Artola generous Division had already advanced, and I'd like to read it. Counselor Artolazabal said: "We can say that we are making progress on three fundamental aspects that derive directly from improving the care of women victims, which result in facilitating their journey and accompanying them in the toughest moments. It is necessary to adapt to the new realities and for that we are doing that reflection." He also said: "The three aspects on which we believe we have to focus and which we are working to expand the network of resources are: strengthening coordination, boosting the training of professionals who care for women victims and promoting research." And Mrs Etxebarrieta replied that her concern about the analysis to see what the reality is because it fits perfectly with what the department was working at the time. She also said: "Erronka handia of her, une erabakigarria of the berdintasune indartzeko eta emakumeen aurkako indarkeria errotik kentzeko", and that we had to continue working because we moved the continuous improvement. And that's right, that's right. We agreed at that time. "Eso ha facilitado que hoy pudieramos illare allica con este amplio acuerdo." So we've been able to get the deal today, and I'd like to thank everyone who's given the opportunity, especially the bureau, but also all the teams. The Basque Country to the Collectors, Mrs. Houseland, who has been very kind for her honesty. To the Popular because of his contributions, together with Podemos, I'd like to send him a close hug with Isa Gonzálezi, we miss him here today, but we feel very close. It's the Social Party, too, because of the work we do together. And we are all united to face the machista of violence. It's necessary. It's necessary. And honestly, I want to thank you all honestly. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing over to the teams that haven't issued the corrections, Mistto, Mrs Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today, 25 November, we celebrate the International Day to Eradicate Violence against Women, coming from both a man and a woman, that is, the goal is to eradicate violence against women. Today the façade of Parliament is illuminated in lilac colour, with its symbol also in the same color and concentration of all parliamentarians in this House abroad. The whole press will pick him up tomorrow for his vanaglory. The feminist collectives and all the chiringuites created ad hoc, such as Emakunde, will applaud and spread the initiative. And then what? What will we then do to make these women's situation better and more dignified? Society no longer believes this defense in what (does it decide?) of his progressive postulates around women, nor his efforts to demonize all men for the mere fact of being men, in labeling the male gender of rapist, abuser, aggressor or murderer for the mere fact of being born male. From Vox we condemn the violence suffered by women. You heard me, didn't you? From Vox we condemn the violence suffered by women. In fact, we will participate in the institutional act that will take place at 12 o'clock outside Parliament, because we are consistent with what we say. But the difference is that since Vox we condemn all violence without palliatives, the exercise that exercises it, be it man, woman, minor, major and whatever its religion, political opinion, national origin or social position. In that we differ from you. In Vox we don't focus on a part of the victims. For Vox all victims are equal, as, in fact, is already guaranteed in our Constitution. However, you, far from guaranteeing that equality, are promoting a sex war that is ineffective in ending the scourge of violence. Because, curiously, more and more women are victims of ill-treatment, more and more women suffer them. You haven't wondered why? Let us draw some conclusions. Of the budget items, how much money does the victims actually get? Just a tiny percentage. The bulk of the money remains in ideological entanglements that have nothing to do with helping the victims, but with satisfying grateful stomachs. Abusers and murderers serve ridiculous penalties, making it impossible to root out the violent situation. Let us work to ensure that rapists and murderers serve exemplary sentences. In fact, far from an effective protection system, we have a set of individuals who spend resources that would make it possible for victims to be effectively protected in giving courses without any support, in empowering, but this does not support the slightest scientific analysis. It is therefore the responsibility of the Basque Government and public administrations to ensure a life free of violence of all kinds and, on the basis of this, to provide the necessary tools and actions both to raise awareness and prevent any kind of violence and to attend to and redress, as is the case with us, to all cases of violence and to each and every victim who suffers such violence. From Vox we invite you to launch a plan of domestic violence without first and second victims and without classification of victims. As a woman, as a Spaniard, as a Basque, I don't want to have privileges for the mere fact of being a woman. I want my friends, my parents, my colleagues, any of you, all to have access to comprehensive and quality care so that you can overcome any episode of abuse, harassment, assault or rape. Vox wants it, too, and you don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u47	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Miss Hatage, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u48	From the seat. I think we've got a little time and that's why I'd like to be brief. I'd like to say, first of all, that the Forest has been grateful for its initiative. He mentioned the victims here, the victims of this year, in our country. I'd like to remind you, too. And I take the word to say yes, that we agree... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... This year's victims here in our country. I'd like to remind you, too. And I take the word to say that we agree with each other, that we must consider what means are. And I'd like to say it's disgusting, too, that it's unacceptable to deny the existence of a machita violence. It's disgusting and unacceptable, even if you don't believe women's victims. So our allegiance, our full strength to the feminist struggle, to make a demonstration of what today calls. And we'll be there to defend our rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Is there an answer? No one wants to participate in the answer? Yeah? Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u50	... very easy in this Parliament every day. Excuse me? Can you hear me? No, which I say we condemn, I repeat to make it clear that since Vox we have condemned violence against women. But we are not going to get into that debate game, because it would be a mistake to get into it. And I also want to say that as a woman I find it very easy every day in this Parliament, at this democratic rate. But I would ask all of you a very simple thing, as it is today. Is the verbal violence I am subjected to every day in this House simply because I am a woman? I'd ask that. Violence, disrespect. I tell you that I believe and trust that it will not be so, so I hope, that it will not be because of this. So I understand that verbal violence and continuous disrespect for my person is because you are violent, right? Think, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u51	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. End of discussion, we'll vote for EH Collect, the Euskal Socialists and the Middle Amendment signed by Eucabertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 72; the contrary is 1. Abscesions, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u52	So it's accepted to the half-correction. Next, I interrupt the whole meeting to make an association to explain that we are all opposed to the machista of violence. And we'll follow up. The meeting stopped at twelve o'clock in the morning. The meeting began again at twelve o'clock in the morning. [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u53	Good afternoon again. It's the proposer's turn. Mr. Gordillo, it's your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, Mr Lehendakari, members of the Government. On 12 November I presented to this House a question to the Councilwoman of Self-Government concerning the need, in my opinion, for a series of reforms in our legislation to ensure the protection of complainants. The protection of complainants is crucial in all modern public administrations and in all advanced democratic societies. For different reasons. Look, the amount of money that moves, for example, in public procurement is very high. It is estimated that at the national level, at the national level, Spain, the State handles an amount of money in public procurement close to 20% of GDP. In the autonomous communities this calculation is not made, but surely the relative percentage would be quite higher. It is common for all, and it has become increasingly common, that even in the private sector the companies themselves begin to establish systems of what has been called compliance, with compliance officer etc. In other words, to establish internal systems also to guarantee not only legality and that there is minimum technical and legal advice, but also to establish the necessary channels to protect precisely those who have information, who have critical information, to uncover possible situations of fraud, corruption, etc. This is an issue that affects both the public and private sectors. According to a report by the European Commission at the time, it was estimated – this was 2017 – that the loss of potential profits suffered by European society as a result of the lack of protection of complainants is set at between €5.8 billion and €9.6 billion. It could be practically, including depreciation and so on, some EUR 10 billion per year for the European Union as a whole. It is not just an economic loss, it is primarily an ethical issue, it is a question of fair play, and it is above all a question of having, or establishing, systems to ensure that public resources are spent, used in the most effective, efficient way possible, and above all without corrupt practices, corruption, etc., or any other kind of similar circumstance. In Spain we have experienced many cases of corruption, fraud, etc., and for this reason there have been certain moments, certain administrations have taken the initiative directly to create precisely systems to protect complainants. There are local administrations that have done so. Some in the case of Catalonia. There are also autonomous administrations that have done so. For example, the last law that has been passed in Spain is that of the Autonomous Community of Andalusia, although rules in this regard had also been or have been adopted in Aragon, also in Castile and León, etc. Indeed, we now have a directive at last. A directive which was adopted in 2019 and which is for the government, as you know, to transpose before the end of this calendar year. In particular, before mid-December, before 17 December, it is necessary to transpose this directive into national law. In this regard, I believe it is important for all administrations to act in an equally coordinated manner, and above all to establish certain coordination procedures together with institutions such as the Office of the Prosecutor, the courts, etc., above all in order to avoid such practices. Look, the human being, ladies and gentlemen, is as corrupt as the rules, the situation... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... but also with institutions such as the Office of the Prosecutor, the courts, etc., especially to avoid such practices. Look, the human being, ladies and gentlemen, is as corrupt as the rules, the situation, society allows him to be. And it is true that in countries like ours, in societies like ours, what has happened many times, is that the person who has denounced that he had information, had information relevant to uncover cases that ultimately affected us all, because when there is a case of fraud, corruption, the harm we are all, the harm we are all. And here what has happened many times, and I speak in general in Spain, although we could also set many examples in our Community, because there have been times when the person who has reported fraud has been particularly affected, because it has been, let us say, even separated, affected in his personal, labour relations, etc. And that is what this type of legislation and this type of action must avoid. And that is why I think it is important to take a step forward in this direction, as I will explain in part below, we can take it today in this Basque Parliament. In the case of the protection of complainants, it is logical that the directive sets out the need or measures to be taken in the different Member States of the Union, which would affect different sectors of the legal system. There would be measures that would affect the criminal sphere, and issues should be effectively reformed in the Criminal Code. There are measures that would affect the way in which public administrations operate and there are also measures that would affect coordination or that should be implemented coordination measures between different public administrations, guaranteeing also, guaranteeing also a very important issue that is above all the... in this case, the intimacy and especially the one who is not aware of which person has been able to be the complainant in specific cases and facilitating, if it is known or possible to have clues, providing this person who can change his or her job position or who can, let's say, rebuild his or her life as well..., his or her professional life in the least traumatic way possible, because if there are no incentives, if there are no incentives. The way in which orders exist or have, ladies and gentlemen, as you will surely know, to encourage or encourage people who have certain information to bring it to the attention of the authorities is diverse. There are legal systems in which even the more Anglo-Saxon complainants are economically compensated. In Anglo-Saxon systems, moreover, post-account systems often involve imposing fines, very dissuasive sanctions, because they are sanctions that do not resemble what would be, for example, in Spain, in Europe, an administrative sanction that respects the principle of proportionality, but to understand us ladies and gentlemen they would be exemplary sanctions. In our case, in the European context, logically with our type of legal system, all sanctions must be proportionate, etc. But what is particularly lacking in our system is incentives for people who have this type of information to take this personal risk to inform the authorities of the evidence or information they have to activate the necessary mechanisms and to put an end to this type of situation. What are or could be such incentives. For man, incentives, even talked at times of discussion of this kind of regulation, of establishing economic prizes and such, but good was discarded. In any case, what is or needs to be established are measures to protect these people. What kind of protective measures, for example, look at a person who works in the public administration, who has the capacity to move after moving, or who has the capacity to move, for example, from his or her regular place of work. A system that allows you to send the information without any risk to your identity, i.e. that you do not finally know the identity of the complainant, that there is a reservation in this regard, even during part of the processing of the file itself. Finally, there are issues that also affect the rights of defence of affected natural and legal persons, as I said earlier, we need to carry out certain reforms that will affect our entire system. That being the case, in the Spanish case, once the... once the transposition of the directive takes place, which we have news, then (?) Certainly soon. If it is not done, as you know, the European Commission can establish what is called a non-transposition procedure in this case of Union law. And therefore, there will be sanctions against our country for not having transposed the directive. Well, as soon as the directive is transposed, to the extent that there is some room for manoeuvre on some issues, it is very important that all the administrations and institutions in Spain that are dedicated or that may have some responsibility, are coordinated. This was said, for example, in the expert appearances in the Andalusian Parliament on the occasion of the law passed last June. There were a number of appearances and, for example, the Prosecutor's Office did establish that it had a positive opinion of the bill or of the Andalusian bill, but what it suggested or what it suggested at the time in parliamentary proceedings was that coordination mechanisms should be included among all administrations; that is, that the administrative complexity we have in Spain, which is a complexity arising from a vertical distribution of complex power, and in the case of Euskadi even more, because we have the Councils, the Foral Deputies, then the Basque Government and also the powers of the central State itself. What is at stake, I insist, is to prevent the different or the complexity of our administration from causing problems, or above all, from putting a stop to combating these kinds of situations. Well, this is the situation. That's why on the 12th, the other day, I asked the councilwoman the question that you all already know. Of course, that's where what was raised or the debate that we had, was very interesting and constructive, counselor, I take the opportunity to tell you, in the debate that we had, of course, the argument that she gave me was not bad at all, it was not bad, (?, well, we will wait for the transposition of the National Directive, the Directive, forgiveness, European, to national law and from there we will act. Well, I think it's one thing... It seems to me a reasonable and sensible step. It is a bit of a change from other times that we have legislated in the Basque Country sometimes without waiting entirely for certain measures to be carried out, but well, I am in favour and our group is in favour of accepting this situation, and logically, here to accede to the compromise amendment that we have agreed and to wait effectively for that transposition of the directive to be carried out and then to develop the internal measures that are necessary, logically, to complete the definitive transposition. Because one thing I think we need to be clear enough, and it is that the complete transposition of this directive will surely go through the adoption of laws in all the autonomous parliaments that include... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... we have to be quite clear now, and it is that the complete transposition of this directive will surely go through the adoption of laws in all autonomous parliaments that include the establishment, designation, composition, or whatever, of an authority, of an organ that enjoys maximum independence and that is ultimately the one that ends, let us say, by analysing these kinds of situations and complaints. But, well, that's a later step. That is why I believe that the best system for..., because here what it is about in the end is not that we bring or that I bring here one day an initiative that may seem more or less interesting and that remains in an initiative that we discuss in a full of control, but that there is an effective change in the administration itself, and that, above all, among all, we are gradually changing what social culture is also about these kinds of issues. That is why the procedure, or what we think, was to raise the question, then to submit to this House the need for the Government to actually consider passing a law. If it does not do so, it is logical that the parliamentary groups, perhaps our own in particular, would perhaps also propose to this House a proposal for a law in this regard. But I believe that the right way, above all such a delicate issue, as important as this, is for the initiative to come from a government bill, to be accompanied by all the legal reports that guarantee all security, legal certainty, and above all to ensure that the measures we are going to implement are really in line with the rest of the system – which needs to be amended – and above all that they are also in line with the directive itself. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of moving forward. I believe that today perhaps a modest step, but it is a step in this direction. Because the agreement that we have reached with the parties that support the government is indeed to wait for the transposition of the directive at national level, at state level, and then for the government to analyse that directive and to inform the House. And man, I hope there is a need to introduce a bill in this regard, because I believe it is necessary. That is why I believe, ladies and gentlemen, I insist – and with this I conclude – that it is a matter of progress little by little, small steps, but firm steps. And today I believe that we can take a step in this direction and finally establish a system that will bring us together with the rest of the European administrations, and a system that will really allow those who are aware of fraudulent practices that affect the public sector, but which, above all, ultimately affect the services we receive from citizens, to be properly protected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u55	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Passing over to the leaders' round, representing the EH Collector, Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. And good noon to all. The irregular, improper practice, and, in short, corruption, produces in society evils which cannot be resisted. And these phenomena are also splashed out by the institution here and by the administration. And it is impossible to know whether the cases we have hitherto known are punctual or only to the summit of the ice-tree; for it is certain that cases are gradually increasing. We have known such cases as are generally made public, because the cases which have been found in the media have been a penal course, because it generally supposes a restricted crime. But it is possible that irregular practices should exist, but that they should not be unlawful, that they should not be contrary to law, or not be sufficient to receive a penal punishment. And many of these, we have not sufficient means of prevention, detection, investigation, inspection, inspection, and punishing, for want of organs or institutions, we have no mechanism. I don't mean to say that EH Collect, the US Attorney of the Esquillian Autonom, in his 2020th yearly memory of his 2020s, because it's a story that is repeated every year. Therefore, EH Collector proposed that the law of creating an office for the best and corruption in the preceding law, which we had in the tramite during the 11th law. And in this law it was not received that measures were made for the protection of the accusers, who came here to dispute, because there was no other law but that of justice. But in the same proposition as PNV and PSE have rejected in this present institution, it was received to protect the persons who accuse cases of improper, fraud, or corruption of conduct, to protect the Parliament of Europe, and the 2019 directance of the Council. But, as we know, you threw him back, and you didn't even accept it. And therefore, in the present day, and in the consequence of a coherent exercise, we demand of the Government, not of the bringing in of the J. EH. Collect, because we have the perfect decency to leave it in your hands, and to introduce it into this chamber. Let the Government itself be the cause of the law, to see whether we can thereby make such an authority here, to be here, in this part of our people. Because if we have the rights to create an office and develop the rules of Europe, we have the rights to do that, there's no problem. So, it's not a jurisdiction. We don't need any other law to develop a rule that comes from Spain, so we can develop our own tools. It's a matter of will. That's all. Tolerance of improper practice, clytelism, and corruption, is simply to have zero attitudes. Statuan, Statu spainiarrean, Espainiako Erresuman, badaude korrupzioaren aurkako boulego autonomikoak: Antifrau office of Catalonia, hemen izan ditugunak, Agency for the Prevention and Fight against Fraud and Corruption of the Valencian Community and Office of Prevention and Fight against Corruption of the Balearic Islands. And it is not a chance, it is not a chance to have these communities for their democratic culture. It's not a coincidence. And all these offices against bad practices and corruption have channels of complaints like the ones we're raising here today, which fulfill... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... for the sake of democracy. It's not a coincidence. And all these offices against bad practices and corruption have channels of complaints such as those we are raising here today, which meet the requirements of the European Whistleblowing Directive. And that is where the original initiative and the compromise amendment that you are going to adopt today is taken. She gets really fucked up, 'cause who's gonna run these channels? Who's gonna take care of it? What kind of complaints are you going to take on? Perhaps today they can give us some clue in this regard. Where can irregular practices be reported in this country, without having to go to the ordinary courts, with what this implies? Mr Gordillo has told us what mechanisms would be established with the development of this law. But he hasn't spoken to us before what authorities. And for us, that is the key to this issue, because not having an agency, not having an authority that can establish and regulate these channels, in compliance with this directive, means giving up the detection and prevention of infringements at an early stage. We have no authority to detect and prevent early-stage infringements. It also means not promoting regulatory compliance, through the establishment of effective, confidential and secure complaint channels, which effectively protect whistleblowers from retaliation. And not establishing mechanisms also means not having such an agency, not establishing mechanisms for alerters not to incur any liability, whether civil, criminal, administrative or labour. And, in the largest case of corruption we know in this country, which is pending a final judgment, we already know the reprisals that the complainant has suffered and has suffered. And therefore we are not contrary to the intention of what is proposed. These are from Europe, because they are received in some manner justly and justly. And we agree with this rule, but it is necessary to have a necessary organism or authority for its application. With that, and with our reading, we have two elements to emphasize. Especially two items in this discussion today. And both are politicians. Two outstanding elements. The first is that renunciation, once again, which is made of a proactive attitude to detect and pursue irregular practices. Do not end revolving doors or customer networks. And the other renunciation is why not use our powers and wait for what the Spanish Government does. And it happens a little here as with the law that we present for the limitation of rental prices. I mean, we have a problem. We can work it out. We have tools to do it. But no, but we're going to wait for a hypothetical law, in this case a hypothetical transposition of the law, which we'll see when it comes. But in the meantime, the rental prices are by the clouds and we don't stop them. And in the meantime, we do not have safe channels to report such irregular practices. And the truth is, you guys are starting to have, you're starting to have a build-up of unsettling negatives investigating anything that smells like corruption. Only this legislature, now that it is removed, Mrs Garamendi, from its seat, this legislature, you, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV and the Socialist Party, have blocked an external and independent investigation in the case of the consultants, known as the Northern Cartel. You've blocked the foundation of the office for the right media and the corruption. And to-day you have decided to keep your arms folded in front of this charge to protect the accusers. Soon, you will be able to accept the law to end with the spinning doors. Next week, we'll probably have the government's judgment. And we hope you don't lock that up this time. It is, as has been said, an inquisite of this government, and of the improper practice of PNVK and PSE, a corruption, ethical conduct, and an opposition to all propositions and proposals, to prevent the clergy or ethical conduct. To-day, again... En la enimenda transacional se recoge en su caso, y si, ya veremos, ya veremos más adelante." And there is a disturbing anxiety between the present and the absence of interest and will. It won't be possible today. We expect you to change that resolution with the spinning doors. And whether that's the way it is or not, we'll find out next week.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u57	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u58	Thank you, President. Well, I'll be pretty brief. Basically, because as can be seen in our amendment, our basic approach is explained. I believe that by itself and, in addition, it responds to something that when we go up to an atrium like this, it is good, which is logic. So, I think it explains itself. We have, on the one hand, a European directive, which has already been discussed. This is it. We all have it. We've agreed. We've seen her. We know that not only does he talk about the issue we are focusing on today, but he covers some more areas. And, as Mr Gordillo has well explained, this directive has to be transposed by the different Member States. There's a forecast... There was an initial forecast. It was included in this year's policy plan. And last Tuesday, in the Senate, the Minister of Justice announced that it will be included by the past year, at the beginning of next year. Then I will explain that it is not the only country that is having these delays. In fact, it is being the overall focus throughout the European Union. And we'll figure out why. And, from that mandate, the logical thing is that then the autonomous communities, following that logical reasoning, proceed to the developments that have to be made, whether normative or not, that may also be, that that is also one of the reasons why we will have to analyze the content... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... This is also one of the reasons why we will have to analyse the final content of the transposition. Therefore, in reality we are not discussing the substance, this is a matter more of a go-ahead. So, I'm not going to waste much time on these kinds of issues. I like to be a lot more practical. Because, at least in theory, I believe that we all agree – and that is very important – on the need to continue to implement anti-corruption mechanisms and also on the protection of whistleblowers. And I think that's an area shared by all. There was an initial position, which Mr Gordillo explained, which is what we saw the other day in the interpellation, which was a little advanced from the autonomic sphere without waiting for the transposition of the state sphere. It sounds a little weird to me, it will allow me, because it is not what we are used to hearing from the People's Party at least here in Euskadi, that in the first place, Mr Gordillo, that you go ahead here. But basically it seems strange to me because it's not the right thing – and I think you and I share it – in an element like this that in your developments can come to include the needs of organic laws. And we know that it can end up that way. We are talking about a certain time frame. And it's true that that deadline exists and would now, in December of this year. But there are difficulties. I went back into EUR-Lex yesterday, in EUR-Lex, to follow up on the countries that have made the transposition. Indeed, it is an official page that is being updated every 14 days. And for now, one, one is the one who's got it. And it's just that we're having trouble. Difficulties since the time when the application of this directive was carried out. Some might say "bureaucracy is slow." It's true. But, man, we also forget that by means of something that is called the "pandemic of the covid", in which the legislative developments of many governments have been postponed precisely to develop, to make legislative developments focused on the specific needs that we had to deal with this issue. But, above all, where it is ratifying the biggest debate that is extending these deadlines that should be taken into account is the debate on whether or not to extend the scope of the new legislation beyond the minimum requirements set out in the directive itself. Because, as you know – and I believe that Mr Gordillo in the interpellation said this – it is the European Union itself that on many occasions encourages the states themselves to go beyond those minimums that are being given in the directives. Therefore, there are such... in addition to being widespread in the European Union, these delays. They're giving and we have to recognize it. We even talk in European forums – you can see – about the possibility of an official extension of this deadline. But no one is calling into question the content of this directive – and I believe that is important. I mean, we're talking about it again, basically we all agree. The Government of Spain has been working on this for a long time. On 2 June 2020 the Ministry of Justice set up the working group within the General Commission of (Codification?) to submit a proposal for a law on the protection of whistleblowers of corruption. On 16 June, a few days later, it was the first meeting of that group that established, as always, the first lines of work. On December 2, 2020, the first draft was handed over to the ministry. And on 7 January 2021 the process of prior consultation was opened, which was closed on 27 January. (...?) to answer some of the questions that Mr Estarrona has raised and that are also necessary but to see that they are indeed included in that survey. And, as I have told you, the ministry is working. And this Tuesday in the Senate the Justice Minister herself said that she was working on the preliminary draft that will allow both the division of competence in this matter, given the multiple cross-cutting issues to be regulated, and the development of the state norm by the autonomous communities respecting their self-organizational power. I mean, we see that timing, if I may say so, that we explained a little in the amendment that we signed the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party is the logical timing that the state is working with. Therefore, the compromise amendment that we have reached is an amendment in which we feel fully comfortable because it responds to that initial logic that I have tried to put to you at least in this speech. And with regard to the amendment tabled by EH Bildu, by Mr Estarrona, I will, by the way, take the opportunity to do something I did in private with Mr Estarrona. The first point we discussed in June. And in that month of June I went to the explanation of vote and exceeded myself, because it was the first time I made an explanation of vote and went beyond what must be an explanation of vote. I apologized in private. I'm asking you here in public today. But the point is, we already discussed it then. I'm going to refer to what I already told you in June. And the rest of the points, the three points, are issues which are covered by the directive and which, as I say to you, we share and which will have to be seen. Even in this survey that I told you before the Spanish Government, the public consultation, you can read in its point five that specifically we are talking about and ask the question: Should an independent administrative authority be set up to receive, respond to and follow up complaints made by external channels or should the functions be entrusted to an existing authority? That debate is there. And we will have it in the Congress of Deputies, where we are represented all the political groups that sit in this House. I therefore believe that with the amendment we have obtained today, which is, first of all, to wait for that transposition, to analyse what the transposition tells us and the government's commitment to report on what it is going to do once this has become law, we are making some progress in bringing down to the ground that necessary guarantee from the complainants to continue fighting corruption. I think it's a good deal. And I want to thank the People's Group for its willingness to come to him. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u59	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians. Mr. Cuckoo, your word is yours. [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] - Word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. We've made a deal, we've been halfway together, and we're happy about this deal we've made on our side. Mr. Gordillo summed up the contents of the right-hand story, and he did very well, and I won't repeat it. Returning to the middle path, our original corrections are given in reply to the interaction of the Mount Garasts last week, and this medium holds good. Mrs Garamendi referred a very clear question to this House on the subject before us: "It is advisable to wait". And that is what we agreed in the compromise amendment that we tabled for debate in this plenary. To wait until after the transposition of the European Directive by the central government, to wait until after the necessary legislative changes have been made, the Basque Government can inform this House within a maximum of six months of the issues to be addressed or modified as a result of that transposition of the European Directive. We said that it is worth waiting for prudence and common sense. In the opinion of the Euzko Abertzaleak Group, it is essential to know the rules which the State makes regarding the transposition of the said directive, which, as has already been said, is that directive on the protection of persons reporting infringements of European Union law. We are talking about a directive that is going to bring about major changes in the treatment that Member States give to those who report unlawful conduct, known as alerters. It is certainly not an uncomplicated task. We will see what changes can be made to state legislation, which, in our view, should go beyond mere administrative measures, because we are dealing with an issue that must essentially be dealt with in the field of justice. As Mrs Garamendi said last week, organic, criminal and judicial legislators must first have a clear approach, and then we can be in the Basque area with a better approach. On this Tuesday, in an appearance made in the Senate by Signor Rico, the Minister of Justice has announced that the transfer of the European rights will probably arrive at the next meeting. And the Ministry is working on the bill. As I was telling you, we will see what changes can be made, they must be introduced into state law. And with that bill that the minister announced she will send to the General Courts, we will also have the opportunity to know the mandatory reports of the Fiscal Council, the General Council of the Judiciary, the Council of State, on an issue that, of course, has its legal complexity. That said, let no one get confused. Waiting for these legislative developments does not mean that they do not continue to act on all the resources we have provided to promote integrity, promote transparency and combat corruption. They remain fully in force and active. Vigorous and active. With regard to the amendment tabled by the Euskal Herria Bildu Group, although in its second, third and fourth points it covers issues which are in turn fully and clearly integrated into the Union Directive, and which must therefore be complied with and implemented and we fully agree with them – we have no doubt about this – where the doubt arises – well, the doubt, we are certain that that should not be the way – is at the first point. Mr. Rico said so. He has again rescued the bill that has been debated and rejected by our group. With regard to the second, third and fourth points, we agree, of course. But the problem lies at a time when those principles which you mark, which you include in your amendment, when they must be translated into measures that are, that have a legal capacity, that have a burden, that is, in legal measures, when they must be transferred to the official bulletin. There's the problem. There's the problem. But not only do we pose it to you. It is the problem that the Government of the State has on the table, it is the problem that we have, which the jurists have, it is the problem that we can all have. I mean, okay, we agree on the principles, but that's got to be taken to the newsletter, and that's why we have to change and touch a lot of things. Hence the legal complexity to which he referred. Well, with regard to the first point, to the creation of the office, we already said in his day that we disagreed and we stand in that position. It is true that we have the skills to generate it. That's right. We're not gonna deny it. But it is no less true than to give you the content that the directive requires is where we do not have all the competences. I wish, I wish, but it's not. And we have nothing but, we understand as the most reasonable thing at this point, to wait for that transposition by the Government of the State. I conclude by thanking Mr Gordillo for the agreement, his willingness to the agreement we have reached, which we believe is a reasonable agreement and which falls within the logic of the objective which we all seek, which is to implement the measures contained in the European directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u61	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Passing over to the uncorrected teams, Mistto, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning again. First of all, I would like to say to you that we are extremely happy and that we are pleased that the People's-Citizens Party is in favour of cleaning up the corruption that has been carried out for decades by all the parties in power, by all, and that we are finally seeing initiatives to deal with a... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... it is in favor of cleaning up the corruption that has been carried out for decades by all the parties in power, by everyone, and that we are finally seeing initiatives to treat self-diagnosed cancer, or perhaps it is more necessary to say a diagnosed cancer, but for justice. In any case, the initiative that you have brought to this plenary today, Mr Gordillo, seems very appropriate to us. We are confident that if anyone comes to denounce his party, or any of the parties that we are here represented and represented in the Government, for some corruption, that person will enjoy all the protections that they request today. And, for example, don't think of them as Ana Garrido, a whistleblower of the Gürtel plot at the Town Hall of Boadilla del Monte, who has been harassed and pressured ever since. Secondly, I would like to tell you that the answer given on 12 November by the Councillor for Self-Government following the call for proposals by the proposing group is a powerful draw. And it draws attention because, precisely, the PNV has been investigated, or is being investigated, by an endless number of cases of corruption: Alonsotegi, Balenciaga, Bidegi, Miguel's case, piles. We therefore do not understand how this situation fits with the statements made by the Councilwoman, in which she states that fraud and corruption are not a real citizen concern. Do you really think so? You don't think corruption is a citizen concern? Do you think society is not tired of the corruption of old politics and aspires to clean up institutions? Are you, perhaps, trying to divert attention from the corruption cases of your party? What is your interest in not protecting complainants? Perhaps, let people know that at some point they have reason to report cases of corruption that they will not be protected from government machinery. I just want to remind you that in 2014 a study published that 40% of the population of the Basque Autonomous Community coincided with the perception of corruption in the Basque Government. This happened in 2014. I leave the current percentage to your imagination. Therefore, in view of this strange obscurantism on the part of the Basque Government, in Vox we tell you that, of course, this initiative and all those that are brought to eliminate cases of corruption will support them. On the other hand, the amendment tabled by PNV, PSE with PP-Citizens, we believe that it is decafeinated; with the benefit of the initial initiative at first. However, we will support her. But we believe that it is decafeinated because we are talking about compliance with a generic European directive calling for the protection of persons reporting on infringements of Union law, and that it is still awaiting transposition. We could call it throwing balls out, because a future law doesn't mean we don't use the resources available today to fight corruption. And that's what we believe since Vox. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u63	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u64	Egun on. Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, counselors. I will not dwell too much on the endemic issue of corruption and the practice of corruption in the political system. However, I do believe that it is important to focus on how important it is to create control instruments by public administrations so that this is not the case. Besides because it is a demand of its own in democratic terms, it is also because citizenship and, in addition, over time it expresses it in a greater way or with greater force, it asks us to do so. Thanks to people with the name of alerters, which is a term derived basically from American legislation, thanks to alerters we have known in our country of cases of corruption, that some of them have already been mentioned in this debate, such as the Gürtel case, Aquamed, the Black cards, and even here, closer, the OPE scandal. Similarly, cases such as girls and boys stolen from state hospitals have even become known. This point we are discussing here, in any case, is not new. As I said, it's something that in other countries, doing a comparative exercise, has been dealt with for decades. But it has also been discussed in this House on more than one occasion. In fact, our own parliamentary group tabled in 2019, also because of the directive that has been mentioned here, a proposal for a law that was not accepted. And it was not accepted, moreover, with an unfavourable approach by the Basque Government, which did not refer in that report so much to the need to wait for the transposition of the directive, but rather to mention – and I read literally – "that in an appropriate instrument to provide for the incorporation of these measures – that is, those that we stated in our proposal for a law – they should be incorporated in the proposal for a law on transparency and citizen participation". And in the process of that law to which he referred, the unfavourable view of the Government, our parliamentary group raised certain amendments, including, for example, one that had to do with collecting in a box of complaints those of an anonymous nature. These amendments were not accepted either by the parliamentary groups supporting the Government. And when we discussed our proposal for a law, which, I say, had an unfavourable view on the part of the Government, the People's Party abstained. That's why he couldn't handle it either, because if he couldn't, he couldn't handle it. We therefore find it somewhat contradictory that Mr Gordillo here today has even raised the possibility of his own group making a proposal for a law, even moving ahead with the transposition of the directive. That is basically the point they have reached in agreement with the parliamentary groups that support the Government. Taking into account, moreover, that the proposal for a law that we put forward in 2019 was basically an initiative based on the directive. I understand, in any case, the argument, which seems reasonable to me, to wait for the transposition of the directive, until this happens to take steps along the lines of an initiative of this nature. In any case, I would like again to point out that the unfavourable report of the Basque Government did not use this argument to reject our initiative at the time, but rather... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... In any event, I would like again to point out that the unfavourable report of the Basque Government did not use this argument to reject our initiative at the time, but rather that the initiatives we put forward were through another proposal for a law. In any case, and I am not going to mention now what Mr Gordillo has already said before, and it is that, in economic terms, the fact of corruption means astronomical figures, with which relevant public investment could be made. But I am going to mention some data. For example, the 2016 Global Business Ethics report, which said that 36% of workers who made public irregularities suffered reprisals. Just as the Eurobarometer in 2017 stated that 81% of Europeans do not report cases of corruption when they know them. And, according to the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia, by the way, since anti-fraud offices have been mentioned, here we do not have, in Catalonia, half the cases of corruption are reported by citizens. Only 19 by political groups. We believe that it is evidence, with regard to reprisals, that it is necessary to give protection to all whistleblowers who bring corruption cases to the attention of the authorities. And we believe, in this regard, that any initiative that comes to this House, is more decaffeinated or more ambitious, must be supported by our parliamentary group. In this regard, we will, of course, support the initiative, the amendment by EH Bildu, the amendment by EH Bildu. But we will also vote in favour of the initiative put forward by the groups supporting the Government, which has been negotiated with the People's Party, because we believe that, in any case, although we are already proposing, at the time, the possibility that the time might have passed since a proposal for a law and we did not expect the directive to be transposed, we believe that, regardless of that, any effort being made in the direction of being able to give protection to whistleblowers is welcome. And, finally, I'm not going to get too long either... We do believe that it is vital to establish, in addition to the instruments contained in the directive itself, the instrument contained in the amendment tabled by EH Bildu, which is the Anti-Fraud Office. We do believe that there are elements and competences in order to be able to complete it in our territory. And we believe that we could have advanced and become avant-garde in our territory, in relation to the instrumentalization and implementation of tools that would enable us to combat what is the reprisals that are generated in front of alerters and alerters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u65	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Passing the answer round, representative of the popular-Ciudad Group, Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u66	Good. Thank you, Madam President. Very briefly. I believe that there is a consensus in the House, in the light of the speeches, that it is necessary for the public authorities and for parliaments to commit themselves to the development of any measure that can prevent corruption, above all, possibly, logically, to sanction the cases that occur. Indeed, the amendment that we put forward in our proposal was an era of progress, perhaps more ambitious, of course... But, well, I believe that the agreement we have reached, and I would like once again to thank the spokespersons of the two groups who support the Government, Mr Rico and Mr Atutxa, as well as the adviser here, for reaching an agreement. An agreement I think is sensible and reasonable. And we would have liked to have gone further, of course, but, in the end, it is the agreement that we have also been able to reach with the Government. I'm saying it's an agreement that what you propose, above all, is... okay, let's do it this way. Let's go for a walk. We're going to do it in steps, as you say, but we're going to do it. Let's do it. And I believe that this would be an issue on which the groups of the House could agree or there could be a very broad consensus in this House to bring forward a law or normative provisions in this regard, which are more than necessary. What content are these provisions going to have? Well, look at the content that this is going to have, that it is going to have all the legislation and transposition, they are going to establish channels of complaint in companies and administrations, above all, mandatory in companies with more than 50 workers and in municipalities with more than 10,000 inhabitants. At a minimum, they will have an obligation to have effective complaint channels and to keep the identity of the complainants. Hierarchy of complaint channels, new rules that include new categories of people, persons at the service of administrations, officials, volunteers, workers in practices... A large number, a much broader scope of application, which is not only left in public procurement but also extended to financial services, prevention of money laundering, thus renewing something that already exists in this area. Measures to support and protect complainants, very important, and some group has recalled, people who at the time made complaints and that the truth is that they have received, above all, reprisals of a social nature, of their environment, which have been or are very disincentive to others. And finally, the obligation of information for the public authorities and companies. There is an obligation to respond to the complainant and to deal with that complaint within three months of the directive. As I say, we are indeed going to do as the groups of the Government have proposed. We must wait for national transposition. It's already been announced. The minister has already done it. It has been recalled in this House that the bill is being finalized. But, above all, let's do it. Mr Rico said: "Man, it is a very complex issue, indeed, and there is only one state that is already transposing the directive." Yeah. When the directive was established there were already six states in the Union, which had a system more or less homologable to what was being requested. And indeed, as Mr Rico has said very well, it is clear that he is a lawyer, indeed, he is complex. Mr Atutxa has also insisted, it is a complex issue, which has different, let us say, edges, which, logically, must be narrowed down. But I did want to end this intervention with one question. And it is that, remember, ladies and gentlemen, that the two spokespersons are jurists also consignors... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ...we have to narrow it down. But I did want to end this intervention with one question, and it is that you remember, ladies and gentlemen, that the two spokespersons are jurists who also register the transactional, which, like any directive, here also finally applies European Union law. And you recall that any directive which, in the event that the transposition period has expired, is unconditionally clear and sufficiently precise because it can be successfully invoked before the courts without the need for a national transposition rule. That is why it is good that there is a coordinated national parliament, a national government, an autonomous government and an adequate transposition. Why? Because, if not, it will eventually be the courts that, perhaps, by interpreting certain articles of the directive, eventually give way on one side and on the other. I therefore encourage the Councilwoman, who has an extraordinary legal team, to put people here from now on, I believe, to review the directive in case, in fact, the deadline expires and we do not have an adequate transposition as to what consequences would be, above all, for the autonomous administration itself. But, as I said before, okay, let's do it like this, but, ladies and gentlemen, let's do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u67	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. The representative of the EH Collector must not speak a word. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, yes, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u68	Short, even if I get out here, it's just really uncomfortable with the microphone. I would like to thank everyone for the willingness and tone that everyone has shown in this debate. And I think that in these kinds of issues we have to send a very clear and obvious message to the citizenry, and that is that we continue to work continuously to end cases that of course do harm to all the citizens of the place where those cases of corruption happen, but that do a terrible harm to those who want to be in politics to give the best of ourselves – that I make it extendable to all of us who are sitting in this House – and of course we have never thought of taking anything that is not ours. And I think that when sometimes these debates are used to give us milk – they will forgive me for the expression – among us we do an exercise that is only against us. I am pleased that today this Parliament has once again been able to have a debate like the one we have had in this calm tone. And I appreciate the support that this transaction has received. Nothing more. And thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u69	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians. Monsieur Cuckoo, from there, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u70	Congresswoman, if you'll allow me. Good morning again. I spoke clearly of my first interference. I think I was clear. But, well, some people don't seem to understand it or to listen to it or to explain that I'm very bad. There's a legal and cultural organization in the Esquila Autonomy Esquire. In order to promote the public administration of Euscala, there are ways to promote transparency, and to prevent corruption. Don't start from scratch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u71	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Mist shouldn't take it. Together... He mustn't speak. End of discussion, we'll vote for the Basque Groups of PopularCans, Euscala. S ocialists and eubertarians have signed delivery correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; in the votes given, 73; in favour of 53; in the contrary, 0; abstaining, 20; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0;
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u72	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Number of points in theme list: "To the knowledge and control of the equivalent of the parlamentary teams, the gift of weight and bedroom tourists. To discuss and to decide once and for all." Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Casanova, representing the EH team, is yours to present and defend the commitment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u73	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Ekain Rico, on the other hand, has begun to mention logic to his interference. And I'll do the same. Because today's proposition from the Basque Country is based on logic. And I don't know if it's unusual, but it's going to be logical to-day, I mean...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u74	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u75	... that the proposal will be advanced by a large agreement, first, between the half-way groups, the proposed team, the EHG, and also the teams supporting the government, but also because it will receive entire or divided support from other groups. Logic prevails. And that's good news. We must also admit that our proposition was not particularly daring, that we required nothing of the rest of the world. What we were asking for and what we were asking for... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... he is overcome, and that is good news. We must also admit that our proposition was not particularly daring, that we required nothing of the rest of the world. What we were asking for, and what will go on, if the foundation is to get better information, may be problematical to have a more complete criterion about a subject, both from the institutions and for the political parties and even for the whole society. We demanded, and it will be admitted today, that in this Chamber, to make a new report about the reality of the tourists, to make a strict report, to know the real reality, because today there is difficulty in defining the reality of the world, because there is a remarkable difference between the censused weight and the tourist bedrooms and those who are offered in practice. And we have to identify the dimensions of that difference. And, it's clear, we're going to ask everybody to continue his work to remove those tourist housing and bedrooms that are illegally out of doors from the market and execute the law. That's what we're going to ask for, it's modest, but it's practical. And we believe it will give us a effective instrument to understand more clearly all the dimensions of this reality. For though today's proposal or today's report is modest, the circle that affects them is not so modest, the tourist weight, that it has a connection or relationship with two important social discussions that are important at this moment. On the one hand, tourists have a very direct connection with the problem of the housing, and, on the other hand, with the question of the overture. As for the housing, we must say that the subject has recently been occupied in the global political discussion, I dare say, because in all countries the problems of the housing have been placed at the center of the political agenda. I would say, and you will forgive me for making this little digression, that a new axis of terror in a new mechanism of wealth for elites has become a residence. We've reported that in the past decade, neoliberial strumpets have been produced by taxes that the rich pay less and less taxes. We have already observed that this neoliberal attack has caused the soles of their lives, because they have less and less bribery in Western communities. And it's become the housing affair that's the third column of that projection dynamic for the elites. It is becoming more and more difficult for the simple people, for the common people, to have a home or a house directly for the greater part of the citizens, to keep them in property or rent, to face the charges they suppose. So it's not a bad problem, and that's what tourists have to do with it. In some places smaller, in other places bigger. But we may say that in our country, for an example, there are three EAE capitals situated among the cities which have the most expensive residence in the state. There's Donostia, the fourth is Bilbai and Gasteiz the seventh. Is this because there are only tourists? No. Do they have influence? Yeah. We've got to check this place, but it's working. Like Donostian, for instance, the most expensive city in state, with all the weights, 2% of the entire apartment market, is a tourist apartment. And therefore, no doubt, it affects the increase of the rates of weights and rents. Bigarren faktorea lotura zuzena daukala pisu turismokoekin da gainturistifikazioaren arazoa. And here I also wanted to make another small digression in regard to the position on tourism of Euskal Herria Bildu, because it is frequent in recent years, even in these days we have had on the part of some well-known journalist some criticism in this regard, to reproach Euskal Herria Bildu for a position contrary to tourism. That supposes, well, that logically is called the fallacy of the straw man, i.e., I accuse you of saying what you haven't said and I overrule what you haven't said; which is much easier than to overturn what you've directly said. The Basque Country is not opposed to tourism. The Basque Country has a position in favor of a balanced tourist. And the Basque Country has a firm attitude against the overture. When it becomes a problem for some to turn business and most people into a problem, tourists can become a problem. And this is not only the reflection of the Basque People gathering, but that which is becoming more and more and more hegemony in the world as they multiply the phenomena of supersturification. That is to say, touristism, but limited touristism, and when tourism becomes a problem, a controlled tourist and, incluso, deturation dynamics in certain areas. That doesn't mean, for example, the example I was talking about, and a little polemics that had been on the nets with a journalist, it's not the same thing to encourage tourism around the Seta Labe High, and that's why you agree with the budgets of the state, or to encourage more tourism in Donosta, sandribian, or already in other areas. So I said we'd make a modest contribution today, but it was essential. You need to talk to the data when you talk, not just to the sensations. And we believe that radiographs will be given us a better position in six months' time, a better beginning for each of us to follow his terms, and provide an important information to the whole society. It is true, and before referring, that there is a gap, there is a difference between the number of episodes or rooms for tourist use that are offered in the market and those that are registered in the, worth redundancy, relevant record of the Basque Government. And it's hard to know that gap in how much it's quantified. That is why today we are calling for a report which will also be a useful tool for the competent authority in the field of inspection in this field, in order to have a clearer orientation and to scale up a problem. We all know that there is an offer, the law determines or the clandestine flame, that is, the one that is not regulated, the one that is not registered, and the one that supposedly or very possibly does not meet the corresponding fiscal obligations that this activity entails. We are starting from an approach, and the fact that we have brought here today the request for this report is based on the fact that, well, apart from rumors or sensations, we can have some indication. But it is a sign that it can be formulated as a hypothesis. A previous hypothesis, a working hypothesis that will have to be confirmed precisely by a field study, as was certainly done in 2017, also at the initiative of this Parliament. But I'm going to give you some data. Right now... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... confirmed precisely by a field study, as has already been done, by the way, in 2017, also at the initiative of this Parliament. But I'm going to give you some data. At the moment, there are records in the register of the Basque Government, I will round the figures, 3,300 tourist flats and just over 600 rooms for tourist use, which means 4,000 flats and houses for tourist use in total. On the Airbnb platform, through an online service, called Inside Airbnb, which allows totaling the data of the offer of this platform in a given territory, we find that there are offered 5,000 rooms and apartments for tourist use. So, we'd already miss 1,000 there. The reality is that not all rooms and apartments for tourist use are offered exclusively through this platform, despite being the largest and best known. When the previous study that I am referring to in my speech was made in 2017, it was found that more or less to the tourist homes and flats that were in Airbnb had to be added, approximately, 25% more of the houses that were advertised on other platforms without being advertised on Airbnb, because some were advertised in several directly, applying that 25% rate that could vary, so I warn that these data are a hypothesis, are an estimate, but applying that logic, today we would find that the 5,000 homes advertised in Airbnb could be a total of 6,200 houses and rooms, I speak at all times. Therefore, 6,200 rooms and houses offered versus 4,000 registered, which obviously leads us to (?) that difference mentioned could reach 2,200; therefore, 4,000 legal, 2,200 clandestine, almost one in three or 35% illegal. The data may be smaller, then it will have to be detailed. It is true that there are also some homes announced in Airbnb that are not private or would not exactly fit the concept of tourist accommodation. These data obviously need to be cleared, but I think that the data is worrying enough to demand that we all do what we are going to do today, which is to instruct the appropriate person to carry out an analytical study that will enable us to determine whether this is the reality. The next step in the preparation of this study is clear and it is also reflected in the compromise amendment agreed with the groups that support the Government, and it is something that is somewhat tautological, because it really asks the Government to do what it really has to do, it is committed to doing and I have no doubt that it is willing to do, that it is to the extent that the most precise data of the clandestine offer have been detected and produced through this report, because more precisely it will also be able to go to those houses to try to remove them from the market, to encourage or act in a punitive way, which the law also allows it, and also why not, and I believe that this is a collateral benefit, to redirect and do what is in its hand to redirect those dwellings that are today clandestinely offered in the tourist rental market, to the residential rental, which is well needed of it. With today's subject, today's proposal, we don't waste the subject at all with the deal today. And that wasn't our intention. We know he's going to have to argue. And what we're trying to detect today is how many units there are in reality in the market, and how many of them they don't know about legalities. It is not much, but it is not few, but it is plain to us that this is the starting-point. We understand that request for other groups to stop short. But we believe, and that this is our engagement, as has been said before, that our work will continue with regard to the rest of the improper conclusions given to this phenomenon. We hope, and this was our privilege, to have a tool with the report so that we can do our work better. And so we had the priority of placing real data on the table so that we could discuss the real facts and not about speculation or sensations. So, as we say, we measure the effect or reality of the tourist weights, and, in consequence of this measure, resolve. We think we've reached a maximum saturation place. And that's got to be resisted, too. But we expect you to put all these data on the table with a sharp and adequate report and an additional tool so we can develop our work as best we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u76	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections together, the representative of the Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u77	Egun on edo etrudi on denoi. It is clear that this relationship, I was going to say harmful, between the increases and the action of the tourist flats and the problem of access to housing. It is clear to our coalition that the increase in tourist accommodation means an increase in rental prices, and therefore it is a problem to guarantee the right to housing, a subjective right under the Housing Act, but that, as we all know, because they do not exist, that right is not real in practice for many people in our country. The problem, it is true, is greater in certain cities. I believe Donostia is the most obvious case for Euskadi. According to a study carried out by UPV researchers, a rigorous study published in the prestigious scientific journal, the increase in tourist accommodation implies an increase in the price of rentals. A study whose main objective was precisely to analyze the impact of the increase of the offer of tourist apartments in the rents in Donostia. It is the Basque city where the problem is greatest and it is true that this phenomenon, which will not be generalized, logically in all the cities of Euskadi, but in certain places, and in Donostia in particular, we think it is a serious problem with consequences of first order for access to housing. In Donostia the tourist apartments have already become a real problem that remains a lot of residential offer. This is a phrase that does not say Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, although we certainly do... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... poured into a real problem that remains a lot of residential offer. This is a phrase that does not say Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, although we certainly make it ours. It is not a phrase that I have taken from some association of neighbours, although we know that many associations of neighbours make it theirs. It is not a phrase that we have taken from a platform, although we have also heard it from some citizen platforms. This sentence was said by Mario Yoldi, director of Housing Planning of the Basque Government a few years ago, who said this sentence. Therefore, from our group, we believe that yes, it is an important problem. And for this reason, our coalition has been making numerous proposals, especially in the City Hall of Donostia for some years now. The main hypothesis of this study to which I have referred was that the increase in the supply for tourism in Donostia caused long-term rental prices to rise. I think this is already recognized by everyone. And in view of the results obtained, they concluded that the hypothesis they marked was true. The results show, they said in this study, with data and empirically, that an increase of one unit in the typical deviation in the intensity of use of Airbnb implies an increase of 7.3% in the price of long-term rentals. A study on Donostia. I insist, the conclusions, it is true, are consistent with other studies carried out in various European cities, including the United States, London, New York, Boston, Paris and various cities, for example, on the Andalusian coast. Harmful effects occur in a double way. On the one hand, the higher expected profitability makes part of the rental offer go from the long to the short term, so the decrease in the rental housing offer leads to an increase in prices. On the other hand, the possibility of maximizing income from greater use of housing also increases its value as an investment, thereby increasing prices again, and thus hindering access to housing for those who need it not as an investment, but as a necessity, which should be addressed. This is happening in Euskadi, especially rudely, as I said, in Donostia, for years. The increase in the weight of tourism in the city's economy, as well as the increased presence of visitors year by year, is causing significant changes. We are not going to say that all these changes are negative. We've never held that position, but there are some that certainly do. And among them, among the negative is this, that more and more houses in the city are being allocated to the tourist rental, which is causing the increase of prices both for rent and for purchase and, therefore, also the lower offer of apartments for permanent housing. Digital platforms such as Airbnb, to which Mr Casanova has referred, control much of that market. They are not companies with a collaborative economy, as we are often told. The collaborative economy is supposedly an economic model based on shared production and consumption, and citizen collaboration. But, in real practice, we know that owners who offer tourist accommodation on the Airbnb platform do not follow these principles. To give some figures, of the 1,472 households that were announced in 2018 in Donostia, almost 25%, a quarter, were among the top ten advertisers. And in 2019, the three main advertisers offered three more than 12% of the tourist flats among them. That is why we agree with the elaboration of this comprehensive study on the actual offer of tourist flats and rooms, which should be used to update the map of compliance with the requirements of the law and regulations. But we think that not only for that, because the problem we think is not just a violation of the law and the norm, without underestimating of course this problem that exists and is real. We believe that another number of issues that we included in our amendment must also be put forward. From the public sector, corrective measures can be implemented that seek to maintain the balance between the development of the tourism sector and its positive implications, which, as I said before, have them – economic, social, cultural – and the interests of local citizens who need housing to be a right and not an inaccessible asset because of its insurmountable cost to many families and people, which is what is currently happening. Together with housing policies, we therefore believe that we should encourage and develop specific measures related to tourist rent to avoid the impact that this has on housing prices, and therefore to prevent it from being an element contrary to access to housing as a right and as a necessity. Declaration of saturated zones, limitations by zones, taxes by overnight stay, etc. Some of these issues were included in our amendment today, others were not, especially in the second point of the amendment, and we want to insist on the need and defence of them, as our colleagues in the Donostia City Hall are doing, where, as I said earlier, the problem seems to us to be particularly worrying. We also propose measures to help municipalities that need it – and of course, we believe that it would be the case of Donostia – to have the necessary means to search for and control illegal tourist homes and rooms, and to have an advisory plan to incorporate these homes into the residential rental park. In Donostia, for example, a unit within the Municipal Police was set up for such surveillance and control. Unfortunately, it seems that there is no longer such unity at this time. It is important that the affected municipalities themselves have resources and a staff dedicated to the control of the legality of the tourist flats, because they are more attached to the ground, both on the side of data collection and analysis and on the side of on-site verification. It is clear that with an inspector or 20 the results are not the same. And it is clear, in our view, that the importance of monitoring and inspecting the proliferation of tourist flats is fundamental. We think it is not being done with the intensity that would be necessary. I'd like to set an example. Between 2015 and 2017, Airbnb, which is the main marketing platform for flats in Donostia, has significantly increased its offer with about 800 most advertised tourist flats. It is estimated that three quarters of the offer was illegal... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... already considerably increased its offer with about 800 more advertised tourist flats. It is estimated that three quarters of the offer was illegal at the time. At the same time, 128 illegal tourist flats were closed by police in the same period, which means that in that period every time an illegal tourist flat disappeared five more appeared in the city; therefore, we conclude that the effort always well valued is insufficient. We'd like to ask you to vote for points in the compromise you've reached, because as I was saying, we agree with that... that this study should be done. The questions that we raised are not taken up, but we are certainly not going to oppose the initiative, but we did want to ask for that vote on points to abstain on the second and third ones. In the second, because it seems to us to be somewhat inadequate in view of this approach that I am making of not being inspected enough, and the third point, we do not have any special problems with it, but we do think that we should not set ourselves up alone. Tourist flat owners mostly opt for this model because it gives them more profitability. That is why we believe that this action can have a more limited effect. In any case, if that vote were accepted by points, we would abstain from these two and vote on the main point of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u78	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs. Larrea is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u79	Thank you, Madam President, for focusing the debate, this GNP was based on tourist flats and on the control of tourist flats. If they think that the problem that exists in the Basque Country about housing is going to be eliminated, because it is not going to be just with the tourist flats, it is a deeper problem. What I can say is that I have seen the transaction they have arrived at, I will vote in favour, because I think it is important that we have the data and the actual photograph of what is happening with the tourist flats. And on tourism, I want to say that it is a sector that we support, we all want an orderly tourism, a tourist who comes here and spends money on hospitality and makes the economy of our land thrive. But this is not a witch hunt, it is important that those who have a tourist flat declare it and pay the relevant taxes to have that tourist flat, but it is not about coming here and talking about the increase in the prices of rental housing, because also the housing, most of the rental housing contracts, are linked to the CPI and at least the revision of the contracts that will be going to be over this year will be up and surely increase an average of 50 euros. But I don't want to get into the debate about what the rent prices are going to raise, because there's also a lot that... Inflation greatly influences the value of the rental price. The other day we had a debate on this, and I refer to that debate. What is right today is to talk about the tourist flats and the need to redo that report that was made in 2017 to know what is the real photograph right now six months from what we have in hand in the Basque Country. And of course San Sebastián is a city that is suffering from mass tourism, but it is about correcting inertias, it is about promoting quality tourism, a tourism that reports us more economically to the Basques, without getting to practice a witch hunt towards those who come here, simply that they want to enjoy this land, which is a wonderful land and that they also have the right to come, even though they do not have high standing economic resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u81	Yes, thank you, President and good morning. The Basque Socialists have had sex with Euskal Herria Bildu a very similar amendment in content and form to which we had jointly raised with the Basque Nationalist Group on the initiative they had put forward. The Socialists believe that tourism is a key sector for the Basque economy, because it accounts for 6.9% of gross domestic product. It exceeds €5 billion in turnover in 2019 for the first time, and more than 100,000 people work in this sector. In 2019, the year before the pandemic, nearly 4 million people visited us, an increase from 2018 of 3.2%. We are talking about more than 120,000 new visitors, also increasing overnight stays by 3.8%. The arrival of the pandemic in 2020 means that both admissions and overnight stays in hotels in the whole of that year will collapse for tourism in Euskadi, and there is a 61.1% decrease in admissions and 61.5% decrease in overnight stays compared to 2019. December 2020 concluded, for example, with 41.1% of hotels closed every day of the month. And before the summer, this same year 2021, we had the opportunity to hear in this Parliament the representatives of rural accommodation about the situation they had suffered and their prospects for this year 2021. The pandemic, therefore, has greatly affected Basque tourism. 41% of the sector has been affected by ERTE, all of its subsectors have suffered its impact and many of them have virtually no income throughout 2020 and much of 2021. For this reason, the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs has invested the effort in the management of aid programmes to the sector, amounting to EUR 83.1 million. 6,300 applications have been managed under the Aid programme for the tourism sector, 1,689 applications under the Aid programme for the support of the Basque tourism sector, and 841 applications under the regular programmes for the marketing of tourist products, territorial tourism projects and aid for entrepreneurship and the improvement of the competitiveness of tourism enterprises. Councilman Javier Hurtado, in his appearance a few weeks ago, explained to us the budget lines of his department and how to... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... of tourism enterprises. Councilman Javier Hurtado at his appearance a few weeks ago explained to us the budget lines of his department and how to add to the regular funds almost 24 million euros of European funds for investments in tourist sustainability plans in destination in different municipalities and regions, and another 3.3 million euros for the rehabilitation of the historical tourist heritage for public use. The adviser also explained to us the investment effort aimed at dealing with different interventions in the areas of preference. The Next Generation funds will undoubtedly lead to improved competitiveness and transformation of the Basque tourism sector, and thus the strategy of tourism sustainability in destinations will inject 67 million euros into tourism projects for Euskadi for three years. We have been and are in a model of sustainable tourism, responsible tourism, strategy and tourism management that also incorporates the United Nations sustainable development goals. And in the tourism sector, a key sector for the Basque economy, there are, among other aspects, the housing figures of houses and rooms for tourist use. Figures whose regulations appear in 2016 in the Basque Tourism Act as new for the use of new communication technologies, although we must also remember that in 2008 the Tourism Act abolished this type of accommodation, because they were not considered relevant. Well, it's rained, huh, and things have changed. We must also consider the fact that the houses and rooms for tourist use are tourist accommodation companies, and in order to begin their exercise it is necessary to present a responsible declaration that implies their registration in the register of enterprises and tourist activities of Euskadi, as well as to conform to the specific regime that is established in the development of the law, in Decree specifically 101, of July 2018. And in the parliamentary debate of 2017 on the elaboration also of an integral study on the houses and rooms of tourist use we did not then have in that debate of that Decree 101 of 3 July 2018 approved by the Basque Government. And this is an important fact because it is the norm that regulates this activity according to different realities and respecting different principles. The emergence of new electronic marketing channels that make it possible to link the holders of the tourist goods or services with the persons, with the potential users, the need to comply with the applicable regulations, both the town planning and the prosecutor and the principles of freedom of establishment and legality, as well as the protection of the users and the principle of municipal autonomy. And the procedure established for this activity is that of the presentation of the declaration responsible for initiating the activity, whose registration is validated by the technical staff of the Territorial Tourist Offices, the procedure of verification of compliance with the requirements is initiated by the Tourist Administration within a maximum of six months, and it is then when the decree states that the municipal report must be requested, which will be mandatory and binding, granting a period of three months to the municipalities to forward it. Interlocution between tourist administrations and municipalities is regular, but it is true that verification procedures, both by the tourist administration and by the municipal administration, are often lengthy over time, because the legal guarantees of natural or legal persons carrying out such activities must be respected. And the verification and inspection procedures are initiated by two channels, either on their own initiative from the Directorate of Tourism and Hospitality or by the arrival of anonymous or formal complaints through established channels. In addition, there are also associations in the sector that report possible irregularities that are found in inspection. A fact that Mr. Casanova has given before. A total of 13,381 private dwellings for tourist use are currently registered in the Euskadi Register of Business and Tourist Activities, and 632 rooms for tourist use are registered. It is also true that the highs and lows in the register of tourist homes have been intense and continuous, almost 30% of those that were ever registered are no longer well. Well, we find interesting and important the agreement that we have reached on the elaboration in six months of this comprehensive study on the actual offer of houses and rooms for tourist use in order to obtain this updated X-ray of the sector and to verify that the requirements of both the law and the decree regulating it are being met. In addition, we believe that it is necessary to continue, as it could not otherwise be, with the inspection work and the control task for the cessation of the clandestine supply, and that tools such as this box of citizen complaints are also implemented, which provide information, and also provide, pardon, relevant information to the owners of the houses and rooms so that they can know these alternatives and advantages of the residential rental sector. The Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption has always considered it positive to constantly analyse and evaluate the different sectors that make up the tourism value chain in Euskadi, and also, as it could not otherwise be, the sector of tourist homes and rooms, having, of course, to inspect and punish those who do not comply with the regulations. But the Basque socialists we leave, we fulfill the..., we share the objective, but we start from different premises to those proposed by Euskal Herria Bildu to reach the objective of developing this study of the reality of tourist homes. Because Euskal Herria Bildu concludes that only with seeing marketing platforms are hundreds or thousands of homes that do not meet the requirements for registration. In addition, Bildu's correlation of this type of accommodation with the tourist massification, or that they are a determining factor on the price of the housing, we do not share it, and I explain myself. First, because we understand that from the reading of the offers of the marketing platforms it cannot be concluded that there are hundreds or surely thousands of tourist homes and rooms that do not meet the registration requirements, because the owners seek on the platforms to position their product in the best way and they advertise or advertise the same house or rooms on the various platforms and in a different way, even on the same platform to improve their attractiveness. We are talking about doubling or tripling those bids that are announced. Secondly, because there is no tourist massification problem in Euskadi. There may be occasional or punctual peaks in areas or with specific resources, but not in a general way, because not any dwelling or room can be tourist accommodation either by autonomous regulations or by municipal regulations. And thirdly, with regard to... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ... housing or any room can be tourist accommodation, either by autonomous regulation or by municipal regulation. And thirdly, with regard to the fact that there are studies that relate directly as a determining factor in the increase in the price of rental of tourist homes, tourist rooms, tell them that the studies do not take into account multiple factors that affect that price of rental of the housing. And that's also important. Some people have been talking about a study of professors at the UPV. But there are also studies in Boston on how platforms affect this increase in housing rental. And they have nothing to do with the study that the teachers have done. I don't want to run into different studies and reports. But, of course, do not analyze that there are other factors, such as the issue of the demand for rent or the decrease of unemployment or the difficulties of buying or leading to the increase of the rent, the shortage of housing for rent, and, finally, the increase of the holiday rent, it seems to me that it is going to go to the thick stroke and that it does not really respond to the reality of what we are planning to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Grajers, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u83	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Congressmen, friends, chief officers, good days to all. I have often quoted from this tribe one of those messages which appears in the monument of the Forum at Iruña, which the Basques begin with words. I'm not going to read you again today, but I think that, in that text, there's a way of being in it. And with this spirit the law of 13/2016 was admitted at the last full meeting of legislation. This law was born with the intent of regulating it. Nothing to forbid, but to organize and protect, and regulate the offer of lodgings in this country. The sector petitioned to regulate this offer at its own time. And the subject was examined, contracted, and made up for the execution of it as well as possible. In this respect this law is favorable to openness, as well as to the opportunity of extending business and tourist activity. But besides this, he prescribes the conditions of doing so. I mean, we don't forbid it, but we don't absolutely and without any control liberalize our hostelry. By this law, the housing units in the tourists' houses are regulated and the function of renting the housing rooms for the tourist use. For he considers the new usages and customs of the present day, by establishing new figures which had hitherto been neglected. And it protects the activity of travellers who visit us and visit us, not forgetting what we live and work here every day. This rule has been able to reflect and update certain aspects of the reality of tourism, which, at the time of regulating it, required specific accuracy. The 101/2018 Decree arrived later, a decree with a direct relation to the subject of the present day. And all that work that has been done since, is giving birth to the sector where ad hoc was needed. The new inn patterns, the virtual markets, the environment and the accessal aspects of people, for example, which have been permanently and exclusively included. In the same way and in connection with this last part of suffering, Euskaudai had to determine what tourism we want. A turpitism of quality which attracts men, but which allows us to be what we are: without losing our personality, our values, our culture or our landscape. In fact, these are the aspects that attract people to us. And if we protect them through time, they will bring back the permanent, bearable, modern, and quality of which we aim. Or, rather, they'll keep coming. Only with similar game rules, with transparency, can be produced a sector of quality, which will produce competitive and high-quality employments. In Tourism, it cannot compete with different rules, and still less with no rule, because, in the end, employment and the quality of the offer will be spoiled. But the time has come, Mr. Counsellor, as I told you at your last appearance, to put aside the urgency, the pandemic, in this case, to continue working on what is important. That is to say, we need to refocus on all the problems that the tourism sector has already faced before March 2020, and all the challenges that it faced, and it has continued to work, during this sad stage, in which, let us not forget, the pandemic has very strongly affected Basque tourism, with all its sub-sectors affected and many of them with virtually no income throughout 2020 and much of 2021. Let us not forget the importance of tourism, not only from the point of view of Gross Domestic Product, but its ability to generate quality jobs or its importance in the vertebration of our towns and cities. Moreover, since the collaboration between institutions, we must continue to strengthen the country brand, using our strengths and strengthening our weaknesses, so that Euskadi is known and recognized as a destination of excellence and quality at the global level. We are talking about economics, competitiveness, jobs, but also territorial vertebration, social, economic and environmental sustainability. In short, in a way of understanding life, in a way of being in the world. The compromise we have reached is therefore a reflection of this need and of this point of view. We need to know what the current photograph of the sector is and check that it meets the standards to know how it is forming, dimensioning and configuring a sector, worth redundancy, more and more stable... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ... and check that it meets the standards to know how it is forming, dimensioning and configuring a sector, worth redundancy, increasingly stable. In addition, all the administrations involved, government, municipalities, must continue to control to prevent the proliferation of clandestine supply, and, if necessary, as we say, in that transaction, reinforce it. For this, unfortunately, we already know that the Department, as it has shown this past year, has the waist to face these kinds of challenges with capacity. Between the charro and the mask... And finally, the Government will have to report on the possible advantages that residential rental might have in relation to tourist use. Mass tourism is a relatively new phenomenon that requires special and continuous attention. More in these times of technological revolution that has brought us unimaginable phenomena just a few years ago. But this country has for years attracted people from other lands, more than 200 years ago, the Berliner Wilhelm von Humboldt, who with his brother today gives name to the University of his city, Berlin, wrote: "Hide between mountains, inhabits the two slopes of the West Pyrenees a town that has preserved for a long series of centuries its primitive language and, to a large extent, also its old regime and customs. According to the happy expression of a modern writer, he has taken away both the gaze of the observer and the sword of the conquered. The people of the Basques." Since these words have been written 200 years, many things have changed in this land. But the passion for our language, our manners, and independence are standing there. There is no mountain that hides us, no sword that threatens us. So, at this time, Euskakia is open in the open world. I'm sorry, but I'm in the middle of the world. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. And we have to tell the world there's Euskawadi-Basque Countrymark. Euskadi-Basque Countrymark stronger, and who we are, we must tell the world aloud what we are. And give to him who comes to us the warmest welcome and the best welcome, without losing what we are. Orix said: "Then let us say, 'There was a people.' Or let us breathe on this." And we've been working on it since 1895. We're on our way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u84	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Passing on the line of uncorrected teams, Mistya, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. We do not live in Barcelona, Benidorm or Madrid, this is the Basque Country. Far from being a first-class tourist power, but a region where things are going well, which has gradually been placed on the map and which also has important tourism revenues. Income, jobs, prospects for the future. According to the Basque Institute of Statistics, in 2019 we received almost 2 million foreign tourists who spent just over 1.2 billion euros. We talk about tourists who hire services with travel agencies, arrive at our airports, rent cars or travel by taxi and public transport, eat in our bars and restaurants, visit museums and art galleries, buy in shops, shops, locals and, of course, spend the night in our cities. What for Bildu is massification and overexploitation tourism, for Vox is 3% of GDP. They are income of almost 2 million euros and employment for 103,000 people in accommodations, in hotels and as tour guides. The tourist exploitation is for Vox wealth for Spain and, therefore, for the Basque Country. And let us not forget what is falling into the sector, largely as a result of the severe restrictions imposed on and outside this region. A reason to avoid laws that are impossible to comply with and insurmountable, bureaucratic barriers for those who have the possibility to get a legal and reasonable return to their properties. Before carrying out studies, before encouraging campaigns about the kindness of residential rent, before chasing the offender, it would be fair to demand some self-criticism from them. And we could start by harmonising the different rules in force. And to the examples I'm going to refer. The starting point is the Tourism Law of 2016, developed in a decree of 2018 and different regulations, depending almost on each municipality. Thus, for example, in Bilbao there can only be one rental house for tourist use per building, and this has to be on the first floor. While, for example, in San Sebastián the city has been divided into areas, in some it is completely forbidden to offer houses or tourist rooms. The truth is that doing so is a bureaucratic yincan that slows down more than animate, and that also invites to bypass the rules. In Vox we believe that it is not the time to pursue those who want to live from tourism, those who encourage others to receive income from the tourists who visit us. And it is absolutely inappropriate to demonize those who choose tourist homes and rooms as a business option. Here we talk at all times of pursuing, of monitoring compliance with the rules, at no time is self-criticism made and the sector is being valued. Of course, the laws must be complied with, that is fundamental. But, on the other hand, the ruling parties bring to light the box of citizens' complaints. The one where everything belongs, from the truth to the most crooked and dirty intentions. We believe that this is not the way to solve this type of problem. Avoid unbearable red tape, give real possibilities, and clandestine tourist homes will be easy to disappear; they will be an anomaly. And don't forget to protect the tenant, also to those who offer this kind of services to their town or city, instead of threatening the gain of envy and hatred. They do not create a non-existent problem and stop pointing with their fingers to those who, without evidence, treat themselves as guilty and encourage families and self-employed people to undertake so that the Basque Country continues to grow as a tourist power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u86	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing in response turn, representative of the EH Collect Group... [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]] ... so that the Basque Country continues to grow as a tourist power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u87	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing on the day's answers, representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u88	I'm out of my mind. Well, I wish the problem of housing shortage and rental prices were exclusively motivated, was exclusively motivated by tourist apartments. I wish it were that simple. Then we take off the tourist flats and fix one of the first problems that today's society has, not only in our country, but I think on a global level. It's just that we didn't say that. What we have said is that it is related. It's not the same as being related to being the only cause. And indeed, it's related. Mr Hernández mentioned a study in which he spoke of an incidence of up to 7.5% in the rise in rental prices, because it is related, and especially in cities such as Donosti where up to 2% of the housing stock is destined for tourist flats. It is therefore indeed related. Help, not help; aggravate, aggravate. And it will have to be determined to what extent, but the only studies we have – if there are others who stand on the table – say yes, which, in fact, aggravates. And another question, Mrs. Corcuera. I don't know exactly how many floors are out of the law or in the underground offer. I have made an estimate, and with transparency I have said on the basis of (...). When the previous report was made, in 2017, it was mentioned that there were a total of 3,657 floors, once the exurgation, let's say, of the duplicates, of which (...) in various ways and so, when in Airbnb there were 2,800. That is, if there were 2,800 in Aribnb, there were 3,600 in total. I have made a rule of three and formulated it as a very prudent hypothesis, because, in fact, there may be new factors, Airbnb has been able to gain more weight within the set of platforms. From the prudence. What I am telling you is that last time there was a 25% more offer than was reflected in Airbnb once the duplicates were purged, and that if that were kept in that situation we would find ourselves before almost a third of the houses is not that they cannot comply, but that they do not comply. They may or may not comply, but they do not, because, in fact, the numbers of those registered do not match the numbers of those offered. That's what I meant. Eskertu nahi dut, amaitu bathe lehen, eskertu nahi dut zerorri, to yourself, Mrs. Corcuera, to Mr. Grajales. I want to thank you for your readiness for this agreement. The rest of the groups that are going to vote in favour of their attitude too. And I believe that the nuclear part of today's agreement has virtually unanimous support not only for this House, but for all the actors concerned. I would dare say, without standing as a spokesman for anyone, that even of the associations themselves that market tourist flats within the law. Because I don't think anyone bothers more with a clandestine offer (...) than the one who is acting within the law paying some taxes and passing some formalities that others pass, yes, but through the arch of triumph. Therefore, I believe, and what about the hotels that have been demanding greater rigour in the control of this offer and that little less that they have said that there is a free bar, which I do not know to what extent it can be so. But in any case, we're going to get out of doubt. And we're going to get out of doubt about the way in which we have to continue, with a report that makes an advisory, that dedicates some professionals to analysis, that is an analysis that is expensive, that is almost a work of craftsmanship, that we have to go one by one purging all the web pages and so on. But, well, once we get those results, it is when today's agreement may already fade into a different political debate, in which everyone will interpret those data in one way or another. Pero yo no quería, y esto un poco en (... ) tant si en respuesta, sino en diálogo co el señor Hernández. It was clear that we didn't want to bring him here today, or that we didn't want to bring the discussion about the turism model, or the discussion about the arresting or the appearance of tourists. We know that this discussion is very difficult to get practical agreements out of here today. These discussions must be given, and shall certainly be given. And our group maintains commitment to keep these discussions alive, because we believe that this phenomenon and the problem is going to rise, so we have to face them. But what we wanted today was to give us a low but important step in the knowledge of the phenomenon. And that's what I think we made. And I'm not going to stay here any longer because there's a big deal. And again, thank you all who have contributed, and especially the members of the middle course.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u89	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. Hernandez, together, Podemos-Nozera must not be involved. Basque Popular Group-Ciudad, Mrs. Larre, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u90	(...) to say that this is not black and white, to be in favour of tourism or against. This goes so far as to say that there is an economic sector that has legislation that must be respected, that the legislation gives consumer safety and security to the person who offers the service, and it is about bringing to light a tax fraud that may exist, and that... So, these reports that are going to be made will give us certainties and realities to whom we have to exercise or legislate in this regard. From our group, we are in favour of improving the economy, of orderly tourism and of the tourism sector continuing to grow in line with legality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u92	Yeah. Thank you, President. I just wanted to make some comment, because I didn't have time before and I didn't want to get over it. Firstly, what I have said is that the Basque Socialists do not share the premises laid down by Euskal Herria Bildu in his initiative. We have shared the objective of developing this comprehensive study on tourist homes and tourist rooms. But, look, Mr. Casanova, you said on your initiative: "On the other hand, the supply of tourist homes is assuming that more and more homes disappear from the residential rental market, which directly influences the growing spiral of increased rents." So, of course, if we go into the nuance "no, it's not that this doesn't mean everything, that it's a determining factor." Well, and then Mr. Hernandez has completed it with his intervention. We want to say that..., the three questions that you raised. The issue of platforms and thousands of clandestine dwellings that you take out with a study that purifies you do not know how or why... [[End of tape 42]] [[Begin of tape 43]] ... the three questions you raised. The issue of platforms and thousands of clandestine dwellings that you take out with a study that you purge, we don't know how or why you purge it, and it says that there are so many thousands, or hundreds or thousands of clandestine dwellings. Well, I think we're talking about marketing platforms where the owners of these homes, logically, what they're looking for is to position their product in the best conditions. And it is not uncommon, therefore, to find homes advertised twice on the same platform with different ways to improve their attractiveness. And, likewise, it is also not unusual for the same house to be offered on several different platforms. Therefore, from these readings of the offers it cannot be concluded, as Euskal Herria Bildu proposes, that there are hundreds or thousands of houses and rooms for tourist use that do not meet the basic requirements to register in the Register. The study will tell us what the real offer is. As for massification, I want to say that in Basque there is no general problem of tourist massification, there is no general problem of tourist massification. There may be some peaks in some areas with some specific resources in our territories. But neither do you take into account the so-called... the weight of so-called hikers. Because it cannot be said that any dwelling, in the end, can be converted into tourist accommodation because it is not true. That the capacity of towns and cities to host tourism increases ad infinitum, you say, which increasingly generates realities of overexploitation. That's what you say from Bildu. Because the consideration of tourist requires overnight stay. And that's not the case with hikers. And, on the other hand, any dwelling cannot become a dwelling for tourist use, a room for tourist use. It had to do so in the Register of Activities, according to the Euskadi Tourism Act and according to Decree 101. And as far as homelessness is concerned. Look, we can talk about studies of all kinds. Mr Hernández has taken out that of the four researchers from the University of the Basque Country, who also carry out a specific investigation on the question of the imputation of access to tourist homes with the increase in rental prices. Well, I also have the study of the impact of platforms on the real estate market that is done in Boston with the technique of instrumental variables to isolate the part of the housing costs that is due to the arrival of platforms, and that says that the increase of 1% of the offer causes the increase of 0.018 % in the rent rates and 0.026 % in the price of the housing. What I'm saying is, of course, I'm walking here bumping or contrasting studies of one another and studies of another, well, so studies for tastes. However, what I am saying is that you cannot declare as a determining factor in the increase in the price of housing rental the question of tourist homes, tourist rooms, because there are other factors to consider and to take into account. And I think you're smart enough to understand me perfectly. Because, of course, if we isolate tourist homes, we do an express, specific study on this issue, logically, will increase the rent. Hey, how much? What percentage increases rent relative to the factor of the increase in rent demand relative to the declines in unemployment and greater economic capacity to buy housing? On what factor or on what term can be placed, on what level the difficulties to buy housing and then results from the increase in rented housing? On what level do we put tourist homes with regard to the shortage of rented housing in this general Euskadi? Of course, there are many factors. We can't isolate one because we can. Because the debate – I don't know who was saying it – the debate is more generic and more general if we want to talk about the increase in the price of renting the house or the house itself. Look, I'm a donor. I have lived in a city hall for many years in which the price of housing, the price of housing, was deorbited. Do you know that then you did not take into account what it was about tourist homes or tourist rooms? Of course, we have to concentrate or focus the debate on what really matters, and it is that comprehensive study of tourist homes. And I'm glad and...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u93	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u94	... I'm happy with the agreement we've reached. And thank you (...?)).
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u95	Thank you. Mr. Grakiles mustn't speak a word. Mrs Martínnez. He mustn't speak. Dots, yes, dots. After discussion, we'll vote for EH, the EEkal Socialists and the Middle Amendment signed by Eucalists. No points requested. I guess there's no problem. So we vote for the first point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 71; votes given, 72; supporters 72; counters, 0; abstaining, 0; white; 0, 0; 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u96	So the first point is unanimously accepted. Next, we vote for 2 and 3 points. We can vote. [[End of tape 43.]] [[Begin of tape 44.]] [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; the votes given, 71; the opponents 72; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 0; white; 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u97	So the first point is unanimously accepted. Next, we'll vote for two and three points. We can vote. Now we can vote... [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 71; in favour of the enemy, 66; the contrary, 1. Abstations, 5; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-25.u98	So two and three points have been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at two-and-twenty o'clock in the afternoon.
