ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "The question is, that Leixus, the Arriguega Arruzana Eubertarians are members of the community of the community to the head of the Board of Education, about the development and condition of COVID in the Schools." Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, good morning to all. From the beginning of this year's education schools are making great effort for students to continue their studies in front of them. There are teams of directors, teachers, students and families showing commitment and responsibility for schools to make sure. All this effort must, moreover, be added to the complication of various agents and institutions, whose contribution is directly strengthened by the development of this year's apprenticeship. The situation in which Pandemia has been in the schools, is at this moment in?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. You're the one with the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u3	Mrs. President of the Parliament. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning. My dear lady, considering the difficult situation we live in in in society, having known our troubles and doubts before our education began, I would tell you that the state of college is better than what we thought at first. The effort that the unit of education is doing is terrible. Our latest data in this situation shows that 88% of all rooms are open, and that all schools are currently open. If we keep this up, we're thinking we're dreaming about our goal five months ago. We must be wise till we have done our purpose. But we must confess that the whole educational authority is doing it. It's not easy, but colleges have become a safe place, which gives us all the confidence and comfort. The school managers, teachers, students, students themselves, and the best families have for the past few months. Of course, we're not alone in this fight, I want to thank you for the health department and the duty and protection of the Osar. We meet every week to study the situation and improve the given service. He's being exemplary, the answer to the entire company of the Cinnaduis, the silent, professional, and brilliant work. We've also developed a local plan with the councils. I know very well how important it is for a people to have no trouble at local schools, and if there is any solution. We've been paying special attention to councils and their needs from the Board of Education. The health protocols in the schools have brought in an expense increase, and we have solved it by consent. So we've made a deal of 2 million and a half euros to secure Eudel's toilet in the schools. And in the same way, we've also pushed new covered areas to work with the municipals. We've accepted all the proposals received, and this decision allows us to put 110 tentes into several Basque schools. Joint work, collaboration. And collaboration to deal with the pandemic and ensure face-to-face education. I have appreciated the work of the educational community, and I would also like to thank the work of the educational administration. First, in the elaboration of the protocols that are allowing us to guarantee the continuity of classroom education. Secondly, speeding up self-management to respond agilely to the needs that have been raised. Thus, since the beginning of the course, we have hired more than a thousand new teachers, more than a thousand reinforcement professionals for the services of dining, cleaning or transport. We have agreed on additional financial support for the concerted network to ensure their professional needs. We have completed more than 20,000 replacement contracts, to have all the necessary professionals every day, every day. It has been five months of delivery, intense work and collaboration. And we have walked only half the way, but we are closer to the dream goal, which is to complete the course with the guarantee of face-to-face education. How are the courses? You asked. A lot of hard work, resisting problems, completely involved, and always serving our students. That's the personality of our education system that's so proud of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u4	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, which was made by the parliamentary members of the Maddalen Irina Pregregated to the president, to live around the New World." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u5	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, Mr. President. And first of all, thank you so much for the cheers you sent 15 days ago. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Urkullu, I read with great care the New Year's Plan of Life. And, more than facing a crisis, I have found that this government is a document to praise: no scientific allusions, no accurate analysis of the situation, much less the new strategy of the future. Sometimes the reading of New Life II has given me more data than is intended to do with the New World. In the first hypothesis of the executive sumptuary, the wager is to obtain the stability of the independence, that is to say, it is less than 300 percent of the population. And I wanted to ask you what criteria it was used for that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u7	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. Mrs. Irriture, New Life relies on five references to get targets. the examination of the daily cases and contacts of the health authorities, the experience of these months, without needing to appeal to domestic confidence, the criteria of the European Union, the arrangements of the State to co-ordinate the pandemy, and the development of the three summits of the first wave and the second wave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u9	Mr. President, but it's not the same thing as 60 or 300, it's very different, and it places us on different scenarios. We can say that it's three hundred, a verlas ventir. During fourteen days, the independence of 300 cases of a hundred thousand inhabitants means that we should arrive in the summer with nearly seventy-two thousand more cases, and with a number of deaths which I do not wish to mention, if the rate of our present day was received. And I think, like society, we can't accept that. Eta badakit ez dagoela formula magikorik. There are no magic formulas, but neither will this disappear by magic art. And you're getting to normalize and give up some terrible levels of incidence, because we're down from 500 and people seem to be breathing. And, indeed, according to what indices we've been on, it's like breathing, but you know that those indices are very serious. They're very serious. And you know, and I will remind you, the data from the Centre for Disease Prevention and Control in Europe, which says that any rate of more than 60 cases per 100,000 inhabitants in 14 days is high, and that any death rate above 10 deaths per million inhabitants in 14 days must be alarming. And this is what we have to deal with, and I don't see that there are any wieners in that plan, which demands rigour for itself, so that we can turn this around. I know it's hard, I know we have a lot of difficulties, but I think there are things that can be started. I want to ask you one more question: What do you think of cases that may be serious among people who can take the COVID? It's a question beyond the possibility of collapse from hospitals. Look, I think the tendency can be improved. We don't have all the tools, so I agree with you, we don't have them. But there are certain measures that can be established. The Basque People came yesterday with two sets of proposals, which they refused to accept. I think you must not be kept in absolute majority, and that other proposals may be seen to be useful. There are some who are easy: In the first place, the work of telelan became much stronger. The work of telegraph is, in some measure, relieved by public transportation. The steps and improvements which may be made about the definition of cases and the isolation of cases, I think they would be useful; support the public services, strengthen the Osarides, and protect the injured sectors. I think it's essential. I believe that a plan is urgently needed, as soon as possible, in order to be able to respond to the situations and scenarios that we have to face. If they're better, much better. But, of course, I do not think that this plan can respond to the period from February to June that we are being asked to do. The leadership, the community, the work, and the transparency will be the best implant, with Mr. Urkullu, I think, with the actual vaccine, with the effort to reach it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Irritart, the object of the New World III Plan, of the Third, the New II before and of New Life in general, is the aim of the New World, to place the rate of independence from the 60th of a hundred thousand inhabitants. If you have read well, as you say, that is the fixed thing: To seek below 60 cases. That's the goal established all over Europe. even what we have established for the Basques, and which I have more than once alluded to, even in the Parliament itself. This is why, in the first stage, we've established a purpose to lower 300 cases. In November, it was a case of 844, the day the most cases were there; this month 668, and now less than 400. So when we do our exams every day and based on reference, based on this research, the New World Plan has taken notice of the recommendations of the technical experts of Labi's technical committee and sees it possible to descend from 300 cases in the first stage, the goal is to arrive at 60. The quest allows us to be optimistic, as regards the attainment of the end. This week we learned that half the number of positive cases detected in the world have descended from the last epidemic. Today, these assets are for us: The accuracy of the tracking of contamination and positive examinations, the small level of infection in the education system, the insertion, the high degree of prevention and self-possession, the efficiency of the acquired measures, the commitment and quality of professional groups, the treatment of disease, and the budget of new economic resources. At the same time the dangers are these: new variations, mobileness and social interaction, or delays possible in the supply of vaccines. About a year ago, we set up health and formed Labi. The first wave was past our domestic confinement. We're over the second one without hitting it that far. After the summer, the two highest quotas occurred on 11 November – with 844 cases – and on 2 February –668 – without having reached the November quota. The incidence has now been reduced below the 400 cases, and I believe that this is a significant achievement taking into account the circumstances of December and early January, in a context of increased mobility and social and family encounters. Something will also have helped the measures taken within the framework of the Labi. And this downward trend therefore responds to the forecast of the technical committee of the Labi. And if we continue to strictly comply with the measures, we can reach the rate of less than 300 cases in this first phase, with the aim of reaching the 60 cases, so many times mentioned by me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Ekain Rico, a member of the Basque Socialists, of the second vice president, and the chief physician of the Ekaco and the Ezamas of the Social Council, made of the Second Vice President and Work and Eplegus, about cutting off the wages between women and men." Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Vice-Lehendakari, as you know, next 22 February will be 10 years since the Spanish Government celebrated the Day of Equal Pay for the first time, a date that serves to raise awareness of the wage gap that women face vis-à-vis men. The need to continue to raise awareness of this serious discrimination, which is also at the root of other inequalities suffered by women, has led the European Union to adopt this celebration as well. And the truth is that since then it has suffered different variations, but we, the Socialists, find it interesting to bring this anniversary here and put it in relation to the various intense policies and actions that the Government is developing in relation to the fight against inequalities and discrimination. For example, you, Mrs Vice-Lehendakari, have taken up the challenge of continuing to act against the wage gap and promoting equal pay in a strategy, in addition, designed to promote decent employment. And all these commitments that you have also made are not mere statements. In the budgets adopted last week in this Parliament, you have, for example, included more than EUR 1,400,000 for specific actions under the heading of combating the wage gap, inspections to ensure equality and the promotion of entrepreneurship and talent. And by the way, more than 80% of these measures are completely new measures. In relation to all this, and, moreover, because you know of the commitment of socialists to the eradication of all kinds of inequalities and the specific commitment in the fight against the wage gap, we ask you what actions will be taken to address this wage gap that women suffer unjustly in our world of work. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u14	Thank you, Mr. Rico. To answer, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u15	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, President. Good morning, chief of departments. You know, it's just a plan to get on equality from the workshops. We don't start from scratch, we've come a long way. During the preceding law, we accepted the pay-in-law strategy and the stern plan. And in this, we'll go on that way. A week ago, the parliament agreed to new budgets, and we're going to act on them. With new proposals, yes, with new initiatives, because pandemia cannot be an excuse for equality. On 22 February, in addition to keeping in mind Vice-Lehendakari and Councillor Fernando Buesa, a major driver of social policies, we will recall that the cause of equality was not on the agenda of governments until ten years ago. It also allows us to recall that the work against the wage gap is more effective when political stability and a clear road map to solve problems are offered by the Government. These days we see again in Catalonia the difficulty to offer this governability at the service of all citizens. Feelings and identities above health, economic and social rescue and equality are once again placed at the heart of the debate. In Euskadi, however, we are focused on governing for all. And this is what also allows us to follow the path of equal pay. We haven't even forgotten about the pandemic. That is why we maintained a social awareness campaign against the wage gap by closing last year. This anniversary also comes to us eleven days after this Government has new budgets that strengthen our programmes and incorporate new ones. And thanks to these budgets, I would like to inform you that we are already on the road to promoting new actions for women's entrepreneurship and leadership in corporate bodies. A way to break glass ceilings to access responsible and better paid jobs. And since Lanbide we have already designed a programme for the training and recruitment of women in masculinized fields, for women's access to jobs where they are clearly underrepresented and where wages are better, as in the industrial sector. Also next week we re-edit the book The Work of Equal Value, a practical guide to identify gender-free jobs. All groups will have this manual, which we will also bring to the social and economic actors. But, in addition, we are going to propose to those agents that they implement this guide in some companies as a pilot project to draw conclusions of improvement. And next Thursday we will celebrate a day of occupational health from a gender perspective. In addition, throughout the year we will publish a study on the treatment of equality between men and women in the collective agreements in force in Euskadi. The Labour Inspectorate will rely on the technological tool to combat labour fraud to carry out a specific plan against the wage gap. We will design a new campaign that will spread the value of equality plans. Plans that since March 8 extend to companies with more than 100 workers. Finally, next autumn we will convene a congress on the wage gap, which we would also like representatives of all parliamentary groups to attend. Therefore, we will not be able to commemorate this anniversary as we would like, but we have provided ourselves with tools and budgets so that the pandemic does not prevent us from continuing on the road to combating the wage gap in the workplace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. The sixth point is cancelled. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the hatred of Mi is made by the members of the Podemos IU team to the president about the state of the hostess." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u17	Mrs. I: Thank you, ma'am. Good morning. Well, the previous week, the Chief Justice Court of Eucharady gave up the decree which promised to close the host. What do you think about the situation that's been through these past few weeks?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatage, I don't think that's the car. In any case, the host is living with difficult, uncertain moments, like many other sectors and economic activities caused by the whole society and the pandademies, as was acknowledged here yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u21	Mr. President, you say no, but I think the car is pretty smart in that sense. I mean, it's not just a car that's said by a wrong judge, but a car given by an organ that's made up of three members. And what is said in it is that the decree has not a sufficient legal and technical basis for such a decision. And besides, it is a reasonably legal and technical reason that we ourselves have asked for in November, and then we were told that they were also acting thus in other adjoining places, and that this reason was sufficient. And you didn't give any further reports about why the closures were justified, because there was a greater concentration of contortions. And they complain of that as well as your hostess. They say there's not enough data to prove it. And besides, that complaint of the hosts, he was una queja expresse. And it is that Euskadi, according to the last report of the National Epidemiological Surveillance Network, is the autonomous community that has the least data, and of every 100 people we only know the scope of exposure of a dozen of them; that is, things are not doing well in that sense. So, of course, how will the judges have no doubts if we have so little information! It is precisely this lack of information that generates a lack of legal certainty and not the lack of an anti-COVID law. It might be interesting to have an antiCOVID law, but the question is: to regulate what? Because, of course, an anti-COVID law has been announced, it has been announced above all as a threat to the lack of a case that the Madrid Government could do to us, but we have no idea what that law is going to consist of. Under no circumstances will that law allow rights or freedoms to be restricted, for example, without a sufficient scientific-technical basis that makes it possible. And, in any case, I would like to emphasize one thing, and it is that the perfect opportunity to pass the anti-COVID law has been missed here. The magic and perfect antiCOVID law, but really, were the Basque budgets, because through the budgets it is precisely how you can hire more health personnel, how you can improve the conditions of residences and how you can take so many and so many measures that are true antiCOVID laws. We do not need a law to increase the frequencies of public transport, we do not need a law to accompany the decision to close the hotel with direct compensatory measures, direct economic aid. Let's not blame the judges so much for the lack of state laws. Let's assume that Euskadi still has a lot of room for manoeuvre to act without the need for an express anti-COVID law to act against the covid, which seems that the absolute majority is climbing a little bit to their head and walking like chicken without a head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Gorrotxategi, it is not really clear to me whether you really care about the hospitality sector, it is not clear to me what was your original question and what was your presentation in the gallery. You haven't made a reference, more than by passing through what is the judge's or the Administrative Litigation Chamber's car, and I see that you align with the probationary car. You'll get to the bottom of it. In any case, with regard to the doubt about the data, the criteria on which we take decisions, look, we take decisions on the basis of the recommendations of the health authorities, as well as other governments, including Spanish or the autonomous ones in which you participate, Mrs Gorrotxategi. We have had to make decisions to reduce the encounter and social mobility, the excessive grouping of people in contexts of disinhibition in terms of compliance with the rules and also for excessive time. On 20 December Irekia answered questions from the citizenry and today I repeat what I said: the measures have affected society as a whole. In hospitality, the problem is that users relax prevention measures in bars and restaurants, and that's the dangerous thing. The way to help these sectors is to comply with the measures at a time. That's the best way to help, that's what I said. Look, we're acting. Following the decree of the Spanish government of house confinement, we articulate a COVID fund, we propose the ERTE for the whole state taking as reference the German model, and this affects all sectors. It was we who raised it. We have adopted two decrees to supplement these aids: in the first wave we approved programmes for 30.7 million; in November we approved an additional 30.4 million for hospitality. Of the more than 6,000 aid applications granted to the hotel industry so far, 5,400 are already paid. The administration as a whole has provided measures in favour of hospitality, as well as other sectors. Not only the Government, but also the out-of-town parliaments with tax subsidies and exemptions, the municipalities with deferrals of fees, direct aid or flexibility of requirements. The new budget of the Basque Government, to which you voted against, the new budget of the Basque Government, which you amended in its entirety, includes a new COVID fund of 540 million. I invite you to make a comparison of the compensatory proceedings in Euskadi and in the rest of the State, their characterization, their amount so far, as well as those planned also for this year. You alluded to last week's car. Yes, the judge has now stated that he recognizes the accredited training and the important work of the experts in the current situation that we are suffering. In any case, Mrs Gorrotxategi, the Basque Government has acted in accordance with the opinion of these experts, and the judge's ruling has not done so. Moreover, the judicial decisions in the rest of the autonomous courts, which I am not going to list, have been diametrically opposed to the one known here. I begin with the end of this nightmare that is affecting us, which is that we all fulfill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "The question is, as Charles Iturgaz, the Popular Group Angulo Euscal, a member of the Ciudadans to the president, the president's intention of taking the motto of the Eusko, and of correcting his politics." My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, President, ladies and gentlemen. I ask you today about the concern of your Government's improvisation and disconcertingness among citizens. A government that faces a new water channel every day without closing the previous ones in many of its departments. Environment: Zaldibar is, 380 days later, the best exponent of outstanding subjects. They have had time to do everything, even to argue with Mrs Robles on behalf of the EMU, less to assume responsibilities. By the way, Mrs Mendia, congratulate Minister Robles on not correcting her partner's pressure. In employment, Lanbide, who neither serves nor employs, and who now intend to reorganize, make up rather, the same ones that have led to the disaster of undue payments and collapse during the pandemic. Inside, memories of the past. And then Mr. Ortuzar, leader of his party, falls when he takes away the weights against the Ertzaintza, passing from the boys of the gasoline that said one to the boys of the bottle. It is a good thing that Mr. Vicelehendakari, Mr. Erkoreka, very rightly rectified him, recognizing the organized authorship and pointing out Bildu, demanding that he put an end to the attacks. In the face of such a serious issue, you spent hours from water to wine, to outrage the ertzainas and the rest of the citizens. In sanity, what am I gonna tell them we don't know? They are a government shaken daily by a Department of Health where it is more difficult to account for resignations than for pandemic statistics. With a Labi whose members one day surprise us with night vaccinations and the next jumping the rules to go play golf. A health department that has us in line in the vaccination campaign throughout Spain, a campaign that trade unions and professional organizations call "chaotic"; Mr Urkullu, chaotic because "you complain so much, so many vaccines you receive". That's what the responsible people tell us, in public and in private. Hard to better portray improvisation and chaos. And the councilwoman is still in her position. But above all, you are a government faced one day with night entertainment or school sport, and another with hospitality. And that when he loses in court, by ill-founded decisions, he intends to change the rules of play to his convenience. And, given the limits of co-governance, you demand new powers to limit rights. And also to avoid judicial controls and annoying justifications of their decisions. That, and not another thing, is what you claim with your announced Basque anti-pandemic law, the law of the pataleta, Mr Urkullu, when the courts question the legality of your decisions. A law on which the reality of the rule of law is already forcing it to lower expectations. That is why I ask you: when do you intend to stand at the helm of your Government and rectify this situation of permanent improvisation and erratic policies of your Government?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u26	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Iturgaiz, you use a marine metaphor. He's asking me to get in the rudder. Well, I could say that our situation, like that of thousands involved in the fight against the pandemic, resembles that of a sailing ship in the middle of the ocean facing a storm of dimensions never known. And, despite the wind, despite the waves and despite the storms, our ship, Euskadi, keeps its course. We have a road map, a delivered crew and a firm rudder. And we're going to get through the storm's jams and take this boat to a good port. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u29	Lehendakari, the hull of your boat makes water everywhere. You, if you want, don't listen to me, but listen to the health workers, the Basque hoteliers, so many and so many other sectors, and put an end to that situation that I told you before. I have given him five examples of five of his departments, where, for example, it is the health professionals who talk about chaotic vaccination. What have you done with irregular vaccinations? I will tell him: keep in his place those who consented to it. Can you tell us how many dead there are in Euskadi, when before yesterday the number two of Health said he had estimates, but he didn't know it? This is not Papua New Guinea or Lesotho; it is Euskadi, Spain, the European Union. You can't go out and say those irresponsibilitys. Have you called the hoteliers after the court ruling? Those hoteliers who are now going to claim compensation for their compulsory closure? Undoubtedly, you are the best imitation of the Marx brothers' cabin: "This is my law and, if it is not for you, we make another law." No division of powers, no jurisdictional control of your government... That's how far we could go. And at 48 hours to lower expectations, another mess that you've got yourself into...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u30	Thank you. Time's up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Iturgaiz, we're going to take the boat to a good port. And we're going to do it because on this ship the vast majority hoist their shoulders and manage in the same direction. And there are those who, in the midst of this storm, prefer to devote themselves to aggravating problems and demoralizing the crew. That attitude to me is incomprehensible to me. To stand up to that situation, Mr. Dreadin, I'm happy to see you work with a light career page: By default in the health area, the service of general resistance, the hospital, or the ZIU, by specifying and executing an insertion plan, and providing the level of test and bahets, handling the budgets in the sociinomal field, agreeing in the arrangement of repertivating economic health and the recovery of jobs, providing the administration and communal contributions of the New World Life. We have approved, Mr Iturgaiz, budgets with more resources for essential services – health, education or social protection – to ensure the security, modernisation of Lanbide or support to the most needy sectors with a COVID fund of EUR 540 million and a fund of EUR 430 million to help small and medium-sized enterprises. You speak of discontrol and improvisation, but when you have touched on the citizens' demands in that proxies, you have inhibited yourself, you have not even wanted to sit down at the budget negotiating table. The Bizi Berri III plan, Mr Iturgaiz, establishes the strategy for action until June. I reiterate my message to the citizenry: every day and every hour, my concern and occupation, mine, and that of every institutional political leader in Euskadi, is to seek in every decision the greatest possible balance between the priority of ensuring public health and the objective of causing the least possible impact to society. I'm not going to talk about the Administrative Litigation Room car. I believe that it is more than enough to analyse the opposite of the superior courts of justice of other autonomous communities and the pronouncements of the judge himself. If I tell you that, given what we are curiously living in Euskadi in this area, yes, but because I have been raising the possibility of other legislation since the proclamation of the state of alarm, I do since then say that I am exploring possible ways to manage the situation while the pandemic lasts with legal guarantees, reaching the limit of our competences. I invite you, Mr Iturgaiz, to a change of attitude. I invite you to row in the same direction as most of this country. This global and unprecedented health, emotional, social and economic crisis also needs constructive opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "To ask, the members of the legislatures of the Maddalen Irina Pregregated to the president, about the political state of Catalonia." I'll see you soon, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u33	Yeah. Mr. Urkullu, good morning again. Last Sunday in the elections of Catalonia, a vast majority of the local population insisted on deciding their future. More than 51% of the electorate supports independence, more than 60% supports self-determination. It seems to me that these are incontrovertible figures in a democratic context. The desire for freedom, independence, the right to freely decide the future was not a sufflé, because neither the repression, nor the dismissal of two presidents of the Generalitat consecutively, nor the imprisonment of political leaders or exile, nor millionaire fines, nor legal-police assemblies have brought back Catalan society. Therefore, I ask you, do you think that the Spanish State ought to give way to this proclamation?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. In answer, Sire, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Irriart, in your question, remember the results of the election last Sunday, and the referendum arranged on October 1st, 2017. However, if you mean it, it is plain that the state will not give it away. The Spanish State does not give way to this proclamation. You know that. And that was reflected in Congress yesterday. In the present day the Spanish state will not allow such a referendum, although you say that a vast majority of the inhabitants of Catalonia demands it. However, I have no clear notion of whether all the political powers which represent the sovereignty are favorable to one side, now to the project of their election. It is another thing you have mentioned, to decide the future freely and democraticly. This has been possible in the past and may also be in the future. The key is to appeal to it, to be able to direct it. It's a key and responsibility too. And that's why our proposition still exists in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u37	I didn't write reference to October 1st and I didn't mean anything. I was talking about what happened last Sunday. And I didn't talk about the one-sidedness, because I think it may be conversation, or it must be the right way. Chat in your own country. The dialogue with the States, and in this case with the State of Spain, and even the conversation within the frame of Europe, giving light to so many ways as may be derived from it, and opening the road. A conversation, yes, Mr. Urkullu, but no veto, as it happens over and over again. And it cannot be said that before October 1st, Catalunia had not asked for a conversation for many years. And what he denied the conversation was that it had not been a Common-wealth, and that it was not in a strong and always fitting manner, either by conversation. Look, the parties in which these elections have won the major majority signed an agreement in Llotja del Mar on the 25th of October 2019. And it is there that the right of self-determination, the democratic and peaceful nature of all decisions, the freedom of prisoners, the return of exilated freedom, civil and political freedom, and the social and economic policy of nations may be enabled to maintain its progress. The Jeltarian Party at the moment didn't agree with this agreement in Llotja del Mar because he didn't like the content or the moment, but the parties in it, and I'd say, all the parties who had contributed to independence, signed it. That's what they're calling it. That the State of Spain will not give it up? Probably. But then what do we do to protect our citizens? In fact, the government is working this way over and over again. And I have already told you that I am right, that we have not enough tools to answer the needs of our fellow-citizens in the case of COVID, but in other cases as well. I give you the full reason. And now, when you've brought up the law against COVID, and when you mentioned it, some voices on your side of observation have said to you: "Ojo, cuidado! "I don't know. So what we need is to have a different structured relationship with the state, which will not take us in time to beg and beg for anything. And for this purpose, conversation or other means must be made use of, but it must be, in some measure, in order to understand this democratic conversation of the States. Because the guarantee of our future will come from the right of deciding the people, otherwise we will always continue to beg for it, and always beg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Irriarte andrea, bai, zuk oraintxe bertan era aipatu egin duzu urriaren 1eko ereferendum. Dena den, berriz diot: the elections have been held in Catalonia, yes, and I think it is necessary to make a correct reading of the election results; starting with the reading for the formation that has been won, for the most voted list. In any case, I am and will be respectful of your initiatives and the decisions of the Catalan people. Society has been expressed freely and democratically, and it is now up to the Parliament and the constituted institutions to take the decisions they consider most appropriate. I have publicly stated that I hope that at this new stage governability will be guaranteed and therefore the stability of the Catalan institutions will be guaranteed for the good of the Catalan people. In addition, it is appropriate to recall that both the previous Government of the Generalitat – a coalition of Junts and Esquerra – and the Spanish Government – a coalition of the Socialist Party and the United Podemos – have bet to revive the party table. I therefore understand that the broad support received by these four parties in the elections can be interpreted as a endorsement of the path of dialogue and willful negotiation within the framework of the institutions that advocate this table. I always appeal to the principle of international and social reality of my own. I also appeal to the need for recognition of LOT and what it represents as a basis for what could be a bilateral negotiated path. I also call for democratic respect for legal decisions taken within the framework of institutional political dialogue. In this way, Madam I hope that the institutions of Catalonia should advance from the confession of others, from variety and as great harmony as possible, in Catalonia, and even from the State. Here, Euskadin, we also have learned lessons on that subject. We'd have the opportunity to deep down and expand the agreement in the self-service team of this legislature, to advance on consent and bias. And I put out my invitation, looking at Catalonia, but looking at Euskadi from side to side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interregation, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, a member of the Basque People-Ciudadanians-in the idea of accepting a law of eupascal against the picture." Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Garamendi, 15 days ago I asked you a question, which you will recall, on the subject of the transfer of competition or the means for the exercise of competition in prisons, and I was criticizing here, in this rostrum, the opacity and improvisation with which you were managing, in my opinion, and I believe that quite shared by all but you. At that time I could not imagine that a week or two later I would have to ask you again, this time for an initiative, Mrs Garamendi, which we do not know yet practically anything about. That anti-pandemic law or anti-COVID law, which Mr Lehendakari has suddenly announced and which has also been echoed by other members of the Government. The anti-pandemic law, this is the reason for this interpellation. What is this? What content is it going to have? We don't know anything about her. I presented the inquiry on Monday, and throughout this week a member of the party who supports you in the government, Mr Denis Itxaso, who is the government delegate in Euskadi, has asked the same thing as I, and has also asked you to clarify it, especially in order to avoid confusion. What is this law that is not on the legislative agenda? Is that another probe balloon? Is it, I don't know, some kind of trick, or form, or plan, or program, or something like that, right?, to hide the lack of leadership that this government can have in the fight against the pandemic or that good management that it so presumes s but that – as has been said here today using the metaphor or similitude of navigation – for it makes waters, certainly. Looks like a smokescreen. Let's look at the context. In the fight against the pandemic, we have a decree of the state of alarm, generously extended for a long time and which also gives generous powers to the autonomous communities, whose president is also the delegated authority on these issues. When it comes to taking action on these kinds of issues, you know, or you should know, that there are several interests at stake. On the one hand, one very important is public health, and on the other, economic and social activity. All this respecting a very important question, which is the proportionality of the measures, which is the crux of the question, by the way, which was at stake in the famous decision, since it is a precautionary measure, as also the lehendakari has recalled, in order to guarantee, in all this context, the normal functioning of the public authorities. The truth is that, as far as we are concerned, Mrs Garamendi, members of the government, they already have three or four judicial warheads, don't they?; three fat judicial warheads. To each varapalo, you have responded by making a press release, statements, criticizing that if the judges, if they mess with the doctors, that the experts, etc. Look, looking at court decisions, what you see there isn't so much. What you see is a lack of motivation for the decisions you are making. Judges are not saying that the decision itself is good or bad. What you are saying is that it is not sufficiently motivated: on the subject of the closure of the hotelry you present a report of three and a half pages. Three and a half pages, and that is that the hoteliers have presented sixty and so many pages. Man, don't tell me no, please! Don't tell me no! It's just that there's no justification. Look, in any private company, in any firm, it's not because I wouldn't hire them, but they would have stopped them by now. Come on, don't worry, they won't stop you; if you haven't stopped your partner in Health, they won't stop you. But come on, it's just that any private company would stop hiring them on these issues. What is at stake here, and it has also been mentioned in another question before, is, in essence, an exhausted Government. Yours, Mrs Garamendi, is an exhausted government. It is an exhausted Government that is not six months old; it is a Government that is now over eight years old. Essentially, they are almost the same people who have changed places: they have expanded and reduced skills, and are refugees for the most part absolute. The absolute majority can serve them, perhaps, through the groups that support the Government, to stop the opposition when we make proposals, when we put forward initiatives. The majority can indeed serve them to have what the Argentines call an automatic majority in the Bureau of Parliament. So, what do I know about it, so that no one can argue; perhaps, questions, above all, rather short, short answers, sometimes cutting even from the government, when we ask or question them from here. But, man, it cannot be hidden that, in fact, it has all the elements of what is known as an already exhausted Government. It is an exhausted Government, I insist, because it does not respond to needs. It doesn't respond with enough freshness. It does not respond with sufficient solvency to the needs that are being raised. Let us analyse the proposal that is being made, which is difficult to analyse, because we certainly do not know its content. But, in the area in which we are moving, there is a fundamental issue that you are systematically forgetting, which is legal certainty. These vavenes that there are with the decisions that you make, that then nullify the justice, that then such... This affects the daily lives of hoteliers, merchants, people and society in general. Legal certainty is a very important value that needs to be defended. It affects the rights of individuals. It affects social and economic activities. And the answer you have is always to criticize the judges, instead of taking it a little longer and presenting some measures, and then, when you go to the courts, you hear, to submit reports that are sensible and reasonable. The other day I also criticized him for a report from the Government, which, in my opinion, was also too short. But, listen, this is my opinion; what matters is that of the judges. It is necessary to clarify what content this law has to have, what the scope is going to be, what they intend to do with this law. This law, which Mr Iturgaiz used to say, seems like the law of the paw. But this is the law that in the end I have reason, right? That is to say, they have taken a step backwards and what they want to do is to try – let us say – to protect it, through a procedural argument, in this legislative case, that it would be to petrify the breastplate to a rule of legal rank that would not be attackable; indeed, it would not be voidable by an ordinary court. Look, this isn't just admin time. Your party always shows that you are very good managers, etc. Management. Then a management I don't know how much... This is not the time of managers, of administrators; it is the time of leadership, it is the time of real government. They have a very patrimonial vision of Euskadi, they have always practiced it. They have also convinced another party to support them on these issues. But with the pandemic, they're already seeing the seams, and what's worse, the Basques can't afford it. There are many elements that have been recalled here before: the chaos of vaccination, the ill-treatment of the sectors most affected by the pandemic, the legal aspects of which we are talking about... Basically, this is a symptom of the government's exhaustion. It's serious. It is a symptom of exhaustion of the Government. What's missing is leadership. And the answer they have, instead of actually improving in this case the measures, justifying them, dialogue with the sector, also proposing alternative measures to the sector, what they are doing is: "No, this is what there is". It is more or less what Mr Lehendakari tells us: "This is what there is, and whoever disagrees with us is practically a traitor to Euskadi." Look, this isn't so. They just can't do what they want. The absolute majority is a parliamentary thing, but fortunately we live in a rule of law. It's a very common resource for governments, not just for you. When a government has an absolute majority, it is often forgotten about these kinds of issues, and it is thought that by having a majority that allows it to pass comfortably rules, or rules with a law rank in this case in Parliament, it can escape the control of institutions in a rule of law. But this, fortunately, is not so. For this reason, I sincerely ask you to explain to us, to clarify us. I'm going to listen to you very carefully. Because this project that has been announced is not on the government's agenda; we have not been sent any drafts, we do not know what features it would have. There are many interests at stake, and an important legal complexity. It would also affect economic and social issues. And, above all, it would affect people's daily lives. I ask you today, Mrs Garamendi, who is the Counsellor of Public Governance and Self-Government, as well as the Secretary of Government, and also the Secretary responsible for her legal services, as I understand it, what are the purposes of her Government, especially as regards the content and scope of this so-called Basque anti-pandemic law announced by Mr Lehendakari. I mean, by summarizing, can you explain to us what you intend with this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u42	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. To answer, Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u43	Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. Mr. Gordillo, this violent crisis of health in our lives has shown that in its time we have to update the methods and regulations which had been agreed on against the pandemia and its consequences. In many cases, the legislature or the government did not even foresee these consequences, because the pandemics were surprised at us. That's what we got. We can't turn back on this reality, and not only here, Eukadin, but also in the surrounding countries, and I dare say it affects a great part of the planet. As the situation is so variable and steamy, we must constantly review our planning, our scientific laboratory attempt to solve the problems that the pandemmy has made us. During March last year, when President Urkullu established the emergency of Eukadin and the next day, the President of the Spanish Government established the state of alarm, it was an advance of events. But it was still more difficult to foresee the answers given by the local authorities to begin the affair. This pandemia has led the wants of public intervention as far as the frontier. These Basque institutions have stretched out the margins of rights in our hands, and we have been obliged to face a state of great uncertainty. As citizens began to experience this new and unknown reality, public institutions at all levels also had to change our planning and forecasts to adapt and respond to what was happening. We have given it all during these long months to face the great challenge posed by the pandemic. The activation of the Basque Civil Protection Plan and the Labi provided a framework and forum for shared reflection and joint action by the various institutions. The result is the Bizi Berri plans, which have been adapting to the evolution of the Euskadi pandemic, until reaching the third plan presented by the lehendakari a few days ago. All these tensions are highlighting some of the needs for improvement of much of our legal system, both state and Basque, which I am going to briefly expose to you. As if they were the steps of a building designed at the moment, based on Organic Law 3/1986, on Special Measures in Public Health, the General Health Law, also of 86, already placed us in the face of the possibility that there would be an imminent and serious risk to the health of people. In turn, it required the competent health authorities to take such preventive measures as they deemed necessary, such as the suspension of the exercise of activities. The Act provided a framework for unquestionable intervention orders to deal with public health crises, without limiting the measures taken by individuals or groups of individuals. Subsequently, the General Law on Public Health of 2011 maintained the model of health administrations, within its sphere of competence, leaving the management of supra-autonomic alerts to the State. With regard to Euskadi, for many years now we have designed a framework for organization and public action with our Health Management Act 8/1997. Finally, I cannot fail to mention in a special way the whole new legal world that opens up the already known Royal Decree of state of alarm, which is the framework that conditions the action of all the autonomous communities. It is a framework with the force of state law, which obliges all the authorities and institutions of the autonomous state, far beyond the details of the validations in the Spanish Parliament and its political verdicts. Finally, it sets out how to address public management in relation to fundamental rights and public freedoms. Beyond the assessments of the opportunity and the political moment in Madrid that can condition the modulation of this framework, it would be necessary and desirable for the state of alarm to equip us with all possible tools for the autonomous communities to fight in the most efficient way possible the public health crisis that we suffer. The Lehendakari has thus informed the President of the Spanish Government in writing, and has asked him to agree on these legal mechanisms so that each autonomous community can take whatever measures it deems appropriate to deal with the expansion of COVID-19 with all legal guarantees. It is a priority for the Basque Government to be able to have instruments with sufficient guarantees at its disposal. It would be a simple way to update the framework set by the state of alarm. It should also be recalled that the demand for all the legal guarantees necessary to take those measures within our competence has been constant on the part of the Lehendakari of the Basque Government throughout the pandemic and in each and every forum in which the Basque Government has been present. Having said all this, we can come to understand some of the uncertainties and problematic textures in which public health management is found at the current juncture. In the meantime, as a Government, we are obliged to explore and exhaust all the avenues we consider within our reach, without any attempt to circumvent the work of justice in the democratic exercise of its functions. In line with the latest messages that the lehendakari has moved, we consider that in order to fulfil the generic authorization that offered the state of alarm, the competent highest authority is the Basque legislator. It is, first of all, from the perspective of the competence assumed in the Statute of Gernika, but it is also from the point of view of the problem and the ultimate scope of the measures to be taken. It is a good way to involve and commit, to the greatest extent possible, the entire Basque society represented in this House. To this end, we have begun a reflection on a new law that could acquit and even increase the legal guarantees of the origin and effectiveness of the measures that our public health actions require. The evolution of epidemiological indicators entails a material task of the Administration, which cannot be subject to legal controversy of any kind. From our right, we must try to give maximum certainty and predictability to the decisions of the health authority. It is necessary not to generate concerns and at the same time to transmit maximum certainty to the population. And it is that, without the desire to polemize or fall into hyperbole, it is not the first time nor will it be the last time we will hear that in the current state of health crisis legal insecurity has a cost in public health. A Basque law could outline and strengthen legal certainty to intervene or obtain some kind of coverage around some future measures to address the pandemic. This is an issue that we are looking at in detail from the Government's legal services. We are going through this reflection to give Basque society what is needed at the moment: strengthening the decision-making process. A new legal regime for the management of health alerts might not bring us great news about the limbs with which we are already very hard at work, but it could provide us with greater doses of clarity and effectiveness and understanding. In short, it is a question of expressing our competence as far as possible, without any interference in the area of fundamental rights and without questioning the scope of the legal tools available to us so far. As the legislative power is the most powerful instrument with which, from a legal point of view, our institutions of self-government are endowed, we cannot fail to explore all possibilities to meet all the present and future challenges arising from this complex situation. In short, it is our business to try to improve our instruments, or rather to improve them, that they may continue to be useful in the struggle for so many people's lives. Our model of government, which is in perpetual evaluation, and our engagements with euscal society, require all this reflection to-day and here. And we'll report it at the right time. The size of the hinges before us recommends the use of all the tools available to us. We must use all the powers of the Basque institutions to the limit of their powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u45	Come on, you have no idea yourself. I mean, I think you have a cocoa or you've made a cocoa with the explanation of what the state of alarm is, what are the measures... He's been around a thing all along, that yes, that self-government, that I don't know what, a little self-government, a little state of alarm, a little bit that the situation is very complex, a little bit that I don't know what, and we'll do everything we can to make the situation better. It's more or less the summary. Well, hey, it doesn't leave me very quiet, actually. Because when you propose a law in this very complex circumstance – in that I can agree – then, man, you have to have it more prepared, and, above all, have it nuanced, see what we want to do because this concerns a lot of people. As you well know, or, if not, can be told by your legal service – the same one that loses case by case – the constituent, when approving the Constitution, does the following: it does not establish Parliament as the delegated authority to take action in itself in a case of state of alarm, precisely does the Executive. Why? For this way, through ordinary justice, the measures taken can be controlled in a relatively expeditious manner. That's the essence of what the state of alarm is. It is true that we live in a complex situation – whatever you want – that is stretching longer than usual and longer than we could all think. All that is true, and I sympathize with the position you have, which is very complicated, but, man, I don't think you can seriously launch a probe balloon that you're going to pass a Basque anti-pandemic law, so that's going to assume for your own legal certainty. What are we going to regulate there? Fundamental rights, as you say? You well know – the Constitution has been read – that if it is affecting fundamental rights, you have to pass an organic law; if it is affecting rights that are not fundamental, but that may even have an impact, we would be in the same way. But then, what does it say about the anti-pandemic law? For what? I mean, why do they say that? Really, it's just that your answer makes me a lot more stunned and stunned than I already was. It's also common in governments, when they want to look for a way out and there's a problem that's pressing them, throwing what's called "slap forward," isn't it?, that is, we're going to pass an anti-the-problem-that-we have law. Do we have a problem with the weather? We're going to pass an anti-bad-time law and that's it, and that's how the problems are fixed. With that you already remove the media pressure of the moment, you differ at a later moment the possible solution, hear, and already the next one that is to be retrieved. Well, look, this is a very serious thing, counselor, and, like last time, it makes me very worried. It leaves me very concerned because it has not answered me what the content of the law they have announced will be; it leaves me very concerned because it does not tell me where the shots will go, it does not tell me what kind of questions they intend to regulate; it leaves me very concerned because it does not tell me what kind of powers they intend to expand the government; and it leaves me very concerned because it has all the appearance that the only thing they intend to do with this from the joker's law is "let's protect, let's give the standard core of law to measures that have to be taken by the government to prevent the Court from turning it back." And that's the serious thing, because this excuse I've heard many times, this is that the Court is taking them on a measure-by-measure basis and it's that the professor's got me all worked up. Well, no, Mrs. Garamendi, it's not that the professor has a mania, it's that you have to prepare things better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u46	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u47	Mr Gordillo, increasing the security of the procedure means conveying certainties and maximizing the benefit of the measures taken by a greater commitment on the part of the citizenry. We've been suffering this pandemic a long time, we can't afford to fail now. It is time to give the whole population a fresh boost and a breath of energy. The lehendakari, as delegated authority for the management of the pandemic, and his entire cabinet sees us in some respects with tied hands, has already advanced it. Co-governance between the Autonomous Communities, and between them and the State, must be the coordination and collaboration procedure that guides us, provided that the areas of competence and competence are respected. , above all, as long as we have the legal tools necessary to act with guarantees. The new autonomous rule, if finally given, would try to provide us with better and clearer legal coverage, but would not alter the competences between Euskadi and the State; therefore, the state of alarm would remain our unspeakable framework. But within this framework it might be possible to legislate a Basque rule that explores a greater margin of intervention, helps to generate certainty and clarity between citizens, and makes all the political forces represented in this House give a lesson in commitment to our citizens. The Government's legal services are assessing this route. As I have told you, for the time being the decision is to study the formulation and feasibility of this Basque law. This legislation would make it possible to ensure that the Basque Government is able to take all necessary measures in those areas of competence which fall within the competence of Euskadi and to have the maximum possible guarantee. Undoubtedly, any action taken by this Government under the new law could be challenged before the courts. The need for a rule covering the decisions we take to deal with the pandemic is therefore not related to the most recent re-opening of the hotel shop, as is already being misinterpreted. We are focused on the fight against the pandemic and on equipping ourselves with all the tools to end the spread of this terrible virus that has been accompanying us for a long year. The measures set out in the Civil Protection Plan Advisory Council, Labi, and the Bizi Berri III plan must have a regulatory shield that does not make them vulnerable. Because they are difficult decisions, of course, uncomfortable, unpopular in some cases, but made with scientific support and always thinking of saving lives. We are examining whether a Basque law could dispel doubts about the general framework of action that would enable the conditions for the exercise of certain rights which, without being restricted, must be limited for the protection of public health to be fulfilled. The actions of the legislature could, where appropriate, help to reduce the risk posed by different expressions and interpretations, concretely specifying specific measures and detailing the legal powers contained in the legal framework. This is part of the legal analysis we are conducting. Such a detail would limit the margin of executive power, but together with it it could avoid the need for judicial supervision, as well as the possibility of divergent interpretations or conflicting weightings of the relative weight of the interests at stake. All this, no doubt, would be for the benefit of the public's confidence in the laws and institutions. Probably we could make a significant step forward in the scopes of social commitment and cybism. As I have said, it is the way we are really to explore. And he can give us a chance to walk that way together. That's our will, and that's what we're working for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. 9th point on the subject list: "Interpology, by Lore Martine Expe EH Collectorship, made to the head of Economics, patience, and environmental department, on the intention of converting the digital into an inclusive and undispensive form of modification." Mrs. Martinez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. It's been almost a year since COVID-19 pandemic struck the society. And now, as a year ago, the influence of COVID-19 compels us to go home at every moment, and to continue our lives connected from home, to learn or to work. Because of that, the weight and importance of the digital technology still increases and confirms. And as technology is increasing, new tiptop technology is being produced: artificial intelligence, automatic learning (ep learning), the Internet of things, mass data, block chain, quantum computer, cybers... And so that digital technology can be possible, we have IKT companies of our own, tech, professionals. ), and their solutions of technology will be the essential axis of digital transformations. And we are very concerned about their situation, because we do not see any strategy for digital transformation. IKT companies. For the past few years, this sector of IKT stands in such a state of neglect that he's left alone, helpless. As long as the institutions here were not valid, the foreign IKT companies knew how to use the opportunity. The great foreign IKT companies have bought a lot of local IKT companies, and they're still buying it: the Italians, Portuguese, North American, Canada, and the Catalurians, have been much quicker than we are. There's been a lot of euska IKT companies bought by foreign companies. We shall not speak of all of them, unfortunately, because the list is long: Solmicro, i68, IDS engineeria, S21Sec, Nextel, Panda Security, those four ITS Security companies from ITS Security And horrible too with the Ibermátics and Basques. The Ibermátic, the largest company in euscal, from 2013 to ProA Capital, controls the financial funds, because the savings sold shares and the Ark Banks lowered from 47 to 15%, to make it clear that the investment wasn't of any strategic use for him. What happened with the software companies, we'd already lived on Euscalels, and we couldn't forget that this town had a powerful telecommunication structure and that it had been sold among us all. A significant indication of the absence of the strategic view. All I've mentioned here, in the Basque Country, are informal companies created from the Euskal Labea who have passed from the Eusta Labea to a foreign label. In the digital Arlo, the leadership is taking over to the outside hands, and the digital knowledge and property has been transferred to the management of external corporations. And I ask: Is the digital transformation to the first part marked by foreign corporations in this country? We have a terrible panorama to establish the foundations of this digital transformation. As for professional IQTs, we are also treating EAE with the same tendency in the world. In the years to come, science, technology, engineering and mathematical professionals are missing, and if nothing is to be done, that deficiency will increase in an exponential manner. And we can't forget the presence of a woman here, and I wouldn't want her to be mentioned as a mere user and consumer. Women must also be there as the developer, the hero of the digital transformations must be the active part-players. If we do not succeed in this process, the digital genus which we have will still have a greater change. And this must be assured, and yet there is no guarantee. And another part of the digital transformation also concerns us: Next Generation, a fund of money that will come from Europe. There are different projects and I shall mention only a couple of them. Near the digitalization of companies we have seen two projects inside Euskawa Digitalización Pymes, and another, called "Integral de Digitalización de las Pymes," the Basque Erditars. It has come out clearly that the improvisation has left its reflection this time. How's this going to be done? The digital ETE strategy, on the one hand, and on the other, the digitization of the ETE in Bizata? Are the ETEs digitalized as soon as they're finished writing the strategy? And then the strategy will be established only in Araban and Gipuzia? Because by then the Biscaia will have the practice digitalization completed. Or how? We don't understand. Are both projects going to fit? Well, we don't quite understand. And I've read the titles with Spanish, 'cause he's gone missing again. Because you introduced the entire Euskadi Next document to a bachelor, and it was until EH Collect asked for it. As to the second project, I would like to mention the second project: artificial intelligence. It's the Artific Intelligence Center. This is the running center that will receive 2,3 million from the budgets through the scholarship program to turn the center on. And Euskadi the European fund will help with $22 million euros. And what would be the strategy of the Artific Intelligence Center, the goal? Well, who knows? There is no strategy yet, money, bar activity, but no strategy. The strategy of artificial intelligence has no special game, it's supposed to be a part of the 2025 strategy of Eukadian transformation for Digital. And since this also is not written, that is to say, like a ship without direction, into which port it comes; perhaps the port where the algorithm is filled with obliqueness and discrimination. So also the Preliminary Intelligence Center: neither reflection, criteria, nor destination defined. As for the technology Solvation, I don't want to mention the amount of software development in digital modification, and the weight of free software and hardware modifications. And tied up with this, Mrs. Tapia, I'd like to speak about the technical plegus that the Seed Foundation you're running from. It's because a public administration isn't supposed to do what it's supposed to be. The Seed Foundation designed an electronic device for building animals and producing technical plegus, where it prohibited free software and hardware, clearly and distinctly. You could read: "Peño euctronico y compontes: no se utilzarán hardware ni free software, obtenendo de state un producto mad y propitarian a fine de dispoter de uncontrol sobre el producto final." Yeah, and I've read this about the Spanish boy because the pleducts were published by mere youth. And the initial surprise took another dimension when the answers arrived. And I ask: What's the purpose? Patient formatting of animals? To make patents for a public administration? In answer to this, the technology was quoted, and I ask you: Is there any other software that guarantees more technology than free software? I would like to bring here, too, the opening of the informal applications of the EAE public administration, and the 24th of July, 1559/2012 Decree. And I'd like to remember that the patents of public administration are also opposed to the European law. How could this government ban free software and hardware? It's hard for us to understand. Is your digital transformation model a pattern that bans free software and hardware and has no place for support? When a public Basque administration, legally and by decree, has to promote the use of free software, software administration, public knowledge, and open data, it is quite contrary. Well, of course, we've got a lot of mouths to do with this government's response. And, to be honest, I'd be grateful to explain this to you. Because the entire community of free software is very worried about this polemic decision that this government has made, and these practices are afraid to be exported to other departments, and we are here. To come to the end, no leadership, no priorities for a digital transformation that will be essential in the years that are not in line. Without any direction, we are wandering without protecting the knowledge of local IKT companies and professionals, by doubling the project and listening to the technological neutrality which a public administration would have to guarantee, and also without public views. And though this were few, yet without a guarantee of the place which belongs to the Basque Sea, yet all the Basques were cut off by the right we have to work upon it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u50	Thank you, thank you, thank you... Your time is up. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs and congressmen, good morning to all of you. Mrs. Martinez, you've made a mess in your presentation. But the question was, whether we were going to do the digital transformation in an inclusive manner, and I'll answer that and I'll try it. And since you're talking about eucaco, I just want to remind you that the first translator on artificial intelligence technology is used to translate the text back to everyone. And that there are many people based on local technology. So let's say the whole truth. Well, the current situation in which society is undergoing a rapid transformation has shown that, as you said, digital technology can be the proper tools to face complex challenges that have been produced and are constantly improving. And COVID has shown us that this may happen. But digital transformation is not just entering new technology, but properly doing it so that they can become catalifiers of new options and become inclusive for people and groups that have no access to access. So new technology needs to be an instrument to reduce the differences which many people are suffering in our own country, and to support them in order to achieve an inclusive growth, to support social development, economic development, and all of them. In other words, it's a fundamental element. This is how we consider it, and we must use it as a tool to reduce the differences. We've been working on it for a long time, it's not today. Maybe you didn't look at them right or you didn't find them, but we've had a lot of time. We think it's a good time, though, to go forward and use it as a tool to encourage it in society, in economics and industries, and in suffering. Euskakia has his share in the economic development of the world and he wants to be head of human development. The development of this new digital transformation model in Euskadi requires understanding what our role is. It requires that the role of the public administration also be associated with the goals set by the United Nations, which say, inter alia, that we must respond to the demands of citizens and the growing demand for complexity in the global environment, address a number of complex social and economic issues, such as poverty, unemployment, inequality and so on, and adjust our policies and skills to integrate them effectively into the global economy. And a good part of the success of digital transformation rests on people, how not? Both as an actuator subject as a subject or as a receiving object of those digitization updates. But there is an undeniable risk: that we do not go at the right speed and that we do not take into account groups that may lag behind as a result of inequality and the digital divide. Therefore, equal opportunities in this digital transformation integrate the universal availability of connectivity, access to devices and digital capabilities that are required at this time. And we saw it during the COVID. In recent years, of course, we have worked intensively – and I will give you some examples – and we will continue to do so in 2021. I will go on to detail all the initiatives of the Government as a whole, so that you can see that in the end, in order not to have strategy, because we seem to have something. But, well, I'm gonna start. Initiatives aimed at avoiding the exclusion of groups at risk because of the introduction of digitisation. The KZgunea initiative of the Department of Public Governance and Self-Government, with a network of free public centers with which all the municipalities of Euskadi have, to spread, to experience these technologies. Last year, 2020, 4,300,000 euros were included. The BetiOn initiative of the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy, a model of comprehensive care for the elderly, focusing on those who live alone, and people with intellectual, physical or sensory disabilities. In short, more than EUR 9 million dedicated to this sector in 2020. Training of the unemployed to overcome the digital and ecological transition of the Department of Employment. Lanbide, in 2021, has a specific budget of €7.5 million to train unemployed people, to face the challenge of ageing specifically and the opportunities arising from the digital and ecological transition. The Network Education Room, the Education Department. In this case, we place material and digital resources at the disposal of education, and, as it were, directed to study, and directed to the room. Last year, 2020, more than 2 million were used. Digitization in education itself. In 2021, 35 million other students of fifth grade, and secondary high school boys, may have their own portable computer. PCLagun, gure sailekoa, Garapen Ekonomikokoa. It is a service managed by the educational association Recyclanet, where we make available to those groups with fewer resources reused software equipment and first level software; 80,000 euros in the year 2020. eLibrary of the Department of Culture, a service of loan of digital books and audiovisual resources via the Internet; 200,000 euros last year. En cuanto a inlicativatives avitar el reretraso de la digitalización's la pymes, well, the technology, year by year, year after year, the company's person, directors, managers and managers, and managers, and $10,000 were used in the year before. Digital company. A series of sensitation programs and theme programs used to lead to competition in companies, 1.60,000 previous years. Telelana aurrera wasateko, COVIDaren aurrean, Inplantalariak program jarri genuine martxan ad hoc aurreko urtean, saleletik hut era. Initiatives aimed at preventing the delay in digitization of micro- and autonomous SMEs. Also part of the development that is carried out in the department the program Inplantalariak, we have transferred it as a general objective throughout this year. Last year, 390,000 euros were used. Presakuntza. Familiarize through training resources to micro and autonomous enterprises in the most basic TEIC solutions, the ones needed in each of the companies; 200,000 euros last year. Electronic Commerce.eus, of the Department of Tourism and Commerce, dedicated to improving the presence of TEIC technologies in the small business sector. 1,100,000 euros have been spent last year. Initiatives aimed at supporting the digitization of small municipalities, technological barnetegis for politicians, also developed by the Department that I run, which is similar to the technology barnetegi dedicated to business managers, but in this case, to the political part of the municipalities of Euskadi. Local innovation agendas, collaborative projects also developed by the department within the Local Innovation Agenda with all the municipalities, which also, well, want to provide the highest quality and maximum capacities. Initiatives aimed at generating digital cohesion. We have extended fast broadband to outlying and rural sites from the Department of Public Governance, in collaboration with outlying deputies. And we have also extended ultra-fast broadband to areas of industrial economic activity, also in collaboration with the outlaws, in this case from the department I run. Therefore, at this time, we are at an ultra-fast broadband access level of the highest in Europe. We haven't reached 100%, but we're close. Initiatives aimed at activating and accelerating people's participation in a digital environment. The Ikanos initiative, also from the department that I run, provides expert support to define and establish the digital competencies of each of the people that can be evaluated, certified. Last year they launched almost 200,000 euros. Certification of digital skills. Also with a certificate called BAIT, which is a system for the evaluation of digital skills that accredit the capabilities we have; 200,000 euros implemented in 2020. Or the formation of vocations STEAM, to which you have also made reference regarding the participation of women. Hezkuntza Sailetik was a zuzenean matten, hainbat stagetan, éta ez Bakarrik Hezkuntza Sailetik, baizik eta entreprise mundura era eraman da. So I think we're ready to face the challenge we're facing right now, but we're not just ready, we're doing it, and we're gonna continue with the budget this year and this year's project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mrs. Martinez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u53	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs. Tapia, it's a mess you've got. I didn't ask you to list all the initiatives you're doing here. I asked you what strategy you have to discuss. How are you gonna cover the IKT companies? How are you going to prepare professional IQTs? I don't know if SYRIL's not here, is there a Mr. Biltz, or is there? Yes, there is. In education, students are given Chromés, which you call Portiles. But they're Chrome, not laptops, they're not computers, they're devices they have, they're a browser, a store, and they go straight to the United States to work with their servants. Is that the SYM strategy you propose? The one who's coordinated with education? That way we won't get any students out. Those are the Chrome students. The Chrome students. There's nothing to do with the computer thoughts. If you've thought about making it that way, we're having a party. I'll continue. I told you about the next generation. If that's not part of the digital inclusive transformation, you'll tell me. You didn't say anything about artificial intelligence there. A lot of money, but no strategy, and that's a very important strategy. It's very important how we do algorithms to find out what country we're going to reflect. Your algorithm designers will be used? The Basque will highlight his position through these algorithms? All this is important, and we must define it rather than give it money and then define the strategy. We usually do it on the contrary, well, at least we do it this way: Think of what we want, and then do actions. What else? You didn't say anything about the Seed. What's your opinion? What's in the Seed? And you mentioned your relationship with the Basques. I'll tell you: When I was preparing this, I touched three documents, and it was not till three o'clock. I've been watching about 2025 digital transformations in advance of the UFP, the South, the South, the South, and then I've been looking at the Agenda, 2025 digital transformations, and there's the resolution in pure rhyme. The neural translator is very well, and the professionals who made it are excellent, but use it, use it, and put it on. The Basques have a right to work on eucalyptus, and it is owing to the eucalyptus that their development and innovation may be carried on. And you're making difficulties. I'll continue. I'll continue with the next generation. We've got our hands open there, we're still waiting to see when you're going to tell us. We have a lot of projects that some people have to do with you. And, well, we can sit down and carry the neighborhood you talk about so often and you seldom use for the last time. Finally, we need the village view. And then define the strategic projects to come out of this village view, and imagine what it will be like ten years later, the Basque Country or the Esquimic Autonomy Estal. I'm going to finish it. I hope you'll answer the things I asked you for on the second round. Finally, what I was telling you on the previous shift, the improv has won in digital transformation planning. We don't know how, with whom, or where we're going, or why not. The digital transformation strategy needs to protect and encourage zero-mile digitalization, local IKT companies and teleological centers and professionals. Local wisdom and possession. The challenge is too much for the digital transformation to wander without strategy. And unfortunately, no digital transformation strategy is involved in place of the new EA data economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u55	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs. Martinez, I really liked it a lot after you thought about it. The rest of you... You seem to have discovered today that the world is round, because really this digital book and this government has had it for a long time. Look, please, and you'll look for a lot of them, for it's the digital diary that's been made for years, where the whole section of the government participates, and they all export it. So, you keep doing that search you've done, because you'll find one, not one, you'll find a lot, because you're doing it for years. And we're doing it this year, together with all the departments. And the three transitions ahead of us, lead to new challenges for the whole society. And not only for a piece, for when I tell you the muddle, the future of enpreses, and the digital strategy of the government, there's more to it. We have to work on these challenges in some way, and we have to take new digital technology as an opportunity to get to these innovations and carry them forward. And I want to remember when I introduced the budget here, somebody told me I used too many digital concepts. Well, maybe it was because digitalization is in our mind and it was because it's in our strategy. But today seems to be the opposite. When you use them, it's great. If I use them and the government uses them, then I use them badly and 'words'. Come on, let's settle down, shall we? Artificial intelligence, 5G, well, there's a thousand projects. What do our next generation projects have to do here? Do you want to discuss the next generation? Take him to his place. Mr. Otero often uses it. And there are some projects there, but they're not the only projects. We've said it a thousand times. If the reconnaissance funds come, and we hope they'll come, they'll need a solution of our projects, but it's not our only strategy, it's just the opposite. We have a strategy that feeds on it somehow and takes it forward. So let's take care of that, too. There's a few projects we're gonna take. But there are others in every department, I repeat, and look at strategy. Our goal is to work against the digital dumping, because that's what we really believe in, what this town needs. If we need a popular panic, then digital dumping really presupposes a lot of things. And around COVID we have seen that some of the villages have been in trouble, in the eyes of students, because the wide band has not yet arrived. And that's really politics, so I can get that schedule ahead. These levers must become real, and they must be really useful to us. And the neighborhood. Neighborhood, it looks like if EH is in the contract, it's a neighborhood. If it's not, it's not. The neighborhood is a lot of things. As you know, there are a lot of agents in this country besides you. Of course you're important. But not the only one. So you can make a neighborhood work, even though you're not here. And I'll end up talking about something else, I think it's important, and it's that there's an agreement at the social conversation table, which will soon be signed, 74 to do so is said to lead an accurate transition to the industry to 4.0. If there is a compact, and really a problem supposed by digital industry, it will serve to modify and do justly. If the workmen remain in form, or in difficulties, to acquire, as it were, all these. That's what we really have to do in the eyes of digitalization. Yes, it is a strategy, an action, and also an influence on what it may have, and how we deal with it. Women, yes, languages, but even from the working people's point of view-that is, what form we need and what our young people need. That's all in our strategy. And all this is in our actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The tenth point in the subject list: "I'm asking the question, the popular team of Carmelo Barrio Barkio Barroja-Ciudadanos to the head of economics, supportability, and environmental department, about the great losses connected by Davalor Salud SL's company. " Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u57	Yeah. Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, councillors, councillor. Good. I would like you to provide us with information, Madam Counsellor, Mrs Tapia, and considerations on this serious economic situation created by a naval business failure which also affects us and the Basque Government in particular, and which has, therefore, caused a political earthquake in the sister community, the bankruptcy guilty of Davalo Salud SL. We are interested, Madam Counsellor, in your assessment of how the Basques have also shaken the economic aspect of the fiasco. We know little, but we do know that, by the judgement of the Pamplona Commercial Court of 26 March 2020, the competition for Davalo Salud SL was found guilty. That judgment places the bankruptcy of the merchant at least since 31 December 2015, without prejudice to the fact that the judgment refers to debts that have been due and payable from before, according to the judgment. The bankruptcy and its economic consequences have also led to the resignation of the Navarro Government's adviser, Mr Ayerdi. And, in this debacle, the Tekniker foundation, the Vicomtech foundation and the Elkargi society, in whose organs of government and administration the Basque government participates, because they accumulate losses of 3,310.080.34 euros, due to their connection to the society Davalor. In view of this serious situation, we ask the advisor to reply, because you and the Basque Government know the commercial relations of these entities, and for that reason, what are the reasons that have led these companies to accumulate such losses in their relations with the failed Davalo Salud SL commercial project? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u58	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u59	Mr. Barrio, you have confused me with your question because you have done it in two ways. It refers to two foundations and then calls them companies. And I do want to clarify one thing: they are not companies, they are technological centres, that is, dedicated to R & D+i, with a legal form of private non-profit foundation, in which the Basque Government is one of the employers of the 30 private ones. And where these technology centres have signed R & D contracts with that company, they have executed them; the technology has been tested, it works, the apparatus has been built and the contracting company has not paid part of those contracts. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u61	Yeah. Foundations and a society. It's pretty clear. But, let's see, we have to expand the information. You have to have a lot more information. That's 3,300,000 euros, and that's a lot of money, counselor. And you have advisors in those employers where decisions are made on this issue and intervene, and the Basque Government is linked in that regard. That is, that Davalo was financed with money from the government of Uxue Barkos and Ayerdi, money from the shipowners. Even with the unfavourable reports of Sodena's technicians – which would also have to influence certain economic relations of the foundations and society of Tekniker, Viccomtech and Elkargi – he gave that money, and the situation is what it is. That is, first, a contest of guilty creditors and, in addition, political chaos in the Foral Government of Navarre. The Supreme Court also opened a criminal case against Mr. Ayerdi for alleged prevarication and misappropriation of public funds. Ayerdi, it could be checked, it didn't work well. And it could also be linked to these foundations, to these Basque companies in the business relationship with the defendant Davalor. We have also seen his lordship in meetings with his Navarro counterpart, also a party partner. They would talk about something in relation to the subject before us. You know these societies very well, much better than this House. What do the employers, the councillors, the representatives of the government in these foundations tell you? What have they been telling you during these years of corporate fiasco? I mean, Tekniker, Viccomtech and Elkargi? Something didn't work out. I say again, there are 3,300,000 euros of losses from a company that was already being seen as not doing well and whose financial situation the technicians in Sodena also described as unfavorable. Tell us something else, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u62	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u63	You would probably be delighted in the Navarro Parliament and it was your turn to be in the Basque Country. Tekniker and Viccomtech are two technology centers that work as reference providers in many contracts, as you well know: research projects. These projects are agreed between the technology centres and the relevant companies. And on the public side, none of the administrative bodies participates in these contracts. The employer to which we belong approves the management plan for the following year and the results account for the previous year. Therefore, that is when we know the situation and analyse the situation. Both centres have a comprehensive command board, such as the rest of the technology centres, a management plan, a results account and objectives to be met annually. Each year they carry out more than 150 R & D projects with different companies. Most have positive results, but some have negative results, financially speaking. And these losses have always been compensated with positive results. You know that R & D, by its nature, is risky and it may happen that a particular company, due to various situations, does not subscribe to the contract that has been concluded. However, in this case, we know the defaults that have occurred in the technological centers because of our presence in the patronage. And of course I have to tell you that in both foundations these losses, these unpaid contracts have been provided; the accounts have been audited, clean audits. And at the moment I can tell you that in no year has any of the centres produced any negative results. As for Elkargi, in Elkargi we are also part of the council, but Elkargi obviously makes his decisions based on a risk analysis. I have to tell you something else: that it is true that Davalor at a certain point comes, like other companies, to Euskadi Risk Capital so that we can make the decision whether or not to be part of that society. A risk analysis is carried out and it is decided not to participate in that undertaking. I therefore believe that the clear accounts, the situation perfectly clarified as regards the participation of Euskadi in that case. And our knowledge that this company was in competition with creditors is absolutely indirect. Our direct participation as a government is at the unique moment in which the analysis of whether or not to participate in this company is done from Capital Risk. I insist, technological centres: audited accounts, clean audits; it is an R & D contract like some others that also occur in a complicated situation and that have problems with the subscription of contracts, but that I think happens in any company, and in the case of R & D much more. Now, as technology centres, the solution – and I repeat, R & D – that they developed works and, of course, it is a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the Podemos-IU team made to the Chief Economics of Economics, patience, and environmental department, about the effective function of the crematorium at the Bridges." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u65	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, Chief of Tapia. Well, it's not the first time we talk about the crematorium on the Bridges. For the trouble which has arisen around this crematorium, and when it comes to build and function, is that which concerns us. These are also the cares of reason for creating a society, a platform, which is called GuarASOS. We have GurasOS here today, and I want to send them away. On February 9th, at the Environment Committee, you said that the ovens in this crematorium are not homologous. It is one of the reasons why the furnaces and the homoloedes are made, to assure them, that they burn above 850 degrees, because thus they avoid to throw away the duxxines and futians, which are injurious to health, and even to cancer. Klaro, that assertion, which you gave us, surprises us because perhaps it means that the dixina is throwing down the crematorium on the bridges. For this reason the question is this: without homologising the ovens, and without confirming that it's right, how can you justify having started the crematorium? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. To answer it, Mrs. Tapia, yours is.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u67	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. It's true, ma'am, we were talking about this two weeks ago. I think in my early explanation, I said how the oven was the subject. I mentioned how many of the devices are in it, how many areas there are in it, and some of them need certain permits, and others don't. I explained why, and I also remember that you asked me again, and I think I gave you an explanation, but I'll tell you again. I think it is from the point of view of the environment that there is a permission to make, and that is clear from the point of view of energy, that there are other administrative privileges, and that, well, after some problems, this also is solved. Labearena, well, joan gaitezen zer gerratazzen den labearekin eta nola funtzionazen two labearen gaiak, zeren, kasu horretan, sanguine said, lehengoan esan nizun bezala, ez duela inongo baimen berezirik behar, administertiboki. Eta esango difut aipatu nuena, éta berriro hitzez hitz esango dut: "The denominator equipment corresponds to a machine whose placing on the market is carried out by issuing a declaration of conformity from the manufacturer and which must be delivered to the holder of it at the end of the process of manufacture and commissioning it. As long as the manufacturer completes his tests, it is necessary for the complex to be in service in order to be able to conveniently evacuate the heat generated during the combustion tests, which, in order to avoid the emissions he mentions, will be operating with a combustion temperature guaranteed by the combustion of natural gas sufficiently high". So that's why it's running, because it's testing. And, as I was telling you, he's not just testing, but he's on his way to get homologization and CE certificate with the compresses I told you about. That's why he's working because that's the way to do it. He's doing nothing strange, the opposite, he's doing the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u69	Yeah, that's right. You said that 10 days ago, but what's the matter? Well, on December 11th of 2020, it's not two months ago, the presidents of GHK, the Presidents of Jose Ignacio Asensio, and the general Congressor Markel Olathe said that the bridges were homologous. That is, both the deputy general of Gipuzkoa and the deputy of Works and Environment, José Ignacio Asensio, said yes, that the furnaces of the incinerator of Zubieta were approved. So the question is, have the Gipuzcoan leaders been lying to us? Because, of course, GuraSOS did denounce this lack of truth, let's say, and they are being pressured by the Foral Chamber and threatened to be brought to trial. I mean, it's not a minor matter. Furthermore, if the ovens are not approved, is it legal to give the incinerator the integrated environmental authorization? I'm talking about integrated environmental clearance. Do we know if dioxins are being emitted? The Anerreka association asked for information – we could also talk about it in the committee the other day –; the information was sent to it, but the truth is that there are many days when there is no emission data, that is, the information is spaced, biased and this indicates a lack of transparency. Lack of transparency. And speaking of transparency, if we also talk about public participation, it draws attention to the fact that precisely article 3.4 of the General Law of Environmental Protection of the Basque Country was annulled by the Constitutional Court and this annulment was further promoted by the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation, going against the Basque self-government, of our law. Why? Was it just to avoid the involvement of GuraSOS in this incinerator issue? Of course, we are told that we do not create social alarms, but what really generates social alarms are the lack of transparency, these contradictions between Basque institutions, that there are no emission data, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch, time is up. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u71	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Gorrotxategi andrea, sentitzen dut erepikatu beharra, bathe orduan irakurri nuena irakurriko ditut hitzez hitz: "Ovens are not serially manufactured, ovens do not have an EC declaration of conformity. The type-approval of furnaces – better, in this case it is not the word type-approval, but the placing on the market and the declaration of unitary EC conformity, i.e. the European one – shall take place when the body authorised for that purpose completes the tests and tests necessary for those furnaces at the place of their effective installation and operation". And we know that the holder, GHK, hired the body, which must be German, Tüv Süd Atisae, which continues with the certification process. Responsibility is exclusive to the holder and no further action is required in the Administration. Therefore, once this process is completed, which I am aware is short, because it will have not the approval, I insist, but the corresponding EC declaration of conformity. And, as I said, the tests are currently being carried out at the temperature necessary for emissions to be controlled and we are in a test period, and it has nothing to do, nothing to do with integrated environmental authorization. The integrated environmental authorisation refers to a number of aspects that have been completed after construction and has been completed with the facilitation of such an integrated environmental authorisation. The other time we talked in addition to energy issues, issues produced by problems with the transformer, but please don't mix things up because they are really different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, "About the right to learn in the example of the "A." Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, good morning. As you know, one of our lines of work in education is the defense of all those Basque families who want their children to study in the majority language of all Basques: the Castilian. That is why I am going to ask you a very simple but very important question today, and whose answer will give us a very clear idea of what your true attitude is at the head of the Education Council beyond the words that speak of consensus and agreements. Do you consider that any child in Euskadi has the right to study in Model A? It is a question that is easily answered with a yes or a no, but behind which we will be able to see its entire education policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u74	Thank you, Mr. Gil. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u75	President andrea. Gil jauna, the answer to your question is clear and is reflected in our current legislation, establishing, among other things, the functions of this Government, and I quote and quote quote: "The planning of language models in order to give effect to the right of parents and pupils to choose the models they want, as well as the development of administrative mechanisms that guarantee freedom of selection", close quotes. Since its adoption 28 years ago, this Government has worked, works and will work to guarantee this right in accordance with the legal framework in force.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u76	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u77	I agree with your position, indeed; I believe that these children have the right to study in the majority language of all Basques, but if we really consider that to be so, then I urge you to set up model A in all public schools in Euskadi in the next course. You have a great task to do, Mr. Counsellor, because currently in this course you do not have a public offer of model A in 92.5% of the municipalities of Bizkaia that have a public school – of the municipalities that do not have a public school, nor have I counted them –; in 93.1% of the municipalities of Álava or in 97.3% of the municipalities of Gipuzkoa (only Irún and San Sebastián have public centres with model A). For all those children who feel Basque as a torture that hinders their learning, that there is everything; for those families who cannot help their children in their schoolwork; for those teachers who accept this policy with resignation even if they do not share it, I encourage you to work effectively to guarantee that right to study in the language of all Basques to all the children of Basque. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u78	Thank you, Mr. Gil. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u79	Bai, Gil jauna, as I indicated in my previous speech, this is a right that assists families and is a right that families exercise consciously and responsibly. And you know what families choose? Families freely choose the model they consider most appropriate for their children. They exercise their right to choose and in practice choose models D and B, they do so in a growing and majority way. Moreover, when they complete their studies, they positively value these educational models. Today, more than 95% of families choose these two models to integrate into the Basque education system. And, aware of this unappealable reality, I propose a change of attitude, I propose the advisability of adapting your speech to the free and real will of the Basque families, rather than continuing to try to show that this freedom of choice does not exist, questioning a right that has been exercised for 28 years. All pedagogical and professional evidences recommend these educational models. Families choose them freely, institutions endorse them and this Parliament supports them in a majority, I would say, almost complete. You asked me a question and I answered it. And let me ask you another question: don't you think we have enough trouble looking for them where there are none? My suggestion is that we take into account the free choice of more than 95% of Basque families and come to support educational models that are more effective and offer better results and, no doubt, allow us to responsibly adapt our educational offer to the demands of our educational community, our society and its socio-linguistic reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u80	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, by Erasitz de Egilillaz, members of the Ramos EH Collectors of the Union, made to the planetal Plant, Housing, and Transport Division, to encourage young men on the efficiency of their young friend's program." Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u81	Congressmans, Congressman, thank you. During February, we've met the 2020 evaluation of the Young Friend. And that's why, Chief Arriola, we want to know if this program is likely to be effective on the way to the young people's reception.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. To answer, Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Saez de Egilaz. Gaztelagun, as you know, is a support programme for youth emancipation, through the granting of direct support for the payment of rent, which we launched in January 2019. The programme is aligned with the needs and concerns of the younger society, and this was reflected in the participatory processes we launched before its launch. It offers monthly support for three years to young people who, in addition to meeting other requirements, have income between 3,000 and 28,000 euros, depending on the number of people living together. As the report recently published by the Housing Observatory points out, in December 2020 there were 1,620 active aids, but in the first two years of the programme, 1,992 young people have at some point benefited from these aids. To date, and according to data provided by public society Alokabide, this figure has been exceeded by 2,100 young people who have been helped by the Housing Department to pay rent for their housing. From the birth of Gaztelagun until now we have met all the demands that met the requirements for access to these aids. Therefore, Mrs Saez de Egilaz, I believe that the programme is certainly producing positive results.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u84	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Ms. Saez de Egilaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u85	Yes, thank you. The young man's program of this government is useful to the young, but the young man's program, as many young people think, is only a small club that has not supposed any real change, and which is not sufficient to solve our enormous problem in the area of the apartment. The head physician, it seems at present that two of the rights of the housing and the young men of the Antagonic concept are to be found. And our young friend's program is of no use because they are restrictive conditions, because there are fewer requests than offers, because we see no success in this government, because it is only bureaucracy. And especially because we don't know young men, and even if we know them, we don't change the conditions we need to give them, because you've beaten speculation on this program. We young men don't deserve a government that encourages fertility to run a program like this. If the housing is our right, then those who are doing business and exploitation with this right must be stopped. And for this purpose, we must establish guarantees from institutions. And here you lost a good opportunity a few weeks ago, because you didn't care about renting. And you said no to the young people who had a chance, at least that might have been a chance. So when we're going to pay the rent this month, at the end of this month, we know what we'll remember. Look, I don't know if lately someone here has had the opportunity to look for a rental apartment, I do, I'm looking for and capturing a concrete apartment. Besides that my eyes hurt because I spend too many hours looking for them, my eyes bleed because I see that they want to peel us, because they're taunting us and, of course, because there is no alternative, because, of course, this program does not mean any change in this aspect, because it's the lollipop in the piece of cake that some want to spread and the cake that they're leaving us young people. And look, chief physician, it's impossible to develop our life project. It is really impossible to rent a house because it is very difficult and because it is almost impossible for many young people to pay their prices. But besides, it is indulgence to continue to pay such prices, and to give them a turn. And, tied to that, I said before that the Dove pal's program doesn't work, and I want to give another clue here today. Look, counselor, I've already told you I'm looking for and catching a flat and I have a lot of information about it. We see that to receive the help of Gaztelagun one can not rent in the Basque capitals a flat of more than 750 euros. And watch out, because I want to make you a spoiler here, and it's just that the 750 euros floors are that they don't exist, there isn't one! Just as Mari Domingi and Olga do, the rents below 750 euros are parents, so we still live with them. And, to finish, if anyone finds a 1,200- euro rent, then you know, go through the website's link. Let's go, young people, collect the information, because we don't think we're going to have anything to do with the House of Youthfriends.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u87	Mrs Saez de Egilaz, the low rates of emancipation have their origin in deep and complex problems which have mainly to do with instability in the labour market, but also, indeed, with the dearth and shortage of rented housing. Gaztelagun is a young and dynamic initiative, just like its recipients. It is a program that has adjusted its requirements and scope in its first year of life, because if something distinguishes and differentiates our Department it is the ongoing evaluation processes, which allows us to measure and adjust the programs to the realities at every moment. The changes introduced in Gaztelagun in income requirements, age, maximum rental price, have made it possible to substantially increase the number of beneficiaries in 2020, an increase of 127%, and this in a particularly difficult situation, such as the situation we are experiencing as a result of the crisis caused by COVID-19. And the data we have in this scarce month and a half of the year 21 confirm this upward trend. Gaztelagun was born as a pilot experience, but in these two years of life it has been consolidated and has become a bet not only of the Housing Department, but of the entire Executive, becoming part of the government program, because the Gaztelagun program has come to stay. But this is not the only tool we are developing to promote youth access to affordable housing. With the aid of Gaztelagun, we have added a strong boost to the supply accommodation programme over the last few years. To this day we have 577 ADA in use, but we have 390 in work, we have 341 tender project and 314 study; total, 1,622 ADA. And we are also establishing preferential quotas of up to 40% for young people in the award of rental housing. But returning to Gaztelagun, I sincerely believe that it is a necessary programme and I am convinced that when we overcome the current situation of pandemic crisis and can return to a situation of greater normality, the best conditions will be given for this programme to grow even more intensely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u88	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. fourteen points in theme list: "Ask me, Laura Garrido Knörr Euscal, Popular Group-Ciudad's parliamentary members for the head of the Medical Department, the investigation of irregular insertions." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u89	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Well, I do this question under the parliamentary law that assists me as a Member of this House and in the exercise of my opposition work with rigour and respect that I have to do, despite the fact that some people are annoyed and come to use in this House a more proper style that reminds me of El Padrino's film, as happened yesterday. And having said that, counselor, I'm going to ask the question. You announced a thorough investigation into the investigations of Santa Marina and Basurto. An investigation whose results we do not know to date. These irregularities occurred on the 3rd and 19th days, and so we ask: when is this investigation going to take place? And if that investigation is going to be a rigorous and thorough investigation that gets to the bottom of the matter and clears up the corresponding responsibilities.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u90	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u91	Mr. President of the Parliament, chiefs, members of the legislature. Mrs Garrido, as much as in each of your interventions you are committed to denying the evidence, it is known, known, public, that the Department of Health, in view of the first suspicion of a possible breach of the order of preference in the criteria of vaccination of Osakidetza, investigated, questioned and studied what happened. It was the Department itself and Osakidetza who knew some facts that seemed unacceptable to us, had nothing to do with the initial union complaint. It was the Department itself that made public what happened, who took action, who requested and came immediately on two occasions at its own request, through the groups that support the Government, to report on what happened with the two managing directors of Basurto and Santa Marina on the opening of a dossier for a non-registration of vaccines and on the results of investigations carried out in other integrated health organizations. And we continue to pay attention to the development of vaccination in Osakidetza; by the way, a vaccination that advances at the rate of the arrival of vaccines, because all those that arrive are administered, generated the reserve to guarantee the second vaccines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u93	Look, counselor, I don't miss the truth, I do what I do is ask why it is my duty as a parliamentarian and I hope you respect it. The one I don't know if you're missing the truth is you, which looks like you are. Look, you have undertaken in this House to have an information and investigation file on these events that we do not yet know, and we are going to demand that this information file gets to the bottom of the matter. Look, I was telling you it looks like you're the one who's missed the truth. You authorized the vaccination of the Santa Marina Hospital, you authorized the vaccination of the entire staff, the entire staff. If you claim that Mrs Collazos – let's assume that she did – was vaccinated on the 15th, why is she vaccinated if she is not front-line health personnel?, if she does not provide health care to this woman?, if her job simply consists of everything that has to do with the health of the workers? Do you want to answer why then the emergency staff, the emergency doctors in Basurto, who are on the front line, were vaccinated on January 21, a date later than that of this lady? Do you want to answer me if the rest of the professionals who have the same responsibility as this lady from the rest of the OSI – who I've already asked three times, do you want to answer now? – were also vaccinated on the 15th? If the questions are very simple and very clear. If I ask you, and what I want is for you to tell me the truth at once. Not to me, to the whole of this House and to the whole of Basque citizenship, which is what it deserves: a government that is credible and tells the truth. That's what we want, counselor. We are at an absolutely delicate time in relation to the vaccination process. It's just that you have to go for your incapacity. We don't have a plan, there's an absolute disorder, there's no criteria, you jump from one group to another when it's not over. This Government is clearly generating mistrust and uncertainty in Basque society. And at such a delicate time we need certainties, we need confidence. And the best way to regain that confidence that Basque citizenship needs right now is for a government to properly manage a crisis like the one we have on the table. And you, because you're not giving the size, counselor, you're not giving the size, and that's why we think the most convenient thing to regain credibility, confidence in a government at such a delicate time and when so many people are having a bad time, is that there is already a relief in the Department of Health once and for all, counselor. That is what we call for to happen now, for that relief to take place.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u94	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u95	Thank you. Look, Mrs Garrido, neither this government nor this councilwoman has failed nor failed at any time. That's very clear. If you don't want to hear the truth, that's another problem. But neither the Government nor this councilwoman has failed the truth. I see that you take any opportunity to put in another message, not that of the truth. Look, the principles and criteria of vaccination, the order of preference, the description of the target groups of the different vaccines are more than known. It is impossible to ignore them, because with so many agents involved in their design, so many public and private representatives, it is impossible not to find anything new about them on social networks or in the media before they reach where they must be informed and even approved, which is the Interterritorial Council of the Health System. And Euskadi is following those criteria. I remind you that these criteria are not laws, they are not rules, they are not regulations, they are criteria of preference for the administration of very important and, so far, scarce vaccines. And they're based on three principles. Need: Vaccines are an essential resource for health. Equity: the vulnerabilities, inequalities, risks and needs of groups must be taken into account. Reciprocality: requires special protection for those who bear significant risks and additional burdens by COVID-19. The prevention services have identified which individuals, positions and functions are priority for their exposure to COVID-19. That has been the most priority for us and what occupies our attention every day. But the cessation of the two managing directors of the hospitals of Basurto and Santa Marina has not occurred because these criteria have not been followed correctly. Its cessation is the result of skipping the ethical criteria that inspire the vaccination criteria. They were not touched, and they received vaccines that required more vulnerable or exposed people. And that's the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The 15th point in the theme list: "Ask me, Rebeka Ubera Aranz and EH Team Members made for the head physician of the Medical Department, talking about vaccinating the workers of the ambulance." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u97	First of all, good morning to all. And I want to say hello to everyone in the ambulances for their engagement and dedication. You have our support and our gratitude. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u98	Silence, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u99	Pandemia, the employees of the ambulances who were the greatest forgotten before, and we've seen through the pandema that the medical department has forgotten them. It was the beginning of Pandemia with EPI, protocol... They had to begin to organize themselves, from the bottom to the top, because nothing came of it. Now, even with the vaccination, although there is a correct contact with the patients at the front line, though they have to use the EPI to go to alerts though they have been received, the insertion calendar is not available to the health department prioritys. When the workers of all classes of state were introduced into the community, they are not yet here; and they remain uninitiated. When they began to put them into public stock, they made distinctions even among the workingmen. And now we don't know the insertion calendar for those who are in emergency and those who are subcontradicted. We don't know when it's gonna be. On February 7th, 1,500 female workers were included only 79. Think of the state of health workers in programd ambulances or emergency workers. Before the Ambraciots, before the workers of the Oscars, the edge, the Civil Guard, and the police have entered. That's offensive. It's humiliating. Are you sure, Mrs. apple, that answers scientific evidence? The web of ambulances is one of the most important links of our medical system, but this government has been preliterated for years, and we don't know why it is because they have been undercontradicted, because they don't know what they do and what they do their daily work, or because this government doesn't care about the web of ambulances. We've tried for years to appreciate the network and pattern of emigrations and programd patterns, publishing them, putting them on the first line from the beginning, but without success. But today the question to answer is much more simple, Mrs. When do you begin to insert sub-tamps workers? And today, just a date, I'm asking you for a date.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u101	Thank you. If I don't turn my back on you, I'll be like this. Look, the personal staff of hired ambulances is currently in the group of our emergency wards. That's how I told you about the Disturbation Board. The staff of the emergency members of the board, the Osalian ambulances, the first-liners, have their vaccine set up. And we'll continue with the emergency employees of the ambulances hired for the scheduled and programmed services next week because we were prepared that way. And with the proper vaccination, Mrs. Ubera, with the same vaccine as our employees will have. And you know very well that this is not the AstraZenec because we have received them as workers of health, and for them Pfizer or Moderna is a vaccine, and that's what they'll get. Don't confuse with other teams in which you know how to use another kind of vaccine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs. Ubera...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u103	It's not about vaccination, Mrs. apple, it's not about vaccine, it's the priority issue and the criteria. Everyone's already involved in state class. And you said they're not the first lines, but they're the first lines, because they go with the medicaized, and they take the positives, and they have to deal with very delicate and unstable situations in any warning, and they're in a very different condition, and they're in a dangerous condition. All these precautions and considerations you have just mentioned have not been considered with them, and their safety, health, danger... they are at stake; for they are on the first line, they must be grafted on the first line of members. We even heard last week that they were going to start putting it in last week, now you tell us next week, but what I want is a date. I don't want you to listen to me this week, next week, next week, next week, next week, next week. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera, thank you... Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u105	(... I didn't say that there are some of them in the first row. I didn't say that. What I'm saying is that they're together with the people of our patients. And we started inserting it, and we're done with a team and we're gonna move on with the next one. And I said the same on Wednesday, the same thing. And continuing, it's time for the first lines of these groups next week. And why? Because we've gotten them into it like our employees from a start with the same options. But we need to establish priorities, and you know that because they're vaccines, and they belong to the vaccines they're going to receive, which are Pfizer and Modern. And you know Pfifer and Moderns are all they don't want. And you yourself know that because we explained it to you on Wednesday again, we're ending up with the first line for the Oscars and continue with the second and the other teams, and they're also in these groups. And from the beginning we've considered them as health workers alike. It is plain, therefore, that they have been considered as our workmen, and will receive the proper vaccine. And when will they begin to take it? Next week. And it's over next week? Well, according to the vaccinations, we'll start next week and continue until we're done.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The sixteenth theme in the theme list: "Interregation, the Forest, the legislative members of the House and the Levors of the United States, made to the Chief of Equality, Justice, and Society, helping to unite labor and life around the new decree." Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u107	Thank you. Good noon, everyone. The Chief of the Artola generouss, my brother of Kottaja, and my colleague Ander Rodriguez have asked you about this. They've argued with the teams that support you or your government. And this time I come here. Let's see if we can say a la tercera persona va vendida, but if we add to it the different appendages and associations, it must have been La Vencida long ago. Since the family and child-request had been tried, a change of paradigma has changed for at least two times the decree which regulates them has also been a decree to relieve the influence of the COVID. You've had at least three opportunities to rectify the patches of the preparation system, and you haven't even tried to find the solution for once to a stage of weakness identified. Here, as we have said more than once, COVID-19 has accelerated all the crisis above us and all the crisis that ran through our lives, including the crisis of care. And above all, as Oxfam Intermone told us, we were on guard before the pandemy we were in the Colossis. And what's the current situation? Well, they were the malbarists of everyday life, and we had them pay for the measures they had taken, and the consequences of supporting them that have not been taken. When they've been out of bus or dining room, watch over the isolation kids, the fear of being infected by depents. The families have finished paying. And, to be exact, the women have finished paying and giving themselves up. The association Yo No Renunciation of the Malasmadres Club presented its study this week, in which it is seen that almost one in four women, 22%, has renounced all or part of their work during the last year to care for their children. Of this 22% of mothers who have given up all or part of their work, 21% have taken over or days without pay, 11% have applied for a 100% reduction in working hours, without pay as well, and 74% have taken off their leave to care for minors during preventive quarantines. Honek –soldieraralaren planarekin was lotura egingo bagenio... – dauzkan ondorio guztiekin. And, from this data, it follows that it is mothers who are paying for their wages, in their time, the preventive quarantines of boys and girls. Within one year, what we find is that the cost of the pandemic is being borne by them, by mothers, who are giving up their full day, or by taking days and excesses without pay, or even holidays, so as not to leave children alone. And, like in the Spanish State, it's been the same situation in the Basque Country, and this is only when we talk about children. If we were to introduce people with dependence, and so many other situations, the situation would be more serious. These women were forced to face the situation by the minor measures of joy to confront the alarms of the second and third waves. And now, even if you've put backsaw in this decree that aims to protect the most vulnerable collectives, because if you propose to raise 25 percent of the number of those who are present in this situation, why should this be useful if they have no access to this? And, yes, we clearly understand that they have no access. How can it be explained in 2021, in this pandemic world, in order not to answer a problem defined as a rate and weakness? Arartekoak aspaldizioen: "As far as possible, we should move towards an automated system for granting and initiating it on our own initiative, using the data and documentation held by the various administrations. This would solve many of the problems related to management." And why do we say this? Now, when these first exceptions to the problem of association were announced, we made a discussion about these measures to the permanent division, and later on, as we said when the Architectha himself brought a discussion to the Pleneus.... It was then proposed that the aid you are designing should be paid months after the expiry or reduction of the working day, which implies that families must remain without income for the duration of the surplus or reduction of the working day plus the time it takes the Government to resolve after the corresponding processing. This makes it impossible for the most vulnerable families, that families without savings – which in Araba, Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia were and are increasingly according to the latest data from the Poverty and Social Inequalities Survey before the pandemic – to access these aids. What about the families headed by a woman – something that powerfully attracted attention, especially given that the aid sought to protect especially the most vulnerable groups – and that they have not been able, or will not be able to apply for this aid if they are not pocketed at the very moment of the request, as they will not be able to cope with the situation without that help. Beharrak ore dituzte famíliak, éta ore behar due laguntza hori. And the fact that I do not want to change the forms of payment, although this is a more than well-known problem, which has already been pointed out by the Ararteko, as I have been saying, and which comes – as I pointed out earlier – even in the diagnosis of the last family support plan, is tantamount to saying that this Government is not going to meet the reconciliation needs of the most vulnerable people. That as much as you put it into the programs you're putting forward right now, it's not going to be a reality for them. Because conciliation is not a thing of the poor. That to reconcile one must have money, something that certainly does not marry if it is true that intention that is repeated so many times of not wanting to leave anyone behind. And we'd like to ask you for a rating, because the data we gave you about the first help program that you did to unite the alarm condition and the job was hopeless. Once more it was clear who is tying it: in all the sectors, women and full majority. And you've announced it from 15 million, only 200,000 euros were divided, and it's a terrible thing to do. Now, you're predicting three million, but have you made any ratings that didn't work since that first time? Why didn't they ask for those help? What for? Do the same thing, picking up the same outcome? Because you just wanted to make a propaganda equipment? Unfortunately, that's the conclusion we draw, with the same measures, that the same results will be produced. And we ask you again: Do you intend to set up effective measures, and then to vacate your heads? And are you ready to answer what we are saying to you from the medium or from other societies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u109	Thank you, ma'am. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. Over the past few years, we have been witnessing an outbreak of the debate on care from different fronts. In everyday life it materializes that care in our society is sometimes solved with difficulties. We are faced with the great challenge of restructuring the labour, family, social and institutional relationships in which care is solved, and the challenge is now to take steps to build a new scenario where care and conciliation are taken as a central issue. The challenge is to work to ensure that everyone has the right to care and to be cared for and that this right is exercised in accordance with social and gender justice criteria. We're in the middle of business to encourage social reorganization, and other things, so that we can share our attentions in a balanced manner. The measures which we develop in the region of culture follow this indirect end. We work in a wide area, as far as care and cooperation are concerned. As I said, from the Basque Government we are working in a cross-cutting way to promote a social reorganization of care that, among other objectives, allows a balanced distribution of care. The measures we are developing in the area of conciliation also meet this cross-cutting objective, and we are working within a broad framework in relation to care and conciliation. This comprehensive framework integrates everything we have experienced in recent months. All of us here have experienced the concern not to infect or infect our loved ones. We all have people around who have had a bad time in this pandemic. We are aware of the pain that has been experienced and really difficult situations have been experienced; and, of course, it has also been up to us to see how the closure of schools or social centres that was initially going to be for a couple of weeks would be extended week by week, generating an uncertainty that, in some cases, has been lived with real anguish. From night to morning, families have had to convert homes into schools, work centres or leisure spaces. A totally exceptional situation whose evolution was changing day by day. This uncertainty has necessitated decisions to respond to the new needs of families and also to alleviate the growing concern of families. And I am not going to list here now all the measures and actions that we have put in place during the evolution of the pandemic, you already know them well enough. Even, I have to transfer you that I share part of the analysis that you do too. Of course, we must help Basque families, for which we allocate more than €70 million per year in family support policies. Of course, single-parent families require special support. We want to protect and give opportunities to all families, to all kinds of families, and to protect the most vulnerable. For this reason, the last amendment to the decree of the year 2019 already extended the weeks of enjoyment of the birth permits and increased the amounts of the aid. And we have been adapting policies to the needs, Mrs Etxebarrieta. Of course, large families require additional support, so support for these families was also increased. Families that have a dependent member and care for them also have special consideration and are given increased support in this decree. And the same is true of women with dependent children who have suffered macho violence. They return to a new life free of violence and, if they need the help for reconciliation, they are increased in the amount to be received. Of course we must support the most vulnerable families, and that is where we are, Mrs Etxebarrieta. As I said, I share with you the analysis that it is necessary to balance the burdens of domestic and care tasks, and that men have to take their share in these tasks; I believe that we all here share this statement. And of course we define measures to make men more involved in care tasks. That is why we have pioneered aid for the equalization of birth permits. It is essential for men to take in reductions in working hours or surpluses. That is why these aids are given to men for longer; because there were also experiences in which they were given more money, but they were not effective. You ask me for correcting dysfunctions, and I think I am giving you practical and real examples, all of them in an ordinary way, and in that work of continuous improvement of the policies we develop. During the pandemic we act quickly by making aid more flexible, by providing more resources for conciliation items, and by doubling the amounts granted. It is true that we did not have the success that we thought, but that does not mean that our will is not to help families and that we have a merely propagandistic desire. That's not true, Mrs Etxebarrieta. In this exercise of flexibility the conditions were also modified, eliminating the limitation of the minimum eligible period of 59 days. €70 million for families, €41 million for reconciliation, can be insufficient, like almost everything in life and in any budget. But let me stress that an investment of 41 million is a very important investment, it is a relevant investment. And we are constantly analysing the outcome and impact of each of the investments we make, and, in the case of families, also to propose improvements to them. The call you mention, with EUR 4 million, is just one example of this line of work and improvement. The adoption of the budget will enable us to launch new aid. This aid was provided with 400,000 euros last year. Because of its success throughout the pandemic, we felt it appropriate to improve its level and that is what we have done. By the way, you have not tabled any amendments to the conciliation budgets. From the family associations, the Department was asked for the flexibility during this school year of assistance in the recruitment of workers for care, extending them to 14 years. And thanks to these new aids it is possible for parents with dependent sons and daughters to continue to develop their jobs and careers. And, above all, we are the women who benefit from these aids. With this aid, it is intended to overcome or at least alleviate the difficulties in being able to reconcile, and with this aid we also avoid that responsibility lies with our mothers and autites. And with this help we are making progress in the social and economic recognition of domestic work and care carried out within households. We offer greater guarantees for the recruitment, with these new aids, of support staff in households, giving legal coverage to labour relations that in other cases take refuge in the submerged economy. This aid will enable families with children aged 0 to 14 to benefit from aid to finance the social security cost of their contract. With the strengthening and improvement of these lines of aid, we are helping, as I said, to ensure that women do not have to choose between care and professional development. Please also bear in mind that more than 80% of conciliation aid is still being requested by women, who may be limited in their professional opportunities. And we need to change this. Women who see their income conditioned in the present, but also in the future, as a result of the decrease in their contributions. With all that, Mrs. Housebarrie, I want to tell you that I'm constantly measuring and evaluated and correcting politics in this area. The reconciliation of working and family life is a common problem in all European and Western societies, the social partners and also the Basque administration. However, I would like to convey to you, Mrs Etxebarrieta, that this Government is measuring and constantly evaluating and correcting its policies in this area. We are aware that, in exceptional situations, it is difficult to hit the first one, and we do not fall the rings for recognizing that we have not always hit the right one. For this we also have a 4th Family Support Plan with Children 2018-2022, which seeks precisely to give an answer to this need. Over these years we have been correcting dysfunctions, increasing resources. And, especially in the area of conciliation, I think we have shared concerns, your group and mine. And I think we even have some common solutions so that we can move forward on a shared responsibility and real equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u111	In the theoretical part, maybe we can agree. But at the time of taking measures, I have tried to speak in this case about a particular measure, and my second discussion, so that I shall only concentrate on it, you have failed. And I was talking exclusively about advance payment, which problem is that I didn't pay in advance, from a perspective no longer just of women, but from a class perspective. That people who have economic problems, who are on the poverty line, who also reconcile, who also have sons and daughters, who also need these help, without the payment in advance will never be able to access this benefit, because they will never be able to hire before. It's just as simple as that. And that's the problem we're trying to put on the table today. Because gender bias, of course, will have to be faced from different angles. And today we're not getting into it. But, again, from a class perspective. Considering that the COVID has aggravated the economic situation of those who were already experiencing it worse, that they are single-maritime families most of them, women victims of macho violence... – you have identified very well who are this broad collective, so heterogeneous but so broad to our regret –, without the payment in advance they will never be able to hire a person, because they will not have enough money at that time to wait for that help to be granted. That's why we're talking about prepayment. And from the Department of Housing, in the extraordinary aids that they established by the COVID-19, they could and did include this payment in advance. That's what we're talking about. You may continue to increase the contributions, increase the amount of budgets, or adopt them, or change their names, but, as we said, they need this preparation, and people who have the most important need of it can't reach it. A couple of weeks ago, only a couple of weeks ago, the situation of Diera Vasco in Gipucia was known; "El COVID reduce en Gipuzia la suede cuidadors a domicio," cuidadoras, "y Eleva la carga familyar." It's just that we have a diagnosis on our hands that you're telling us that you're lowering the petition on the part of families because they can't access to hire a person. And we think it is great – because we have already talked more than once about the situation of domestic workers – that this job should be taken out of the submerged area. But again, if the advance payment does not exist, in that way, to juggle each other's private life, or the family burden will rise, or the submerged work will rise as well. Because many women domestic workers who had contracts have gone back to the sector... well, sector, I'm not going to call it that, to the submerged area, because families can't cope with what the cost of their hiring entails. Then we don't go into number, whether it's appropriate or not. We don't fit in the pattern, whether it's right or not. We want to patch you up and talk to you about a problem that's a remarkable class problem. Are you ready to pay first? That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u113	Thank you, ma'am. I am prepared to review everything necessary to improve the benefits and services that we can offer from the Government to all families. A fixed amount is given in housing. We set the amounts based on standardized income, and, as you know, the management of that standardized income is very complex. I too, when it comes to management, think about the requirements we are asking for in order to be able to benefit from the aid we provide, because it is true that when we make those evaluations according to the results, well, we sometimes do not reach all the families we want to reach, even if we have the resources. So, at something we're not doing things right. And, of course, Mrs Etxebarrieta, I have always told you that I have no problem in recognizing the successes and also the failures; and if we have to improve, we will do so. And it's something that we have to analyze internally in the Department. We are concerned about the situation of families, as you have also expressed. Already before the pandemic we were looking for the most suitable formulas to be able to respond to the needs of all families, and therefore we have this fourth plan, which already shows in that fourth plan that we have to review all these aids. Because sometimes it's not just about money, but it's about how we manage these aids so that we can reach all the people who need them. During the pandemic, the uncertainty generated at an early stage by the management of the pandemic led us to take urgent measures initially, and to adapt and make our aid more flexible at a later stage. To the extent that we could, because we had to give an urgent response to a very complex situation. We initially did not know what those more certain measures were going to be, and what we were doing was fitting what we had already planned, because, as you also know, processing in this Government and in this institution is complicated, and we wanted to provide solutions quickly. The measures we put in place respond to a specific need and, moreover, that that need was already worked with the associations, it was shared, and we knew what it was that it was not working and what we had to do. For that we have that support plan for families, in which we have the lines of action until the year 2022. And I also believe that the VII Equality Plan will provide us with one of the objectives for the future to move forward and reorganize the issue of care. And in that direction, all the actions that the Government is doing, not only from the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy, but also from other departments. We were pioneers in matching equal and non-transferable parental leave. An education bet has been placed on the 0-3 stage. Work is under way on the strategy of the action plan against the wage gap – today in this plenary we have talked about it. Therefore, the forthcoming adoption of the amendment to the Equality Act I believe takes into account that domestic work, that area of care, and can also be a tool for moving forward. The Future The Equality Act to be adopted in this Parliament I believe will serve us, and it will establish the need to promote this change in the socio-economic model in order to place the care and sustainability of life at the centre. The bill also incorporates and develops the concept of reconciliation of personal, family and work life, in order to emphasize that this must, in any case, be a reconciliation based on co-responsibility. And I am sure that, with the cooperation of the groups in this House, the adoption of this law will help to continue to take steps in the right direction. And, frankly, Mrs Etxebarrieta, I think we can meet, your approaches are not far from ours. In addition, when you presented the de-escalation document, back in June, I looked at it carefully, and in the area of care there are initiatives that we too have taken up in that amendment of decree and in this budget that we have approved for the year 2021, and that were related to the extension to care, care and care for children under the age of 16. We have expanded it until the age of 14, because we understand that a 16-year-old can already have enough autonomy to take care of himself, right?, to take care of himself. Aid for the recruitment of working persons for the care of minor children. That's what we've done with this extension of aid, before it was 0-3, now it's 0-14. Really, Mrs Etxebarrieta, I think we have a path in which we can meet and move forward. The Government is aware of the difficulties in conciliation faced by Basque families, and we have already equipped ourselves with tools, which are not enough and in which we must continue to make progress. But I believe that this Government's efforts are important if we are to make progress in this area.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "The question is, that Elisabet González Rodríguz, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos-IU, made to the head of the Division of Equality, Justice, and Society, to raise a new line of help to protect the children." Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u115	Good afternoon, ma'am, chief of tables, chief physician of the field. I have listened to the arguments you gave me. Kontziliazioarekin jarraituz: Ainhoa, 40 years old, single mother of a five-year-old, in shifts in a factory, 1,400 euros a month; she gets the right thing. Two lockdowns, and pulls from the environment. The aids they advertise from her department aren't for her. Jon, Ana, two daughters, shared custody, work today and tomorrow not, autonomous from the cultural sector, or eat their daughters or no one eats. Four lockdowns. Stitches, misrepresentations, very difficult to reconcile. The aids they announce are not for them. Oihana, Andereño, three children and three quarantines. He has hired a person to be able to reconcile, but does not reach the minimum of days. You're not going to get this help either. Do you really consider that the new aid line is sufficient to improve the reconciliation of working and family life of all the family models present in our society? Do you really think that promotes equality?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u117	Mrs Gonzalez, as you rightly say, Mrs Etxebarrieta's question to me goes along the same lines as you also ask me. I think I've made it clear to you that we're committed to Basque families. I have tried to be clear in explaining what initiatives we have put in place. I am afraid I will not be able to answer you in this question anything different from what I have just said. Just over 11 months ago, when the pandemic began to leave its first effects in the form of closure of schools in Euskadi, we resorted to conciliation aid and also reinforced and made it more flexible. Since the first closure in Labastida, as I think all of you will remember, even before the state of alarm was declared, we have put in place initiatives to alleviate this situation. In the first weeks of confinement, and in the wake of the closure of schools and centres for the elderly, we also took a series of other measures in an agile manner. We are applying a new line and, above all, we are making the existing conciliation aid more flexible and more extensive, because we had to make quick and urgent decisions. And it was urgent to implement these new measures, and that is why we made those decisions, to act swiftly. I want to remind you that these support are more than two decades stronger than Euskakid and thousands of families. This aid has reached many people for many years and has benefited many families in Euskadi, Mrs González. And I would like to remind you that these aids are more than two decades old. And that, moreover, they have been improving and have been making themselves more flexible. They are years of experience, of mistakes, also of successes that have led us to shape the lines of help that we launch. And, as you indicate, this new aid line can be applied for since March. A line of support for the recruitment of caregivers that we believe is important and also responds to the needs shown by family associations. We expanded the lines by extending the age from 0 to 14 years. And they're going to be able to request them from September 1st. We have done so retroactively, associating them with the school year. And, besides, they have a vocation to stay. The social security costs of the contracts are financed, with almost EUR 4 million available for this purpose. Honestly, Mrs Gonzalez, I don't know if we're going to agree on whether or not that's enough. But what I do want to move is that our priority is to help all Basque families with the needs they face in their day-to-day lives. And for us, conciliation is one of them. And we are aware that the pandemic has aggravated that need.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u119	Yeah, okay. Well, it's not clear to me, nor to my group... I guess not Ainhoa, not Jon, not Ana, not Oihana, not one of the ones we're sitting here, because, for us, this is putting on a patch. Care is a right and is sold, from the Government, as if it is a privilege that is accessed if we prove that we do not neglect productive work. Yesterday I read an article of the researcher Flower Lujanbio, claiming that he's getting more and more guarded. And that, I think, is what you're doing, Miss Artola generous. And you don't have to romance. You must rule and execute. And, besides, I think they do it in a patriarchal and economicistic way. Because where are the policies to support family diversity from an integral, feminist vision and to put care at the center? We have always supported policies that strengthen and facilitate reconciliation. But we have to start with accurate diagnoses. And you have a lot of diagnoses that you can take the data from. The diagnosis of the IV Inter-Agency Family Support Plan, which pointed out: one, that we cannot ignore the socio-economic basis from which we are based; two, that we cannot ignore that our employment and occupational rate is different from that of men, not even the burden of care we assume. And, in a row, we are sold this type of aid that does not address any of these factors, and that even run the risk of enhancing gaps that they say they want to narrow. There has been no exploration of ways of teleworking with a feminist perspective, or of the most effective policy of companies with conciliation, or why it is not committed to the public care service. Well, they already told us in September that they weren't interested. You vote against our suggestions. And you leave what you accept in a drawer. You guys have enough diagnosis not to repeat the same mistakes. Now they'll leave people out, like Ainhoa, a single-moral mother, Ana, who doesn't have a full-time contract, Oihana, who won't meet the minimum contract days requirement... For new needs, are we really going to continue to use the same criteria as when there was no pandemic? Care is a right that should be guaranteed, and remains subject to labour market conditions. But nothing. Here, each to his own. And, from the government, they intend to dignify care with the worst of contracts in the labour market, with the worst value, that is denounced by domestic workers. Why do they keep putting that contract as a frame of reference? Well, yeah, 'cause it's cheaper, of course. And so, in addition, we perpetuate the global care chains. You have to focus on the needs of all women. Lack of co-responsibility, lack of social and community services...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u120	Thank you. Your time is up. Thank you. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u121	Thank you, ma'am. Our aim is always to analyze the reality and evaluate the policies in order to be able to meet the needs of Basque citizens and, moreover, to do so objectively and correctly in what we put into operation, I have commented earlier. No patches or privileges, Mrs. Gonzalez. They are aid for all families, for all families who need this type of aid to be able to reconcile. I'm not going into patriarchy or feminism. I believe that, from the policies that the Government and the Department are implementing, we take into account all the realities of all the families in this country: diversity. I used to say, in the previous intervention, we were talking about monomarentales, we were talking about women alone with children, and we were talking about gender-based violence. I also believe that the proposal we are making is a proposal that seeks to offer aid, and also to avoid this submerged work.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Time is up. The 18th point in the subject list: "Interregation, the popular team of the Carmelo Barrojas-Ciudadanians, a member of the Cultura and the chief of the political series of Language, in the neighbourhood of the Museum of Fine Arts in Bilbo." Mr. Barrio...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning again, all of you, ladies and gentlemen, counselor, counselor. Last November 26, the special plan of the Museum of Fine Arts to expand the current building, with the project of Norman Foster and the local studio Uriarte Arkitektura, was finally approved in plenary session of the Bilbao City Council. Well, the debate on Bilbao's cultural infrastructure seems to be served again. And this, also in light of the Basque Cultural Heritage Act passed by Parliament in 2019, that important law, one of the important laws of the past legislature. The expansion of the Museum of Fine Arts of Bilbao, by the way, magnificent gallery of classical art, of contemporary art, which constantly amazes us with its exhibitions, has raised the lid of the thunder box between different sectors, linked rather to the defense of the cultural heritage in Bilbao or to architecture. And, the project of the architect Foster and of Uriarte points – it seems to be – to an intervention beyond a simple reform, in relation to the characteristics that some point out, right? Well, there is also a debate, also between reports of different institutions, or of commissions: on the one hand, the one elaborated by archaeologist Azkarate, historian Azpeitia and architect Câmara, which has been assumed by the Basque Government and the City of Bilbao, in relation to what comes from the project; and on the other hand, that of which we have recently heard, the one elaborated by the Commission of Monuments of the Royal Academy of Fine Arts of San Fernando, which says that the Foster and Uriarte project does not respect the Heritage Law. There is the controversy about something that is very important and that we all want you to have the best of the possible futures, which is the Museum of Fine Arts of Bilbao and its surroundings. And above all, therefore, since we are in Parliament, the respect for the existing legality that we ourselves have adopted. It seems that the Agravitas project, which is the Foster and Uriarte project, defines a proposal that is a structure, the proposal for enlargement; a structure that rises on the constructions that were initially carried out in 1945 and then the reforms or enlargements of 1970 or 2001. According to the Royal Academy of Fine Arts of San Fernando, the project breaks several points of article 34 of the Basque Cultural Heritage Act. That's actually there, isn't it? And I assume that Heritage Directorate, your department, will have something to say. Because, this entity, the Academy of Fine Arts, has said that they understand that the project violates article 34 of the Basque Cultural Heritage Act, which decrees how to intervene in a protected good without harming it: the action must be minimal, indispensable and respect the harmony of the whole, he says. And the report points to the injury, also, to article 49, on the environment of property, and to article 50 of the Basque Cultural Heritage Act, on the prohibition of elements that cause visual or acoustic pollution. And then, the Commission of Fine Arts of the Academy of San Fernando says it would be more appropriate to speak of a "cacophony" than of "harmony" in relation to enlargement. Well, this, of course, runs counter to the report that Azkarate, Azpeitia and the House have presented on the issue. I mean, there's a debate on the street, too, right? The report of the Academy of Fine Arts – which has received the City Council of Bilbao, also the Department of Culture, according to journalistic information, also the Ministry of Culture – indicates that none of these basic principles are taken into account in the work, which, moreover, aims to triple, with 15 meters added, the height of the building. And they're talking about breaking into the Casilda Doña Park, which is there, where the museum is located. And the academics regret that the City Council did not require the winning project of the contest to comply with the regulations of the General Plan of Urban Planning. Instead of adjusting the building to the city, it is the consolidated city that they say is attached to the building. Well, they say that's an unprecedented urban principle. We want to know the opinion on this report and on this controversy that exists in relation to something that is involved by the Basque Government, where it will have to use money in relation to these issues of its enlargement, and where the law has to be enforced, right? We've seen a controversy, well, at the moment it seems to be a controversy that's very much established in cultural, in heritage, in technical, isn't it? We have also seen some citizen platform with some manifesto that is there and that is working in connection with the denunciation of a possible violation of those laws. And what we want is, of course, to ask and know from the advisor – who has to be the main custodian, together with this Parliament, of the Basque Heritage Law 2019 – what are the Department's purposes in view of this situation created in relation to the definitive expansion of the Museum of Fine Arts in Bilbao, which, I say again, is a unique place and a pinacotheque, which we all want, which we know and admire. In any case, also, as parliamentarians, we need to know whether that article 34 of the Basque Cultural Heritage Act 2019, of general criteria for intervention on cultural and immovable property, in its paragraphs 4, 5, 7; or that article 49, on the environment of cultural property, in its paragraph 1; or that article 50, prohibiting the installation of elements that cause visual or acoustic pollution on cultural property, in its paragraph 1, also appealed by the Monuments Commission of the Royal Academy of Fine Arts of San Fernando, are being violated, do they not? That is, that is the fundamental element. It is an issue that may have an aesthetic or opportune assessment or debate, but what concerns us is the legal debate, right?, the law enforcement debate. And in that sense, Mr. Counsellor, that is why we have transferred this inquiry to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u124	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u125	Mrs. President, members of the legislature, members of the government, Mr. Barri, all good days. Thank you for bringing to this House the debate on the expansion of the Bilbao Museum of Fine Arts. It is one of the most important cultural projects to be developed in Euskadi in this legislature and I think it is important that it be the subject of analysis and debate in this House. I am only sorry that the reason why I am being questioned is a consequence of the umpteenth controversy in the Basque Country over cultural infrastructures and the care of heritage. It is clear that the subject has its complexity, just remember the debate we had in the 1990s with the construction project of the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, and it seems that this time it is up to the Museum of Fine Arts. Welcome is the debate, provided it takes place in reasonable and objective terms and is instructive and constructive. The Basque Government has participated from the first day, through our Department, in the process of reflection and decision-making that has been developed around the project of expansion of the Museum of Fine Arts of Bilbao. We have done so, first of all, because enlargement seems to us to be strategically necessary. We are convinced that culture is one of the areas that, among other activities, can help this country to be known and recognized in Europe, and the visual and plastic arts are one of the expressions of cultural activity that have the greatest potential to reinforce that objective. And the museum, due to the importance of its collection, as well as its capacity for development, growth and consolidation, can be an important lever for this. From this conviction, we have participated, together with the museum team, the Foral Diputation of Bizkaia, the Bilbao City Council and the members of the Foundation's Board, in the reflection and approval of the strategic plan from which the expansion project derives. We consider it, I repeat, strategic. We have participated both in the call of the architectural competition, as well as in the election of the independent and professional jury that assumed the difficult role of choosing one of the ideas presented. The competition was characterized by the high level of artistic, conceptual and architectural proposals –57 in total – of which the jury selected six finalists. Finally, he opted for the project called Agravitas and reasoned his decision with the arguments he summarized in his public opinion from which I highlight some ideas. One, carefully respects the historical values and constructions of 1945, 1970 and 2001, to which superimposed a new and imposing gallery. Two, extending the Casilda Doña Park to the Euskadi Square roundabout. Three, reposition the main entrance where it was originally. Four, transforms the Arriaga square into a large atrium around the fountain that can be used independently of the museum's operating hours. Five, it also highlights the use of natural ventilation and light, the use of thermal inertia, the capture of solar energy and the collection of rainwater, and respects the natural and cultural landscape of Casilda Doña Park. Having heard the jury's proposal, the Foundation's Patronage unanimously agreed to award the UTE competition formed by the Foster and Uriarte studies, authors of the Agravitas project, with a budget of 25 million euros. The six finalist projects were exhibited in the museum for two months for public knowledge with free access. Throughout this time, both the representatives of the Government and those of the other Basque institutions, we have been committed to the transparency of the award process, to the choice of a jury that meets all the requirements, with the conceptual solidity of the project and its adequacy to the necessary administrative processes, with which it conforms in all its extremes to the property and environmental regulations and, at the same time, we have sought the greatest possible social support for the project. We were and are aware that new infrastructure projects are the object of more or less objective debate and, therefore, we submitted our opinion and decision to the analysis of independent experts who tested the solvency, regulatory security and objectivity of our decisions. One of the issues to be discussed was the level of protection that the museum buildings had. For this we request, from the Cultural Heritage Service, the Professor of Art History of the University of Salamanca, Maite Paliza Monduate, specialist in architecture of Bizkaia and expert in architectures of the Museum of Fine Arts, a report on the future of the 128 museums of Spain, including that of Bilbao, which in 1962 were declared historical artistic monument by the Government of Franco, in order to assure them the State the protection of their collections. The aim of the study was to make known how many have undergone enlargements and interventions between 1962 and 2020. The professor Paliza concludes that a very high percentage of those buildings lost their protection as a result of the transfer of their collections, which leads us to deduce that the well protected are the collections, rather than the buildings themselves, which, moreover, were not endowed with any special protection regime. Many of those museums have been the subject of major expansions and performances, including Bilbao, in 1963 and 1997, with architectural styles different from the original. The report cites 11 other cases of major changes or enlargements, including the successive enlargements of the Prado, the National Museum of Sculpture of Valladolid, the National Museum of Greek or the Sorolla Museum in Madrid. On the other hand, we decided to request a report from the UNESCO Chair Cultural Landscapes and Heritage of the UPV/EHU, to analyze and evaluate the Special Urban Planning Plan of the winning proposal. The report was made and signed by Agustín Azkarate and Arturo Azpeitia, researchers of the Investigative Group in Built Heritage of the UPV/EHU and director and researcher of the UNESCO Chair, respectively, and by Leandro Câmara Muñoz, architect and technical director of the Foundation of the Cathedral of Santa María. The analysis concludes with a positive assessment of the architectural project, endorses its compliance with the current regulations in cultural heritage and urban planning orders, and highlights the respect for previous constructions and their contribution to the urban transformation experienced in Bilbao. We have been particularly jealous at all times and have acted with the utmost certainty at all stages of the process of the enlargement project, as well as in its information and public exposure processes. In conclusion, I must say that, throughout this time, we have only been aware of two initiatives that are contrary to the project. The first, a decision against the granting of the extension presented to the Directorate of Fine Arts of the Ministry of Culture, which has been communicated to us, has been archived. And, the second, a report contrary to the project of enlargement made public by the Commission of Monuments and Historical Heritage of the Academy of Fine Arts of San Fernando. Neither the Government nor the museum have been able to argue or give our opinion on the project that this committee has evaluated. We have not been asked for documentation, nor have we been given the opportunity to defend the project. We respect the views of the members of the Academy commission, but we do not share them. And we believe that there is no reason to suspend the decisions that, so far, the competent institutions have taken, as they consider that they have been correctly adopted. Therefore, the process will continue, taking the precise steps. The museum referred to Bilbao City Council the basic project of enlargement last January. And you've applied for a work license. It is planned to close the modern building to the public next September, in order to begin the precise tasks of preparing the building. And by the end of November it is planned to award the reform and enlargement project. It is estimated that the work of this expansion project will be completed by July 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u126	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u127	Thank you, President. Yes, thank you, counselor, for your information. And, indeed, as I also said in the presentation of the inquiry, we are, in relation to the possibility of the expansion of the Museum of Fine Arts in Bilbao, facing an important cultural project. We parliamentarians of this Parliament, members of the Committee on Culture, have been there, we have met him... We knew, of course, many years ago the museum, but we have also known, institutionally, its projects, its collections. We've talked to your director. We learned of the steps that were being taken in relation to the expansion and the needs of expansion of the museum. And, well, we talked to them. That is to say, in that sense, there is that outstanding assessment of a first-rate cultural infrastructure, as we Basques are lucky to have in our territory. But we also need to talk about other elements. When items are put on the table that do not have to do with the expansion of the project, yes or no, they have to do with the project and with the possibility or the question of failing to comply with the laws or putting difficulties in the implementation of the articles that I have mentioned in the first part of my speech, because that is where we have some doubts. Not about necessity, not about cultural value, but about whether you are on the right track, because these issues can also lead to paralysis, can lead to project challenges... Above all, every guarantee must be taken from governments and from institutions that manage public money. It gives us the feeling that a definitive report seems to be needed, because, well, we are not going to talk about a war of reports, but about a debate, a public legal controversy on this issue. That is, those who made the report that has supported the Government and the City Council, because, in fact, they are an archaeologist, a historian and an architect, that is, very solvent people. But also a report that comes from an organ so specialized in the defense of monuments and heritage as is the Royal Academy reveals a number of drawbacks. That is, that we understand that in a calm, cold analysis of the situation it is possible that a definitive, objective, independent report is needed, in relation to clearing the doubts – I say again as a parliamentarian – of the possible breach of the Basque Cultural Heritage Act. You have described the actions that will lead to enlargement. Okay, well, those are the ones that have made it clear that they may not conform to the law. Those interventions that talk about the height, about the occupation of space and the park, about the intervention on Arriaga Square. And here is the key to that debate, which is also interesting in relation to the future of the legal viability of that museum. Others have also highlighted some issues that have to do with the jury, that if on the jury there was a member of the Foster Foundation... But, well, those are other issues. The important thing at the moment is that we have to point out that there is a suspicion that Parliament's laws may not be complied with. And also in relation to the other controversy about what you have mentioned, collections or buildings. At the moment, the entire museum and building are protected, it is a cultural good, and the urbanistic or reform that affects it is protected by the Basque Cultural Heritage Act and by that consideration it has. I just want to finish by reminding you that there is a citizen manifesto, civic, in defense of the Bilbao Museum of Fine Arts and that it aims to continue discussing this issue. He puts on the table the so-called Agravitas project, as they consider it unfortunate, and put a series of arguments on the table. They say it violates the basis of the contest, it violates the General Plan of Ordination, they say it violates reports, they talk about it constitutes a dystopic project because it is inappropriate, they talk about the hasty urbanization processing outside of the general plan. That is to say, the San Fernando report is joined by a controversial citizen whom I believe with an objective report it will be good to clear up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u128	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Time is up. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u129	Andrea President, Yellow Quarter. The modern museum is a reality constructed by elements built at different times in history. They are different elements built in different moments of history, and all form a set. In the earlier stages, the protection of the first building has not been difficult, it has not been difficult to add new elements to increase the surface and capacity of the museum, and to make a more interesting conjuncto or set up. The amplifier which is now planned has the same way: he respects the former buildings, some features of the previous buildings, lost, and adds a new element to it by enabling him to facilitate communications, and to give more opportunities for building and services. I don't know if you need a full report. I think there are complete reports. I think the three opinions we have hitherto heard are whales. The first, and it seems important to me, the jury. It has been an independent jury, composed of men of various professions, and I believe their opinion is of great value. The second is the opinion of the Padi with the chained chained. He knows the biscare architecture well, he knows the different architectures of the museum. He is expert, he has knowledge, he knows the laws, and has made a special examination of the course of those museums which were admitted as an inheritance in the Spanish State. And I don't know what would have been thought to stop this initiation or initiative, I find it difficult. Anyway, you wanted to know what you were saying and what our plans were about to be included. I think I've made you very clear what our opinion is. We agree with the jury, we agree with the report that the Cadrian Palice made, and we agree with that report that we asked UNESCO to Kated and that three wise men have done. It's one of the most important museums in the state. It's a Bilbo museum, the Basque Country and Aquitania as a whole, the most important place to know the evolution of history and art. For 112 years he's collected 10,000 jobs, which indicate what the history of art has been in Europe and in the world. And the buildings we now have, and what is to be produced by an amplifiement, give to the building and to the continent an enormous value. And in all this I do not see that there is any reason to believe that the institutions have not acted properly, and that we have not made our decisions according to the order of the law, according to the conduct of the administrative procedure. We have been very careful, and I wish to speak clearly this time, because we were afraid that, as with other buildings, there might be a controversy; we have had a great deal to do, to adapt things to the established legislation, to join with the attributes of the law, and to be faithful and sincere with all the externalities of the law and of the natural fortune which the administration demands. And we applaud the audacity of the City of Bilbo, because he made it possible to adapt his urabanistic planning to the new needs of the museum. I think that explains the situation. Before the COVID this building was important, even more important now, on the one hand to encourage culture, and on the other, to place new resources in the economy at a time of 25 million dollars.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u130	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, Gustavo Angulo García, together with the members of the Podemos-IU, a member of the political department of Cultura and Language, a member of the cultural sector." Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u131	To tell the truth, no one should be convicted. That is why I want to start my speech by explicitly supporting the request for pardon for Pablo Hasel. Culture is an essential asset and it is therefore necessary to implement specific measures for this sector. Not only do I believe this, but this Parliament unanimously approved the introduction of new aid last October. Culture has always been very important, but we have become more aware of it if it fits during the pandemic; how our confinement would have been without music, without theater, without readings. It has been and is our escape line, our lifesaver, and we have to take care of it. But culture makes it workers and workers and its crisis did not begin the day we were locked up at home, its precariousness is constant, the pandemic has only confirmed the social helplessness in which it is and its lack of rights. Mr. Zupiria, what plans do your Department have to implement the special aids that were approved in the non-law proposal we mentioned earlier?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u132	Mrs. President, I don't know if I have to look at you or look at Mr. Angulo, if you'll excuse me. Yellow angle, culture, in addition to what you have said, is for the human being synonymous with learning, entertainment, coexistence and development of the critical spirit. It helps us think, distract and escape. The culture we consume needs people and agents who believe it, produce it, show it, disseminate it, study it and conserve it, and these people and agents, especially those who carry out their activity outside the public sphere, need institutional support, more in this time of health crisis. The main objective for this 2021, the second year of the COVID era, is to work to ensure that cultural activity is also maintained in person and that theatres, museums, libraries or archives do not interrupt their activity, respecting the measures and settings decided in each case. Euskadi is the only autonomous community of the Spanish State and of many of the countries in our environment that has maintained its cultural activity in an uninterrupted way since 1 June. Our first aid measure, therefore, will be to maintain the activity – at least to try – that has allowed creators and producers to continue to create. It has allowed theatres, libraries and museums to open their doors and many citizens to approach a library, a museum, a concert, a dance or circus show, or a play to enjoy culture. The second measure will be to ensure that all calls for aid for the sectors of Basque culture go ahead. Moreover, last Tuesday we approved in the Governing Council the calls for the production of performing arts and cultural creation. Next Tuesday we will approve those of comics and graphic novels, public, cultural and plastic arts. There will be a total of 17 calls for cultural promotion and 12 calls for heritage. This year, in addition, three of them will be new. In 2021, therefore, there will be a total of 23 calls with a total amount of 13.3 million euros in aid, 1.7 million euros more than last year 2020. The call for aid is a fundamental support in the Basque Country for the maintenance of cultural creation and production. At the same time, we have already begun the processing of nominal subsidies in Budget 2021, so that their subsidy can be committed in advance in the first months of the year. The Etxepare Institute, for its part, has also accelerated the call for aid for 2021 to facilitate mobility. As a third measure, the 2021 budget provides for a special anti-COVID fund for culture. We have decided at this beginning of the year to hold a special call for aid for self-employed professionals, businesses and cultural professionals who have suffered declines in their income in 2020, with the aim of supporting the maintenance of their activity, their structures and their know-how. We believe that it will be an important aid line to support private cultural structures in 2021. This call, in which we have taken into account the views of the representatives of the different cultural sectors, is being processed and subject to legal and economic control, and we will report on it as soon as it is ready for publication in the official newsletter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u133	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u134	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counselor, I knew you were going to introduce me to a huge aid package. And I don't doubt your concern for culture. But I imagine we will agree that at this point in the pandemic they are not enough, nor do they arrive on time. Therefore, they are not effective. While you and I are talking about culture, the workers are still waiting for the help that really solves the problem. That's right, everyone doesn't wait. Do you know who's not waiting? High offices, high offices secretariats, because those of you have appointed them quite quickly. Just as they have rapidly expanded the capital of EITB or the Guggenheim Museum. Two months were the ones that had to wait for the cultural workers until you started the first aid. The ones that, by the way, only arrived very little. Then they had to wait seven more months for the Arts circuit to be launched in Vivo, which again reached only a very small percentage of the workers in the sector, and those who also had better social protection. Neither of these initiatives resolved the crisis or the precariousness of the cultural ecosystem. Gentlemen, your aid is not effective. And I've told you this before. Wait and wait, that's all the artists have left. To wait in a crisis where if we have something clear is that culture is an essential good, culture is absolutely safe. How long will they have to wait?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-19.u135	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. You want to talk to me? No. Well, since we've exhausted the list of subjects, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-three.
