ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I just want you to know that the 15th point has been abandoned for another reason. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the staff of the staff of Jon Andon Aincha Euinz, a member of the staff of the U.S.S.A.S.A.S.S.A.S.S.S.A.S.A.sp., "about the foresight of increasing the capacity of 112 apps." Mr. Cuckoo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, the First Vice President, the Chief of Sessions, the Member of Parliament, good day. 2020-20-25 Basque Public Security Plan opens up in integrated security view and includes the initiative of all the organizations involved in the security of Basque Autonomical Security. This is the job the Red-Ming-Ming-E-Mull-Din-E-Mu-E-Mu-Mu-Din-Pullin-Eull-Eu-E-Mu-E-Mu-Mu-Mu-E-Mu-Mu-Din-Pin-Pu-Pullin co-do For indirect security policies are structured, rows, co-ordinates, and defaults. And he plans a new paradigm of the public security of Euskadin: a change that digital transformation facilitates. A profound and necessary change. In the process of transition to this comprehensive security model, in which security is a broader concept than strict citizen security, the area of emergency care plays a prominent role, which has decided to incorporate new technological capabilities to speed up the response to citizens. One of them is app 112, an additional channel for citizens to communicate an incident or an emergency. A new channel of communication, which just a year ago incorporated new features. Based on the balance sheet that makes the use of this tool by citizens, what is the forecast to increase their capabilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u2	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good days to all. Mr. Cuckoo, as you have well stated, the 112 SOS Call, the app, had its course in 2018, so three years ago. The object of this technological instrument is to enable the populations to connect easily, fast, and direct connection with the domestic co-ordination. It's an advanced tool, no doubt. For the other gives the position of the GPS of the citizen who calls, and even without speaking, because it allows us to notify the emergency, because it has an opportunity, a sin voz, which enables this possibility. Moreover, it provides the possibility of knowing the medical data of the citizen, and of identifying people to the contact, or of personalizing the emergency in his case, which is a very important possibility. Today, this app has more than 530,000 downloads. And, according to experience, most of the discharges are done when campaigns are made to reveal or promote the instrument. The use of this tool has been visibly rising for the past year. The possibility of personalizing to which I have previously referred, for example categories such as gender-based violence or sexual assault, has made 2021 managed through the app four times as many incidents as in 2020, particularly those described as gender-based violence and sexual assault. However, we are concerned that the emergency alerts that arrive annually through the app are still at low levels, despite campaigns developed by the Public Service, together with other institutions. In purity, they do not reach 1%, neither of the total calls answered by SOS Deiak, nor of the total incidents managed by this service, which are many more. Therefore, the potentiality of use is still enormous. Therefore, we continue to improve the instrument, so that by 2020, you have referred to it, two new features have been implemented in the app. One, very interesting, the so-called Safe Way, which allows to drastically reduce the time invested in the search for missing persons, older people, hikers and lone cyclists, etc., which, through the voluntary access to the track of the last minutes of the journey, allows to identify them with a speed that is fundamental in the first moments of the loss or disappearance of a person. A second feature is 112 Inverse, in which it is no longer the citizens who call 112, but it is the SOS Deiak itself that contacts them or them to send geo-localized early alerts, in order to prevent risk situations. In 2021, without going any further, 112 Inverse has been activated on 19 occasions, especially for acoustic warnings related to chemical emergency risks. Looking to the future, there are three new features that we are working on. We are participating in the European WFP project, a standard that allows emergency applications to send critical information to the body responding to the 112 call, regardless of where it is located, with which we have app communication across Europe. We are guiding the instrument to Next Generation 112, and finally, we are adapting functionalities for critical and especially vulnerable groups. Tresna aurreratua, beraz, batha...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u4	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u6	Second point on the subject list: "To ask, the members of the legislatures of the Maddalen Irina Irina, the president, the model of authority." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u7	Mrs. President, thank you... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u8	Mrs. President, thank you. Good morning, everyone. Mr. President, good morning. The challenges we have as a people are terrible, and in some cases we know that we are also contradicting the clock. And this countermortion against the clock can lead us to hopeless situations. So it's important that you step forward. We're getting out of a hard pandemic situation, and I still think we have to be very careful in this sense; for somehow we've passed the screen, but I'm telling you I really think we've got to be very careful about the months that come in. It is true, however, that we are entering a new phase, which necessarily asks us to look at for a short and long period, even with the decisions we are to receive today. It is the finest aim of your policy at the end of your general policy that the conditions should be the welfare and happiness of men. As you remember, then I spoke to you about happiness. And you went on: 'This plan I'm planning isn't looking at a day like this in the year to-day, it's a collaborating scheme for co-workers with long and middle-term gazes.' And you finished: "This aim is a spur to us, we speak of the common welfare. Therefore it is worth while to share the strategy, to work in the neighbourhood, and to unite forces in this new age in the service of the euscal society." That's why today's question, Mr. Urkullu. What's the type of collaboration for you to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u10	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. I'm here to answer your question, and first I'd like to explain three concepts, and I'll explain them. Government management is a way of managing public policies within its jurisdiction. It's a decision and a process that are shared between the executives. The collaborative Governorship belongs to the members of the party to decide, and in these cases many institutions and social agents are engaged in doing what has been agreed on. Another question is the dialectic between the agreement and disagreement of government and opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u12	I don't know how far you leave the opposition, Mr. Urcullu, but the opposition, the other, has a delegation of this country, and the Basque People, like the second strength in this country, have a large representative of this people. And the word carries with it the wind if it is not seasoned by action, and if it is spoken of the collaborative plan of cooperation, and if it does not practise, it is void. Look, we haven't met since March 17th, and it's not so much you and I, it's more what I told you about you and me, what I said about you and me and the other teams in opposition. Then on the 17th of March I gave you a proposal about the European funds. I only wanted to beg you to give me an answer, but there was no answer. We've made another suggestion about the three following projects, and, like a little, como quien oye llover. And now, we're on the threshold of 2020 budgets, and what about those budgets, Mr. Urkullu? I, to be honest, keep my mouth open, I'm amazed when I hear the voice of the government say that the interlocution has spread. Is sending previous guidelines by mail while expanding the interlocution? Is that the collaborative plan for cooperation? I dare say that it is just a step back in the certainty of the majority. First, at least, the details surrounding these guidelines are given to you by Mr. Sub-Deep; and now it is not. Look, at Navarro, for instance, we've been talking about this subject for weeks, while we're having meetings, and so the negotiations began the day before yesterday. I'll tell you that we've got a plan and a chance to make the government pre-eminent in Madrid. And you know this is traditional, and that you do it and that your party does it over and over again. If there is will in a political agreement, such as a precedent, a true will, because all subjects are placed on the table, and not in spite of the game. We must give the answers from an unusual period...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Irriere, I think I have made it clear to you what I think is, what kind of government are, and what sort of agreements between government and opposition, and the dialectic of differences. I think, however, that the whole meeting in the whole political situation has been answered by you as well as by some prepared matter. Nevertheless, the confusion of plans in an amblutum revoltum in the ascetic appearance is not a collaborative government, Mrs. Irart. [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] I've answered some things too. Nevertheless, the confusion of plans in an amblutum revoltum in the ascetic appearance is not a collaborative government, Mrs. Irart. It is necessary to perform according to the responsibility which society decides by votes. And on this basis, it is essential to answer your responsibility. And I'll give you some examples of government. The works of LABI, resurrect, or Euskakia, 2030 Agenda, Science, Technology, and Renewing Council are examples of co-operance, and others of the collaborative government. Both are examples of dialogue, shared strategy, of resolutions taken together, and of the neighbourhood. When applied to our own, we must strengthen the space of determination by respecting the sphere of our own jurisdiction, maintaining respect, and not confounding the cares of different powers. We are pushing the role model of the neighborhood, and this model can be applied, for example, in the 17 laws project here being arranged, or in the other 12 laws project to arrive, as well as in the motives here presented. Yesterday, for instance, we agreed with your team in the field of education or the field of hearing. The colonial government updates and develops the idea of the neighbourhood. He asks for an interview, an interview with an arrangement will. And this also, I think, is the necessary conclusion, which, though it be agreed, belongs to the control and evaluation of the opposition and government, or of the government of opposition. Anyway, politics doesn't work for me at least, it's not everything or nothing by formula, I think everyone knows that. In any case, what we seek to distinguish between our actions, even with an absolute majority, we maintain a willingness to dialogue, agreement and collaboration with opposition groups. In this Parliament, deliberation and the adoption of laws make it possible to contrast the real will of agreement between parliamentary groups and the Government, especially when we talk about groups that do not support the Government. The reorientation of the 2020 Budget or Budget Act 2021, adopted in the midst of the pandemic, or the pandemic management law, were opportunities that they could have taken advantage of. The draft Budgets 2022 offers a new opportunity and I invite you to participate, the door is open. We have an absolute majority, but we are aware of the opportunity to dialogue and will to agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: The question is, by the way, that you and I are working together with the President on the situation of the housing Eukadin." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u16	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. In 2018, the chance was introduced in Congress, well, a bill of law, which was encouraged by the Stop Streets; and there, by this law, was intended to regulate, regulate, regulate the rents of the housing, and regulate the alternative (...) to prevent the homecalations. In that case, your party, EAJ, had been neglected to appreciate that in this vote they were capable of education. We here, too, in the former legislation, and even in the latter, have proposed to regulate, to moderate, and regulate the rent of the house. And in these cases we have been told that there is lack of legal protection from the government. We have today a project of laws by which the Spanish Government and that of Unidas Podemos will regulate the rents, in order to reduce them. And in this case, we are told, or EAJ says, well, here is a law of his own. Well, a law of its own, so far as it was considered, was a barbaridian... And the point is, we see a lot of wandering from the government, from the EAJ, especially about this matter. And in the end, what is to be decided here is, whether an object or instrument, in order to satisfy a fundamental right, or simply a property of speculation considered. And for that reason, my question, and that this new law will come, I am asking you, what plan your government has when this new law is established, to solve the affairs of the Basque House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Gorrotxategi, to justify the question of what housing plans the Basque Government has for Euskadi, you refer to the report of the Bank of Spain on the housing market and the high rental price in Bilbao, in Donostia. It is true, but that same report points out – and I quote it textually – that "the measures that focus on a stable increase in the supply of rented housing for making it available to the most vulnerable groups are the most effective". That's the priority of the housing policy of Eukák's last few years. That's the way it is recorded in our government program with three specific commitments and 30 specific initiatives. We're a real driver because we promote public housing policies in the state. We were pioneers in 2015, because we acknowledged it as a subjective right to the housing. So far 6200 people have acquired that right. It's the law that the public institutions have the priority of buying the housing or going back... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... So far 6200 people have acquired that right. This law receives the privilege of making public institutions buy, or of remunerating the housing. Over the last three years, the 30,000 families have collected economic supplies to pay rent for the housing. And one of the keys of our housing policy has taken place in time. The results of this politics have been positive and acknowledged. And, as you know, Madam, it is exemplary to prepare a law for the Spanish Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u20	Yeah. Thank you. You say that Euskadin is doing things. It's true, but there's still a lot to do. The data. Indeed, the average price of rent in Gasteiz, 1,148 euros; in Bilbao, 1,097; in Donostia, 1,272. To all this, at the same time, accompanied by also scandalous eviction rates: in 2018, 1,191; in 2019, 1,043, et cetera. I mean, it's true that things are being done, but there's still a lot to do. And speaking... With the Housing Act that will be passed, if we take into account this law that will be passed, according to data from the Basque Government, de facto could... this law would allow the rental price of at least 1,200 housing units in Euskadi that are owned by the large forks to be lowered. But, of course, for that to happen, it is the autonomous communities that have to declare the municipalities as tense zones. The question is: Is the Basque Government prepared to carry out... to use this instrument and declare areas tense to certain municipalities, such as Bilbao, Donostia, the main tourist municipalities, in order to be able to implement this law? This law also provides or will provide for the freezing of some of the... the prices of some... small homeowners rented with tax incentives. The question is: Is the Basque Government also willing to coordinate work with the outside parliaments so that this can become effective? I mean, it's true that things are being done, but there's a lot to do. Now we have a law that gives us an opportunity, that gives us new instruments to focus more on the price of housing, that in Euskadi is a big problem, and I would like to know if the Basque Government is willing to take advantage of all the instruments it has in this (moment?) To...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Gorrotxategi, things are actually being done. And I appreciate you recognizing that things are being done. And I think it is important to continue to see what is being done here in Euskadi: In Euskadi we have a social housing policy, all public housing is dedicated to rent, almost one out of every three public housing units that were built in 2020 in the Spanish state have been built in Euskadi, we have a social rental park of 26,000 homes, more than 33,000 families have received subsidies to pay for rent, the Bizigune social rental programme has been awarded as one of the most innovative European initiatives, more than 2,200 young people have benefited from a grant of up to EUR 250 per month through the Gaztelagun programme. You also quote in some way the evictions that might be. Or, in any case, in Spain they have grown by 13% in the first quarter of this year and in Euskadi they have fallen by 8%. Empty housing in Euskadi accounts for 2% of the total park; in Spain, 13%. More than 35,000 housing units have received assistance in three years for rehabilitation. And I do not mention the tax exemptions that could have been applied by the parliaments in each of the territories. In September we approved a new order of rehabilitation aid, allocating an additional €33 million per year over the next three years. And, in short, Euskadi dedicates 74 euros per inhabitant to housing policy, when the average in the state is 41. Therefore, Mrs Gorrotxategi, we continue to promote this social housing policy. And we have just developed the Housing Master Plan 2021-2023, reinforcing our commitment. I recognize that there is room for improvement. And we are ready to explore with you the concrete opportunity offered by next year's draft budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "The question is, that the parliamentary members of the Angulo Euskal Group of the popular-Ciudadans are made to the president about the execution of the Euskal railroad Y and the growing uncertainty of the arrival of the AVE euscal capitals." My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. President. Good morning. The culmination of the arrival of high speed to Euskadi is already the endless story, a story that adds chapter after chapter in the hemerotecs and progresses very slowly on the ground. In 2016, with the Rajoy government, everything was clear: underground entrance, urban regeneration and calendar to 2023. This remained the case when the Budgets for 2018 were approved. And so it stopped with Sánchez's arrival in the Moncloa. It ceased to be because every year Mr Sánchez's government has been one year late in the arrival of the AVE in Euskadi. We know that Basque Y is not a priority for its partners Sanchez. It is clear in the mouth of government delegates. Mr. Loza, who was then a government delegate at the time, considered Mariano Rajoy's investment effort unsustainable. And Mr. Itxaso says that underground is impossible. And most surprising, you certify with your support and with your vote every delay, every postponement and every non-compliance. Now we are talking about 2026, with all kinds of probabilities, without timetables or deadlines for what was so clear three years ago. You demand that Sanchez comply with the TAV, but we all know that having the AVE in service in the... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... without timetables or deadlines for what was so clear three years ago. You demand that Sanchez comply with the TAV, but we all know that having the AVE in service in 2023 is already impossible. And what are you talking about then? His pacts with Sanchez are bad business for the Basques, but they want it to be good business for the PNV. They want to manage you and blame everyone else for the delays. They want to say that it is the Basque Government that brings the TAV to Euskadi paid, of course, for all the Spaniards. Actually, finishing the VAD has always given them the same. There are the delays after the pact, in his day, this issue with Otegi, with Madrazo, now with Sánchez. What is important is to build the story of PNV and a Basque government that completes the endless work, and that they forget their enormous responsibility for delays and non-compliances. Today we are told to comply with the budgeted in 2018, three governments with identical partners and support, and that, however, they postpone each year without any redundancy to the interest of the Basques. That is why I ask you, lehendakari, how do you assess the new delay in the implementation of the VAD and the arrival of the VEA in the Basque capitals?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u25	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Senor Iturgai, lovalro nemiremente. I'm giving it to you negatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u28	Look, lehendakari, we agree, completely agree. But, of course, to be so negative, something else I could do, because, look, lehendakari, the TAV was, as I told you, in 2018 with the PP government, and you, right with Sanchez, your partner, have taken him to a dead end all this time. And that's the reality, lehendakari, when I ask you about the new delay is because there is a new delay, from 2023 to 2026 with provisional stations and no execution schedule, that is, the most absolute indefinition. And you protesting in the media, but accepting everything in the office. Citizens are skeptical. The TAV is almost already an urban legend in many cases, something was already here in the debates of the 80's, in that Europe 93 Plan, which will be remembered, lehendakari, in the governing pacts of each legislature. And some will retire without seeing him on duty, because we all know that, whatever Sanchez does with the TAV or with employment or with taxes or with the rise of light, they will continue to support him. We see you accepting indefinite temporaryities over the seasons in the capitals and the even more indefinite underground. We, Lehendakari, have credited with facts, that in Euskadi, Spain and Europe our commitment to Basque Y. You should remember, I know you know. And, therefore, I think you should make sure that your pacts and alliances stop being so bad business for the Basques, and so do not get to this rostrum to say that it is completely negative everything that is being done on this issue to the question that I am asking for my group, from the People's Party-Citizens. Thank you very much, lehendakari.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u29	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Iturgaiz, I don't negatively value everything. The delay in the implementation of the High Speed Train and the arrival of the AVE in the Basque capitals are negatively valued. However, a delay in an agreement is always a problem. And in this case, it also means losing an opportunity. This railway connection to European institutions is a priority. An option to restart communications from the Atlantic corridors in Europe. Anyway, we have a deal signed by the Spanish Government. It is agreed that all the works should be completed, and that they must come to the capitals under the soil of Bilbon and Gaste. We've all agreed to this agreement and signed it. I'll keep asking you to carry out all those commitments. And we have offered to examine all the possibilities of managing with the purpose of finishing all the works as quickly as possible. Mr Iturgaiz, we have an effective experience with the Basque Government. Thus the Basque Government carried out the works of the Gipuzkoa section. He carried out the works of the Gipuzkoa section through a management commission. And now we have again offered this possibility. The Basque Government's commitment is therefore absolute. And, moreover, effective in its execution. I think it is best for Euskadi and the State, because it would ensure that investments are maintained and that they are fully implemented. In any case, the Spanish Government is responsible for completing a basic communication infrastructure for connection with Europe. Since the launch of the High Speed Train in 1992 in the Spanish State, many things have changed and there have been many governments. One of them is the enlargement of Europe to the east. And this must redouble our interest in promoting the European Atlantic Arc as an area of investment and support by the Community institutions. The Atlantic Corridor is an opportunity in this regard. In 1994 at the Essen summit, the European Union established the first priority map of trans-European rail corridors. Among them, the Atlantic Corridor, in which the Basque Y is inserted. And at that Essen summit in 1994, it was established that the network should be operational in 2010. I can also talk to you about the experiences with the Spanish Government presided over by the People's Party. In any case, Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero's commitment since the year... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... I can also talk about the experiences with the Spanish Government presided over by the People's Party. In any case, Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's commitment since 2006 agreed with the (?) in the Congress of Deputies and the Basque Nationalist Party. However, the attitude of the Basque Government will continue to be demanding with the implementation of the agreements reached. And in turn, let us underline the European dimension of this project. I hope to count on the collaboration of your group, but I ask you for memory and frankness. You say that Pedro Sánchez has failed to meet Rajoy's deadlines. Okay, but in the same way that Rajoy failed to meet his commitments and also those of Rodriguez Zapatero. Since this project began three decades ago, delays have accumulated in a work that should and should connect us with Europe. You have had the responsibility of government during several legislatures. As I say, I also expect the cooperation of your group, as well as the social, economic and institutional actors in the defence of the Atlantic Corridor, as is happening with the Mediterranean Corridor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Madia Martíne, a member of the Mistho group of the Greys, made to the president for the fines imposed on the first alarm condition." Ms Martínnez is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u32	Thank you, Madam President, Lehendakari, advisers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. On 14 July, the Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional the articles of the first state of alarm that violated the fundamental right of citizens to move freely throughout the national territory. This resolution directly affected the sanctions imposed under this state of alarm, in particular the 22,957 fines imposed in the Basque Country on those who missed home confinement. His Government's reaction, rather, the reactions, were contradictory. On 1 September, the Basque Government decided to file the 14,700 fines that had not been paid. However, it was firm not to annul the fines already paid or the fines appealed. That was the first reaction. Then, on October 2, they changed their minds and announced that they would return the amount of all the fines paid. Second reaction, second version. Mr Urkullu, what is the reason for this change of opinion? Citizens see that the same government, on the basis of the same sentence, offers two different readings within one month. His Security Adviser, Mr. Josu Erkoreka, has justified this change of view in a contrasted legal analysis. What do you mean, was there not a rigorous, objective and contrasted reading in your first announcement? From Vox we understand that a decision that affects thousands of citizens who were unjustly fined for an unconstitutional and totalitarian measure of the communist social government, is something very serious that cannot be taken lightly. We therefore ask you to explain to us why your Government has changed its approach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u33	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u34	Eskerrik asko legebiltzarburu andrea. Mrs Martínez, for the reason has indeed been that our decisions have been taken as we have been able to confirm both their legal certainty and their viability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u36	Mr Urkullu no one is surprised by the improvisation of his Government. Regrettably, the Basques are accustomed to the bandits of their government, to the constant error test policy that guides the day-to-day performance of their actions. Moreover, the image of a Government is a Government of watertight compartments, and that is the only possible explanation for this episode that leaves in question the rigour of its Government in complying with judicial decisions. A lack of rigour that has governed decision-making throughout the pandemic. Since Vox we have already told him, we warned him a year ago that his Government could not face the health, economic and social crisis that the Basque Country suffered without a plan, without ideas and without rigour with the slightest anticipation. And we're not wrong. I quote: "The Basque Government will step back and return the amount of the covid fines paid". I don't say it, Vox doesn't say it, it's said by all the media that are close to them, those that silence us, but that so many days of glory have given and continue to give to their executive. So far, the only response of this Government has been to charge judges every time they disallow them. Or in the words of Mr Erkoreka, there comes a court that throws everything on the ground. It is enough to shield yourself in others, to throw balloons out, Mr Urkullu, you have also shut down the Basque Country and forbade us to move freely. The pandemic has been the excuse of the Government of the Nation and its own Government to carry out the violation of fundamental rights and freedoms of Spaniards and Basques throughout our history. The media have demonized Vox by saying that we were facing an undercover state of emergency and by appealing to the Constitutional Court. But you see, we were right, here you can see: Vox recurs and Vox wins. The plenary session of the Constitutional Court has resolved the appeal of unconstitutionality made by the parliamentary group Vox in Congress. Thanks to Vox 22,957 Basques are not going to be punished by a state of alarm that the government pulled out of the joke to hide its inability to manage the crisis. Mr Urkullu, I hope that this time you have seen the ears of the wolf and when the pronouncement of the second state of alarm arrives, you will be able to make a legal and rigorous analysis of the first. Has the Basque Government already foreseen what it will do with the second state of alarm when it is also seen to be unconstitutional? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u37	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martinez, what is the Basque Government going to do? Do you know what the sentence is going to be? In any case, I'll stick to what... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... Mr. President. Mrs Martinez, what is the Basque Government going to do? Do you know what the sentence is going to be? In any case, I will stick to whatever the question is regarding the payment of fines imposed for violating mobility restrictions during the first state of alarm. The Government has clearly explained the reasons for this decision, and I quote: "If the judgment is interpreted as limiting its derogatory effects only to unconsolidated situations, it would give rise to a comparative aggravation between those who voluntarily paid the amount of the fine against those who decided not to do so". Our action has been aimed at avoiding this comparative aggravation and we have done so at the time when we have had all the legal and feasibility guarantees to take this decision. Mrs Martínez, I recommend you listen to the statements of Iñaki Subijana, president of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, who said, and I read literally: "It seems to me a fair decision. I think the explanation has been very consistent. We cannot make the person who has fulfilled the penalty imposed on him worse. In addition, this decision is very much in line with article 40 of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court. We are therefore talking about a fair and law-adjusted decision, which has also been explained consistently. We have nothing more to say in that sense." But I will clarify that on 31 July the Constitutional Court's decision of 14 July was published in the State Official Gazette, that the Basque Government has not been a party to the proceedings and should therefore wait for its publication in the bulletin for its effects to be general. And from that point on, the legal services of the Department of Safety and Security agreed that any action should be taken with the greatest possible legal certainty. On the basis of this premise, three consecutive decisions have been taken: Order of 17 August, which put an end to administrative proceedings, which were still under way; decision of the Governing Council to put an end to pending proceedings in court; and, subsequently, and as a result of due legal contrast, the Department of Safety and Security decided to proceed with the reimbursement of amounts collected by the Administration. This decision was taken when we had sufficient legal certainty, Mrs Martínez. The reintegration, on the other hand, will generate an important mobilization of public resources, as happened at the time of collection. In any case, the purpose of this Government, as far as the imposition of fines during the pandemic is concerned, has never been collective. The aim of this Government has always been to preserve the health of Basque citizens and to this end it has had the cooperation of the Ertzaintza and the local police at all times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interpation, Carmelo Barroja, a member of the Basque Groups of Popula-Ciudadnanos made to the president about raising public expenditures to the tops of the Basque Office." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u40	Thank you very much, President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and everyone. I am not going to extend much in the interpellation, because I believe it is a specific question. And it's clear that when some news appears in the media that has to do with the increase in public spending on the current government spending, it's often not good for society. The data is there. When, moreover, this expenditure takes place in high-ranking positions, reliable staff or any type of staff of free designation, depending in addition to the moments and social circumstances of crisis or complicated situations that are experienced, they do not like very much. Don't you? Of course, as far as senior officials are concerned, all this is decided by the Lehendakari, decided by the Government, decided by the Lehendakari, and of course we also understand that there must be senior officials in the Administration. But we also see that this payroll has increased a lot with this Government and has increased a lot in terms of senior positions in the General Administration: advisors, vice-counselors, directors, staff with managerial rank, that is, a staff of managers that has led Lakua to reach a record of senior positions, and that is an issue that is there so we do ask for explanations. The increase in expenditure on high-ranking posts of the General Administration of Euskadi compared to 2013, which was the first government, the first government budgets that Mr Urkullu presides, has been of 25.47 %, that is to say of the 10 million nine hundred and peak thousand euros, that is, that almost 3 million more to the 13.7 million euros of 2021. An evolution of the expenditure of high-ranking officials of the General Administration of Euskadi, which indeed is, truly important. But we too have not been left alone in the General Administration, our group has carried out a study on the high offices and spending of the Basque Government on high offices in 2021 and will be at least 24,856,000 euros, that is, it is a very important amount. High office of the Administration, high office of Osakidetza and a lot of companies, entities, public companies with high office, that is, gives us at least 24 million eight hundred and peak thousand euros. And we have not been able to compute in addition in that amount, which will be greater, other societies such as Innobasque, like Pengela¿?, Idei, Ortzibia, since we do not have those data specifically, we have not been able to have them, are not published. I mean, well, then, 13,700,000 of the Administration plus 6,500,000 of Osakidetza, plus a lot of entities, up to 42, of companies and companies do those 24,856,000, and missing those companies. It is clear that it is a very large figure, very important in relation to what are high offices. And in that regard, we need to be interested in that matter. It is clear that we are at the forefront of the presentation of the general budgets for 2022. And it's possible that that high-ranking game continues to grow... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... General budgets for 2022. And it is even possible that this high-ranking party continues to grow, but that is in the hands of the government. It's in the hands of the lehendakari, it's in the hands of the tax advisor, it's in the hands of the government, isn't it?, in relation to whether it's going to keep increasing that record, isn't it? We're gonna keep beating records on the high-ranking payroll, aren't we? And that record of senior positions in the government structure is also happening in the middle of... which is important... qualitatively, in the midst of a health, social and economic crisis. That is, after the 2020 elections, and with the formation of the current government, it seems that the priority of public spending should be directed – we understand – to other areas of action, more linked to recovery activities than to increasing managerial staff. Well, it's an opinion; it's there. And that's why, as I was saying, and we heard it, some media echoed the disproportionate increase in spending on high posts due to the unjustified increase in spending after the 2020 elections. I used the word disproportionate or unjustified; indeed, the news did not say so. But I was doing so because we are in the midst of a social and economic crisis, in which more economic resources need to be allocated to address the consequences of the situation generated by the pandemic and less to current expenditure on this type of current expenditure to which I referred. Those are the questions, that's the situation, and that's why I'm asking you the question, isn't it? I put to you the question: what are the reasons why the Basque Government has, at this time, increased the number of senior officials of the Basque Government. Why are there higher offices of the Basque Government than ever before in the Basque Government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u41	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, it's not the first time you've got this subject on the table. And you've asked for information like that recently. As then, we will give you all the details of this interference, of what you ask, whether we have not been successful somewhere before, and whether we are concerned with you. I'll try to destroy your prejudices, and that makes it better than using the data TAJUS and placing it in its context. You have mentioned some facts, but it is better to use them correctly and interpret them according to regulations, if we wish to make a proper estimate of the situation, and to avoid it. I'd like to think of your introductions, and the interpretations of the data you gave me, that they don't mean anything. If not, I'd think the only plan of your interaction would be to make a popular story. I don't want to think of that, so I'll try to explain things well. He said that, at the outset, I would like to make it clear that all the data I am talking about is published on our transparency portal and is publicly available. This government is committed to transparency, has nothing to hide, and is subject to citizen scrutiny in a clean and transparent manner, aligned with the high quality standards that good governance marks. As I said, the information on the number of staff positions, which, in accordance with article 2.1 of Law 1/2014, Regulator of the Code of Conduct and Conflicts of Interest of Public Charges, has such a condition, is public and is published. As a result of our commitment to the annual transfer, since 2015 this information has been publicized following the publication of the decrees approving the updated catalogue of public office posts of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi. Specifically, in the last update of this document, it was made in June 2021 with the publication of Decree 182/21. Mr Barrio, since the disproportionateness you pose in the literal tenor of your inquiry is expressly identified with the number of senior positions and their evolution, it should be clarified, from the outset, that it is the high office that defines Law 7/81, of 30 June, on the Law of Government; that is, vice-counsel, vice-counsel, and the directors and directors who will be appointed by decree and are linked to the autonomous community by a service relationship. However, as he has been informed in writing, the data published by the Government coincide with that of the budget establishment, according to which there are 194 senior posts in the General Administration and self-governing agencies. These include, in addition to members of the Government and other senior officials under Law 7/81, the staff of the Legal Advisory Commission, COJUA, the Administrative Board of Contractual Resources, OARC, and the Data Protection Delegate, who are categories assimilated to senior officials for budgetary purposes. We are talking about an increase of 12 senior positions, a 6.6% increase in the current legislature over the previous one, far from the numbers you hold. On the other hand, you refer, in your question, to the high budgetary expenditure on high and high posts. And I will give you two considerations: firstly, there have been no pay increases, beyond those approved in the Budgets Act itself, which, as you know, and on a general basis, is 0.9 %. The pay difference for senior positions with the same rank corresponds to the age to which some of them are entitled because of their status as civil servants or workers. And the second consideration, with regard to spending on high posts, the lifetime pensions of the members of the Basque Government are regulated by Law 7/81, as amended by Law 10/2012 of 30 May, which limited the assumptions that give them the right to receive them, and the amounts of these pensions are set out in Article 38 of that Law 7/81. I insist that it is data that you already know, not only because you are public, but because you have been given a full written answer to your... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... of the said Law 7/81. I insist that it is data that you already know, not only because you are public, but because you have been given a written response to your different requests for information. Consequently, these and not others are the real and comparable data, and in no case do they produce disproportionate results. The functions of each and every post reserved for the senior posts of this Government are published in detail in each of the organizational structure decrees approved by the Government. But in addition to this more functional justification, there are three aspects, three particularly noteworthy reasons that justify, defend and advise this proportionate increase. First, to respond to an unprecedented economic and social health crisis, arising from the effects of the pandemic we have been through. As you well know, public administrations are playing a key role right now. Citizenship demands from governments solutions to problems, solutions within a framework of budgetary responsibility that requires a major transformation and adaptation of our functioning. This is necessary in order to be able to face increasingly complex challenges. At the beginning of the last parliamentary term, none of us here today could even imagine that we would end up being hit by a global health crisis, a health crisis that has ended up affecting each and every area of our lives, either directly or indirectly. Therefore, these complex challenges of which I speak have been multiplied only a year and a half ago. The leadership positions needed to be strengthened to respond to the effects of the pandemic on all government management orders. Secondly, the management of new competences. You are aware of the assumption by Euskadi of powers provided for in the Statute of Gernika and which so far have not been transferred, some of them of great importance, such as the transfer of management of prisons, which will require additional human resources. We also hope that, after more than 40 years, the complete transfer process will finally be completed with new subjects to be managed by the Basque Government. And third and final reason, the management of the largest public budgets in history. Next year, as I have said, the Basque Government's budgets are expected to exceed EUR 13 billion. And, in addition, it will be necessary to channel and implement the European funds of the Next Generation programme, which will require an additional capacity to boost and implement the existing human resources. And to meet these challenges, people need to take on the public responsibility that such a commitment entails at all levels. People who respond in the front line to the scrutiny of the citizenry and to the judgment and assessment of the opposition represented in this House. Does this give rise to a disproportionate and unjustified increase in senior positions? I honestly don't think so, Mr. Barrio. Moreover, I believe that it is necessary to value and dignify the commitment that today, and in exceptional situations such as those that have touched us, are willing to assume these women and men with a deep vocation of public service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u44	Thank you, President. Thank you, lehendakari. Well, the reading, then, we do it a little backwards, don't we? More crisis, more complicated situation, higher charges. For we do not understand that this should be the case, it should not be one of the justifications for a higher level of office than for a more complicated crisis or situation. There are already high posts, and there are already staff with perfectly qualified managerial tasks to manage. And besides, you have not only talked about health, you have spoken in all the government's management orders. No, not on all government management orders, I think it'll be the other way around. That is to say, the increase in high-ranking positions linked to the crisis cannot go in that logic that you present to us. We, Mr Lehendakari, were asking that question, or that question, because it is there, because it is a concern, because when high office increases, when it becomes apparent, when it is so, our opposition work has to be to control the government in this matter. To understand that if the high-ranking payroll swells, when we have always had a very large number of high-ranking positions, well, something fails from our point of view; either because of the needs of government structures, the government pact or whatever, but we have seen that. No, because you, I mean the Basque Nationalist Party, criticized Patxi López a lot when he made his government in relation to the leaders, with the senior officials, with the trusted staff. He was very critical. Some parliamentarians, colleagues, fellow Members of this House will remember this. And yet you are not doing it, you are not keeping trust with those criticisms that were made at the time. And I now count it as an anecdote, but my job, of course, as a member of the opposition, is to analyze these real circumstances. We have done a job in relation to the positions, senior positions and all the management staff there are in relation to these issues. Because they do functions of high offices, and it is clear, and we have analyzed the 13,770,000 euros of the Administration, the 6 million Osakidetza, I say again, in relation to the high offices. And then, because a lot of structures, up to 42, some, I say again, we haven't been able to get the information, but well, there's URA, Lanbide, Etxepare, of course, the public entity EITB, SPRI, the Academy, Emakunde, Sprilur, Ihobe, Hazi. I mean, where are they, right? It reaches 24,800,000, almost 25 million euros what we have calculated. And I say again that some are not in this relationship. I, whenever I want, leave you the relationship, because you will all know it, and that comes out of the analysis we've made of the budgets. And, of course, that's the job, I understand, of opposition, to ask you. Because there is more, you have higher charges now than when you were lehendakari, started in 2013 the walk as lehendakari with budgets. And there's more, I mean, that payroll has increased, that's objective and that's there. And we understand that at a time of crisis what has to be contained is that for another kind of... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... increased that payroll. That's objective, and that's there. And we understand that at a time of crisis what needs to be contained is that for another type of recovery. It's a work of opposition. You've talked about, you've mentioned some issues as well that... in a soft tone, but has made prejudice or demagoguery. You have even spoken of hidden intentions with interpellation. I remained stoned when (...). For if hidden intentions are to know how the government works, to know what it gives to this Parliament the decisions it gives to increase high offices, because they will be hidden decisions, but, Mr Lehendakari, it is my duty. It is my duty to address the Government on this subject. Nor is it a question of transparency. No, because transparency is required. What's left is public money. That's it, that's it. It has, we all have to know how it is managed, all of us and society as a whole. It is a question, from our point of view, of the priorities of public money and of understanding, at this time, that there is an over-expenditure in high offices and all that staff that functions as a high-ranking key in the administration. And that, of course, we criticize. And that is why we understand that we will be tabling a motion to ask, first, for clarity, greater clarity, I do not say lack of transparency, but a greater order, greater budgetary clarity in relation to this type of senior positions and staff appointed by... of free designation in all public or participating enterprises. And we understand that our obligation is to demand that there be more restraint in times of crisis, that is, a reading contrary to what you have done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u45	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Barrio, I don't know if you haven't given him time or wanted to answer what my references have been on what it is to define and identify who are the senior officials in office or in response to what is the legislation we follow. In any case, you are answered the questions yes or no. You are given the explanations you make yes or no. I think they're responding to everything. And today's purpose was to further clarify some of the questions you have already received as answers. You come to compare crises or identify crises. The financial crisis of 2008 with the government of the Socialist Party of Basque monocolor, like you, supporting the government, and which meant that in 2012 I, like the lehendakari, had to reduce by 20% the number of senior officials of the Basque government, by 20% also what was the budget with 1.1 billion less budget compared to 2012. And I think it has nothing to do with the health crisis and the economic crisis that we are now suffering and that it is even more necessary to manage. Mr. Barrio, I won't tell you anything new if I tell you that we're constantly looking for the size and measure of the Basque administration in all degrees and places, always striving to maintain the balance between the administration's dimensions and the efficiency. That is evident, for instance, on the bill of law of the public Basque sector on the 29th of last December, the bill of law which is being transmitted at this day in this parliament. A few days ago I have defended the object of this enterprise in this chamber. Or we have defended that the aim is to achieve the rationalization and proper measure of the administration. That's the philosophy and the centre of the project. The challenges of the administration are great, and the continual efforts of the public and public services are to be strengthened. For our quality of life and our present and future generations are the greatest guarantees of a better future. As I have already pointed out, Mr Barrio, we are at the door of presenting the most expansive budgets of our history. The vast majority of the accounts will also be devoted to increasing efforts in the social field, an effort in public policies to improve the quality of life of citizens. Public policies that demand adequate and effective public officials in a number proportional to the demand we face, with the aim of responding to the new times that challenge us with new questions still unanswered. Each moment and situation requires different responses and solutions. And if it is necessary to adapt our governance and management model to the new times, we will do so. Investment in public policies that will certainly benefit all Basque society. This Government, with its lehendakari and advisors and advisors at the head, is also a public servant. And when this executive began his journey just over a year ago, then we were already fully aware of the crisis that we were going to face in the four years that were beginning, as I think the 2008 government had to be, 2009, sorry, supported by you. A minimal structural reform in its form was introduced by the Government. Therefore, I will only recall that the number of departments with respect to the previous legislature remained unchanged: 11, in addition to the Lehendakaritza. And precisely the number of senior officials of this government has been increased by a total of 12. In relative terms, we would be talking about a higher office than the previous legislature for each department. This would be the disproportionate and unjustified increase you allude to. And I'll tell you even more. This increase between the previous one and the current legislature is around 3 % for all the public posts of the Administration, which includes management staff from public bodies and public companies, in addition to any staff with regard to public office. You consider the current spending on high offices unjustified and disproportionate, and I say that we are faced with a weighted number of public servants at the forefront of those government responsibilities that management demands. Even more so in a situation of economic and health crisis. Each of the women and each of the men in charge of these responsibilities we answer to the whole society for the good management of the services and areas of action that the decrees of structure require us to assume. Each high office of this Government, therefore, is justified by the functions and responsibilities to which it must respond and, of course, responds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "To ask the question, Josu Estarrona Elizzo... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ...of which you must answer and, of course, answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "To ask the question, Josu Estarrona Elizdo EH Collectors to the President, around the spinning doors." Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u49	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. President, good morning. Yesterday we spoke of the use of the Egyptian Oligolipolis. We brought in the measures that the illegal and multimillonaries should not pay the citizens. And you voted against him, Judge, one of your party, as it is logical, but also with the Social Party and Poptular Party. And this is also quite logical, and is not accidental, because the last words of our friend Otero are somehow explained. In the end, there is a slave in the political strategy of some of them, looking for a seat in the administration councils of these companies. And here's one of the quintessence of that discussion. And your political position here yesterday, and even in Madrid, is, as it were, the prisoner of those spinning doors. And Antonio Miguel Carmona, the socialist politician, has gone to the Iberdrol as vice president, and anger and dispute are aroused, even though no alarm like this is there. There are also spinning doors here in Euskal Autonomy Er member. But it's not normal because it's normal, and much less more like it. That's why we're asking you if your government intends to do something to finish it with the spinning doors.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u50	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Estarrona, you've got your own code of ethics and behavior. This code affects all the members of the government, even those of the higher class, or those who are responsible for their conduct. And the object of the ethical code is to guarantee that every person who forms the government will act in a responsible and honest manner. You asked if the government is ready to take measures. It was actually one of the first measures we took in May 2013. And then in 2014, we were accepted by this year's New Year's Law of Unity. In the year 2015, we accepted a decree to develop this law by regulating the duties and rights of the superiors. Not only when duty is concerned, but also when these cares are over and done for the next two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u53	The ethical code and legislation which you have alluded to have in some measure shown that they are not useful, for these spinal doors are now given. And when we have proposed changes, you also have turned against them. For example, when you create the best methods and the most corruption office. Or this same Wednesday, because you circle the doors in different directions and degrees. This same Wednesday, with the reform of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, you did not want to close the door to cases such as José Luis Bilbao's or, without taking too much look back, you must remember Mrs Bengoetxea's leap to EITB in 48 hours, from the Chamber to EITB. Or I have Darpón and company, right, Garamendi?, from night to morning, who move from managing public health to defending the interests of private health. But, focusing on the lobby of the energy lobby that occupies us this year, who was your trusted advisor, Mr. lehendakari, Mr. Juan Diego has spent just three months as Director General of Osakidetza (...) of Edinor, a subsidiary of Petronor. And it's all right here. For the party and the spinning doors are very oily, which lead to the administrative councils of the energy sector. Mario Fernández Iberdol and Repsol, Jon Azua Games and Fenix Oil &Gas, Juan Atucha Iberdol... de Biscaia Gas, Javier Balza Iberdron and Petronor, Xabier Sadredo Iberdrola, Joseba (... ), Roberto Ochaindio Iberdronla, President of Josu Jon Imaz Petror, councillor of Repsol. And to these former public officials of the PNV must be added all those prominent people of the party: the Arrieta, (...), San Pedro, Berroeta, who co-sponsor the boards of directors of Iberdrola, Petronor, Enagas, etc. And let it be clear, let it be clear, that we and we are not against it, we are not against the legitimate professional leap to the private enterprise of people with experience in the public administration and vice versa. Let's be clear. That's right, with regulation and supervision. What we are against is these rotating doors in this country, over which there is deafening silence, and over which the voice is raised, so that things change for democratic hygiene and that, among other things, as we are living this week, some stop defending not to touch the benefits of the oligopoly of electrics at the expense of the popular classes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u54	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mr. Estarrona, the right means of transparency and, after all, the purpose we share is to guarantee our ethical conduct. We have contrivances to follow and control these conducts, and also to receive penalties and direct measures. And we've taken measures, and if it's necessary, we'll take them again. I do not conceal my concern from you when we know the distance or disaffected distance of the citizens to political and institutional actions. I take it for granted that this concern is shared. For this reason I ask you to be careful about these matters at the time of our discussion, Mr. Estarrona. Wisdom is indispensable, as even reflection is necessary. We all agree with an idea. It's positive that the institutions are open. Which means that it's positive for college, third sector, media, civil society, or professionals in the world to run the organizations and conduct. This being so, we must regulate the way of going, but make it easy, Mr. Estarra. Otherwise, if we interfere with this path, or fill it with doubt, we shall never succeed in the intervention of the representatives or professionals of those societies or corporations I have mentioned. So there's measures and controls, but there's also wisdom. This session is by the legislature teams in the Eus... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... Parting of representatives or professionals. So there's measures and controls, but there's also wisdom. This session is called in order to control the business of the congress teams. You have a wide opportunity to ask about any behavior belonging to this government, information or documentation. And I don't think this is what's happening today. You don't ask me about "Muddy" today, not about a decision that's got to do with or get engaged to her. On the other hand, you may propose to this legislature the new measures which give rise to any irregular conduct, control, and punishment. I'm inviting you to use this double option: Provincial government control and improvements. The general, complete, and constant apprehension of persons who are responsible for public responsibility, contributes nothing to the purpose we share; that is, to secure the trust of the people in the administration of the institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, by David Soso Rodríguz together of Podemos-Nozzeral members of the Antice team made to the president about the conflict of interests in the government of the Basque Administration." Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u57	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, we are not surprised by our parliamentary group, Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, the positions that your Government and your party have been holding over time in relation to energy oligopoly. We are not surprised by the position held by your parliamentary group in the Congress of Deputies in the handling of the Climate Change Act and the amendments they tabled, including the maintenance of gas exploration in Armentia. As well as its position with regard to the non-elimination of the deductions from the diesel. As well as his recent positions in relation to the royal decree that was processed yesterday in the Congress of Deputies, and that his position was ultimately abstention, even announcing that when he goes as a law to Congress they will vote against. And the fundamental reason they have given over the last few days in relation to their position has had to do with the impact and impact that this royal decree would have on industry, on companies because of the top or limit of illegitimate profits that energy oligopoly has been enjoying over time. To our parliamentary group, Elkarrekin Podemos-Ezker Anitza, what worries us is that the reason why the position of your parliamentary group and of your Government is the one that is right to be the close relations that maintain ex-members of the Basque public administration or of your party with the energy oligopoly itself. And that is why we have asked you the question that you have already been able to read: How do you assess the possible conflict of interest in which people who have held high-ranking positions in Basque public administrations who then join the boards of directors of large energy companies can take part? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u58	Thank you, Mr. Soto. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Soto, I would ask you a little bit of rigour in what is the mention of names, surnames of certain people who can participate in boards of directors of energy companies, to look also at your own home, Mr Soto. In any case, you yourself question your own claim. He talks about a possible conflict of interest when he's not sure it exists. You quote names of specific people trying to link them to an irregularity that you yourself doubt. And this strategy for me resembles the "calumnia, that something is left." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u61	Yeah. Thank you, President Senor. The truth is that I am not going to list the names of former senior officials of the Basque Public Administration or its party who are now on board. I would invite you, in any case, since you mentioned that our party or linked to our political space is part of those spaces, to say so. Because the truth is, to this day, none of my head comes to me, and, if I cool it down, it would be fine. But, in any case, it does seem to us that the relationship and connivance that may exist between former senior members of the Basque public administration with boards of administration right now of energy or gas companies of this country can lead to the positions of their party and, if necessary, of their government being those that have been in practice over the last few months and years. This is also demonstrated by his Government's position in relation to collaborations with certain energy and gas companies, for example the placement of solar mega-plants in certain protected areas of Álava or very specific investment projects for the benefit of large industrial and energy companies in that country. But also an exemplifying case of what I mention regarding possible conflicts of interest is the case of the recently presented cartel of consultants placed on the table, which would not have been given in any case if there had not been certain privileged information by members who today hold responsibilities in certain positions of the Administration to certain consultants in particular. And, therefore, we do believe that this reality of rotating doors contributes to a discredit of administration and politics. And because of this, in turn, and the previous example has been given, of the lack of lack of choice of the next president or president of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, it implies that there is, as I said, a discredit in relation to the possible practice of certain conflicts of interest.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u62	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Soto, you're the one who mentioned people. And I ask you, therefore, to be the one to remember all the people who may be members of the board of directors of energy companies. In any case, I too believe that we have already responded in this plenary. And the Government has had a code of ethics and good conduct since 2013. The government and this House, Mr. Soto, have regulated since 2014 the conflict of... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... And the Government has had a code of ethics and good conduct since 2013. The Government and this House, Mr Soto, have regulated the conflict of interests and incompatibilities since 2014. The law precisely regulates the conflict of interest. In addition, the Governing Council adopted in 2016 a decree that regulates this law, including obligations and rights. Our legislation provides that there is a conflict of interest when, and I quote, persons bound by law who intervene in the making of decisions relating to matters in which the general interest or the public interest entrusted to their function and private interests, own or shared with third persons or direct family members, converge. It also provides that public office staff for the two years following the date of their termination may not enter into a business or commercial relationship with companies, companies or any private entity with which they had a direct relationship. I don't understand you asking for an assessment of a possible conflict of interest. If the conflict exists, action is taken with determination, if it does not exist, a minimum of prudence and respect is required. If you have any doubts, you can make consultations and make complaints or complaints to the Ethics Code Commission. It can be done from any instance. We have a regulatory framework and a monitoring and control procedure for its verification. You also have the option of resorting to the courts. When, without certainties, the focus of the accusation is placed on individuals, in addition to irreparable personal damage, trust in politics is undermined, in our work, Mr Soto, moreover, in practice it is making it difficult to access public responsibility for people who, as I have said before, can carry out their work in the university, in the company, in the media, in entities, in associations or in the third social sector. I do not believe in the endogamy of political action or in political and institutional action. I believe just the opposite, I believe in the closeness and relationship between institutions and civil society. Having held a public office, Mr Soto, cannot be a cause of suspicion or disqualification for another public or private responsibility, provided that the law is complied with. And I can assure you that the Government is the first interested party in complying with established ethical principles, not only those relating to conflicts of interest and incompatibilities, but also those relating to institutional respect, transparency, accountability and exemplaryness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, the popular team of the Ciudadans, a member of the Ogs Department of Economics, an economic guide to the economic policy of the 2022 Esquido Preservations of Basque Autonomy. " Mr. Gordillo is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u65	Thank you, President, Mr Azpiazu. Firstly, allow me to thank you here publicly for appearing before this Parliament. There is nothing more important for a member of the Government than to appear before the supervisory body, which in this case is Parliament, and I thank him in that regard. In June, Mr Azpiazu, he sent us a document to the economic spokespersons on the economic guidelines for the preparation of budgets with a macro-economic picture, that is to say, of the large figures, which has been more than out of date. As I understand that the preparation of the draft budgets is already being finalized, I ask you: what are the actual economic guidelines your department is using for the preparation of the budget? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u66	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u67	Eskerrik asko Legebiltzarreko President andrea, lehendakari, Sailburuok, thank you very much Mr Gordillo. I recognize that it is always interesting to discuss economic issues with you, although it is true and I cannot deny that I am confused about the approach and yours (?) asks, in some ways, why there is no inconsistency between the macroeconomic picture of the budgetary guidelines adopted by the Government on 8 June and the one recently presented after the final report of the second quarter of the Basque economy. Both reflect the economic situation and the forecasts at the time they were presented, and, of course, the one that will be used for the preparation of the budget of the Basque Government for the year 22 will be that of the second quarter, which is the last available. Of course, Mr Gordillo, because it contains the best and most up-to-date information you can count on, is more, and I would tell you for your peace of mind, I will tell you that the macroeconomic picture of the second quarter reflects the improvement experienced by the Basque economy in recent months. An increase in annual GDP of 18,6 % with all the main sectors of the Basque economy growing intensely in their value added figures. These data have enabled the macroeconomic scenario to be updated for the year 21 and 22 carried out by the Directorate of Economics and Planning. The expected growth for this year remains the same as in the first quarter, real growth of 6.7% of GDP and the GDP growth rate for the year 2022 to 6.4 is seven tenths higher. It is also true that, as always, and more so at this time of special economic slump, the forecasts are subject to contingencies, which are clearly hardly predictable: the evolution of the pandemic, inflationary tensions, the supply of raw materials, the price of energy and a long period of time. For the record, I would also like to point out that the macroeconomic table for the second quarter will be used as a reference for the budget for the year 22. It has been endorsed by the independent science of fiscal responsibility, which issued its corresponding report on 8 October, highlighting the prudence of the estimates made and ensuring that the requirements of European legislation are met. In addition, I would like to say that this adviser is always willing to come to this House when you require it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u68	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u69	Thank you very much, Counselor. I will remind you of what implementation has been in what this current budget has been. I take you to ask your department questions, which, by the way, I also appreciate that unlike the answer itself, the truth is that they are quite elaborate unlike other departments, or for example, government presidency. Look, Mr Azpiazu, you prepared the budgets with an initial forecast of nine and peak percent, then went down to eight and peak, and in the end you had to go through the thermometer of the Basque economy to 6.7%, almost three points from what was initially considered. On the barrel, the price of the Brent barrel, I asked him on one occasion and he came to me to say: well, the rise of the Brent barrel is not significant, and therefore, there will be a correction. Look, you made a forecast with the Brent barrel at $61 and it's already going for 84. As far as consumer confidence is concerned, it is not boycotting either. And you say: well, you're not recovering at the pace that was being predicted. Well, it's a way of recognizing it, too. As for the revision of the forecasts of the 21st, because again he had to do, every time it was published... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... He's recovering at the pace he was predicting. Well, that's a way of recognizing it, too. As for the revision of the forecasts of the 21st, because again it had to do, every time a thermometer of the Basque economy was published, it had to make a correction down. As far as interest rates are concerned, I see that this is not a matter of concern to you, especially because, of course, until debt issues are carried out a little bit later... But, man, I am worried that we will accumulate debt that future generations will have to pay. As for the increase in the price of electricity, I also asked him and did not give him too much importance at the time. In addition, you said there that this is an issue that is cyclical, that will be resolved and that, therefore, you do not or do not consider your department that this issue is going to affect, I read it textually: "it does not foresee that the impact that the rise of electricity, inflation and, consequently, the Basque economy may have, is important and will therefore be relatively small". Well, man, you'll tell me how the situation is because the truth is that companies are announcing stopovers, restrictions, restructurings, etc. I also asked him about the increase in raw materials in industry, especially semiconductors. Nor did he consider it to be a major issue. And, listen, we've seen that there are companies that have also seen their production interrupted, are making important adjustments. You told me in your reply that the financial support programmes were adequate. It seems that now his Government is fortunately rethinking it, because it is certainly not enough. I also asked him about the depletion of construction products. For he also told me that, man, that that was not a matter to worry about at that time and that little by little it will be corrected. Man, it's okay for things to be arranged on their own, but I think it's appropriate for the government to make available to it all the means of society and businesses, all the mechanisms necessary for these things not to happen because they end up harming us all. How do we fix this, Mr. Azpiazu, in the end? That is to say, we make a budget, you present us with a budget on the basis of indicators that are very favourable. But of course, then he realizes that the indicators were not so favorable and is correcting. How do you fix it? As we have seen last week, shuddering a little to the parliaments and municipalities and, then, stopping executing investments. I ask you, Mr Azpiazu, to bring us a budget that is not a sticky copy of previous years, a budget that really takes into account the national and international economic context and, ultimately, a budget that is transparent. In short, Mr Azpiazu, I really ask you to bring us a budget that is credible and there you will have us to talk to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u70	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u71	Mr Gordillo, I am afraid you will not be the only one who can vary your economic forecasts, but I am Keynesian in that. When reality changes, the macroeconomic picture changes, but the macroeconomic picture I'm going to present is the best I can present. Don't you? It is important for everyone that we mark the guidelines in addition to the budget of a scenario that goes beyond the macroeconomic picture, because that would be too simplistic. The economic guidelines focus on taking full advantage of the window of opportunity offered by the arrival of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan funds and the relaxation of fiscal rules to approve an expansive budget that, on the one hand, consolidates the exit from the crisis and repairs the impact of the pandemic on social and institutional structures, and, on the other hand, launches an ambitious investment plan such as the one that will contemplate this budget and in which I hope to obtain, as you say, its support or at least its initial approach. They prioritize the effort of the health system, will meet the needs of the most needy households and groups, boost the education system, support the business fabric and especially SMEs, strengthen active employment and training policies, and bet on quality employment. The economic guidelines, Mr Gordillo, are the vivid image of Euskadi's commitment to consolidating a renewed model of sustainable economic development; a model that reinforces the potential for wealth creation and the creation of quality jobs, and an economy that advances towards digitalisation and society, innovation and knowledge, respecting the balance of the planet and contributing to the challenge of global warming; a model that, in its broadest sense, establishes an increasingly firm and determined commitment by people. On that we are, Mr Gordillo, waiting for you on the task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u72	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interadectation, Jon Hernandez Hidalgo, together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos-Nodemos, made to the Chief Economy, Economism, and Environmental Department of ITP Aero." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u73	Good morning, everybody. Good morning, chief physician. ITP Aero is an important aerospace company that has been very present in recent months in the Basque news, due to several labor disputes, but also due to the uncertainty that has arisen from the company's sales operation by which Rolls-Royce, sole shareholder for a few years, intends to divest from this asset. The Basque Government, mainly in its mouth, has also spoken in this regard by announcing its willingness to invest up to 200 million euros in the operation, provided that the company's roots in our territory are secured and jobs, employment, are maintained. We do not know whether the maintenance of the company's roots in the territory is at present in question, especially if we simply mean the maintenance of the registered office, which, of course, in the opinion of our coalition, would be a mistake. But there is at the moment, of course, a major threat to the maintenance of employment, as the company is raising major collective redundancies in recent months, as you know well. PCB, you know it too, is one of the important legs of this group in Euskadi, and is trying to fire almost a hundred workers through a regulatory file at the Barakaldo and Sestao plants. A regulatory dossier whose sole objective, in the opinion of the trade unions – an opinion to which, of course, our group joins – seems to be to make the sale of the whole of ITP more attractive. Against this collective dismissal that is being pursued and PCBs there are already four rulings in the courts that declare it null and void giving reason to the staff. However, it seems that the company is committed to moving forward with its intention of dismissing and destroying employment, even against these court rulings. That is why he maintains an appeal against the sentences and why they also deny the reinstatement of women workers to jobs. It seems to us that this is politically criticizing, and we think that the Basque Government should be particularly strong on the subject at a time when the entry into the ITP company with capital is being raised... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... and we think that the Basque Government should be particularly strong on the subject at a time when public capital is being proposed for entry into the ITP company. If the company achieves its objective, the investment operation of the Basque Government would not meet that requirement which you yourself have placed as a condition, the maintenance of employment. On the contrary, it would start from an unacceptable situation of destruction of skilled employment, in this case in the PCB company, more than 80 jobs; behind which, we cannot forget, there are more than 80 people and their families. That is why we believe that the announced public investment does not seem compatible with the execution of these redundancies, as the company claims. We therefore believe that it is necessary to know what the Basque Government is thinking and what it is going to do in the face of them, and in the face of the action and the attitude of the company, taking into account the court rulings declaring those dismissals null and void. We Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, of course, today we will take advantage of this forum also to criticize the attitude of the company's management, and to tell the managers of ITP and PCB that what they are doing is not acceptable. We use this forum to tell the company publicly that it must withdraw the remedy and rejoin workers to their legitimate jobs. Because we believe that it is not acceptable for the company to try to leave more than 80 people on the street, using them as a currency of exchange, to make a sales transaction more profitable; more so now, when the courts have ruled that dismissals do not occur, that they are contrary to rights, that they are null and void and that workers must recover their jobs. But it is not relevant what our coalition thinks in this regard, but what it thinks and says to the Basque Government. It is the Basque Government that must tell them this in a clear and public way, and, together with this, act in the operation of entry into the company so that the remedy is withdrawn and women workers are readmitted to their jobs. Recently, a representation of the staff was on the Labour and Employment Committee of this Parliament to present their situation. I'm sure you'll know him. In their appearance they criticized that while you raised the possibility of acquiring a minimum participation that would allow a chair on the board of shareholders, making it conditional on the maintenance of the job, you have not at any time expressed your opposition to the attitude of the company, that you do not intend to comply with the judgments, and, in addition to bringing an appeal against them, you have at home at this time the workers without returning them to their jobs. Against not only the legitimate demands of trade unions, but against the decisions of the courts. The workers were wondering, the workers, we took advantage to ask ourselves and to ask you with them, where is now the right to work, so expressed by this councillor, by yourself, in your criticism on more than one occasion of the actions of pickets in different strikes that have taken place in this and other companies in recent months. We think, Madam Counsellor, that this would also be a good opportunity for you and the Government to claim the right to work, but on this occasion telling the company that it is denying that right to 83 people it keeps at home without allowing them to work. The workers' representatives also raised the following issue in this Parliament. In the event that the judgments were favourable to the company, what would the Basque Government have said in this regard? We don't have the answer, but I will. I believe that the Basque Government would have said that the sentence should be respected and enforced. We also believe that the Basque Government should be required to do so, more so if the intention to invest public money in ITP is indeed firm, to demand respect and enforcement of the sentence. But asking for respect and enforcement of judgments, in this case, is to tell the company to withdraw the appeal against that judgment and to tell it to reintegrate the workers immediately into their jobs. We would like, Madam Counsellor, for your department and for the Basque Government to have the same opinion, because to date it does not seem to be so. Of course, this is the impression that the workers have when they have passed through this house. Rather, it seems that, as usual, they will not amend the plan to a business attitude which, in our view, is not acceptable. It is not acceptable, not because the representatives of the workers say so, but because it comes, we think, with the endorsement of judicial rulings that this collective dismissal is null and void and that, therefore, the workers should already be in their jobs today. That is why we also find contradictory the statements of the Basque Government when it says it is willing to participate in the shareholdership of this company, provided that the employment is maintained; if, in turn, it is not able to acquire a commitment to that job that is currently at risk in that same business group. In this case, moreover, it is not a mere aid. We are talking about a participation in the company with a significant economic cost to the public coffers, and that is why we think it has to be done with strategic approaches that go beyond helping a company based in Euskadi and claiming that this will guarantee the root and employment. We think it has to be done with the aim of having decision-making capacity on the company itself in favour of the general interest. General interest which, of course, in our view, includes, among many other issues, employment, but also the defence of the people who are now part of the group's staff. We agree with public investment in strategic enterprises, and we agree with public investment in this particular enterprise, but always conditional not only on social roots, but also on the maintenance of employment, respect for the rights of workers and the ability to intervene in business decision-making. Because the latter is fundamental to all of this. The concern of the PCB staff is evident after the sale agreement between Rolls Royce and Bain Capital, a vulture fund that we all know or can guess what it comes to: to get the maximum profit in the shortest possible time, fall whoever falls. The staff is therefore waiting, Madam Counsellor, for facts from the Basque Government. But within these facts it also expects something as simple as the Basque Government's public demand that the company withdraw the threat posed by this resource and immediately reintegrate these workers. The key question will surely be how the Government will implement participation in this enterprise and what mechanisms it will implement to protect jobs. But there is a previous question right now, what is the commitment of this government... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... this company, and what mechanisms it will implement to protect jobs. But there is a previous question right now. It is: what is the commitment of this government to those who are already part of this company and this business group, and their jobs are at risk despite court rulings that they should be in their jobs. It seems to us that this is the proof of cotton, before knowing what the real commitment of this government is to maintaining employment, when it announces an investment in a company of this great caliber.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u74	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Hernandez, chief physician... You're alone right now... Congressmen, good morning to all. We have opened the debate, Mr Hernández, in this case, with the holder concerning the sale, but your question is mainly focused, and your intervention has mainly focused on the labour dispute, especially after having been brought to justice, and, as you say, the court has handed down a ruling in favour of the working people. And I also remind you of something that you said: "Workers appear in the Committee on Labour and Employment, because it is the Committee that has competence in labour relations." However, I will tell you that, in any case, as usual, this Department has held, not one or two, but numerous meetings with workers' representatives on the company committee, to listen, to attend to their circumstances, and to facilitate coordination with the Department of Labour and Employment, in that case, looking for the channels that are needed to initiate a process of rapprochement with the management of the company, which is what it is all about. Because, indeed, sincere dialogue and rapprochement between the parties with the will of agreement is the only way to resolve any kind of conflict. And we have seen it recently, in a conflict that has lasted many months, that has also been judicialized and found a way to find that solution. And I would like to remind you, in this regard, of one aspect. And it is that, from the Basque Government, not only from the Department, we believe in an inclusive and participatory model of the company. In a model that has also been unanimously approved in this House in September 2018. A model of Basque company – we said – that is not rigid, that is open to change and progressive implementation according to the concrete reality of each company. A model where workers, management team and property share a development project, both from the company itself and from the personal development projects of all the workers of that company. Where the relationship of trust, transparency, communication are an intrinsic part of the management model that is applied in a metallic way. It is a model, in short, that allows us to move towards this modern, transformative economy, with quality jobs – which you cited – with an industrial and technological basis based on people. A model that guarantees long-term sustainability. And when we talk about labour conflict, we have to refer to something that we share with those in this House, we share with the government, and we also have to be proactive in carrying out these kinds of actions to resolve these labour conflicts. Let me also make a brief reference, as you have initially made, to the general context in which we are working in the Basque aeronautical sector at the moment. We were already talking about this in February-March – I think I remember – to a question that was also asked from EH Bildu in relation to the ITP sales process, and to point out that the Basque aeronautical sector is one of the most relevant at the moment in our industry and that it has a position, moreover, remarkably well located in the international sphere. We have, of course, in addition to ITP, tractor companies such as Aernnova, Aciturri, Sener, Alestis... And besides these tractor companies, I do not want to forget, and you do not want to forget, a significant and extensive network of small and medium-sized enterprises, technological centres, of the entire value chain that depends on the activity of these tractor companies. Therefore, not only the current survival of these projects, but that present and future of all these companies, the small and the tractors, we have to work together to, of course, have a value chain for the future, where we also have other sectors – and we were talking about it at that time – such as that of the highly involved machine-tool, or the TEIC sector, which are essential for the aeronautical sector to flourish as well. Therefore, ITP is relevant as a tractor company, yes, but we have to rise a little further – let me express it – and see the entire aeronautical sector. If, moreover, we consider the context in which we find ourselves, in addition to those societal particularities in which changes take place such as that of ITP at this time, where shareholders that existed disappear and others appear, we have to take into account that the aeronautical sector as a whole has been and is being one of the most affected by the crisis of COVID-19. International mobility has been absolutely halted, and I remind you only what the sector itself says: that it will not recover more or less the situation prior to the covid until at least 2024. We have an important way to go. And, of course, from the government, in addition to attending to the process of buying ITP, we have to attend to the whole sector, and we have discussed this in this case. Well, what is the work we have done with this whole context of labour relations and the context of the economic situation of the aeronautical sector over the last few months in which we have focused a lot, but not only on the sale of ITP by Rolls? Well, the Department's main objective has been to ensure that an appropriate project is developed to maintain, as you said, not just a social and fiscal headquarters, but a consolidated and future project here in Euskadi. We must therefore have a future industrial project with roots in Euskadi. And what does that mean? Well, let us overcome these consequences of this crisis, which has been very deep in the aeronautical sector, rather than perhaps in other areas, but which guarantees us the... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... the consequences of this crisis, which has been very profound in the aeronautical sector, more than perhaps in other areas, but which guarantees us the maintenance of employment and activity. And that's our premise at all times. And, moreover, maintaining and, if possible, improving the positioning of the entire aeronautical sector and also of ITP in the exit from the crisis. Let them take advantage of the opportunities arising from the major transitions that are being worked out at global level, and let these European resources also come to this kind of action. We must not forget that in the air transport sector we have a long way to go on the subject of decarbonisation. And, of course, ITP can be a primordial element. And, in addition, to draw the Basque aeronautical sector, that is, that not only in this process of buying and selling we take into account who the shareholders are, but that there is a guarantee of employment in the ITP itself and a guarantee of work with Basque suppliers, which allows us to continue working in the whole sector. It has been months of meetings, hours of conversation, both with the state government, with Rolls-Royce herself, with potential shareholders, who have been more than one, over time to show two very clear things. Our commitment to work for the future of ITP, but based on principles of roots, yes, but of employment of people who currently exist in the company itself, directly, of indirect jobs, which can also be considered as relevant and of the entire value chain. Therefore, they have been two premises that have been on the table constantly. Throughout the process, there have been discussions at different levels, and, following the agreement already reached in September, an initial agreement that is still to be ratified until May 2022 between RollsRoyce and the Bain Investment Fund for the purchase of ITP. We have already indicated that the final operation was in line with the conditions that had been established by the Basque Government, where the main focus was on the industrial project, both for the development of the industry itself, it said, of suppliers and also of employment. We cannot therefore jeopardise the performance or activity of the ITP company. And there have been difficult times, and it is not hidden, in which there has been a risk that this operation would derail, not in the sale process, but in the way it was to be carried out. And we have managed, of course, with intense work, to renew that negotiation and to pick up those main aspects. That doesn't mean that the result is the best or the best. But it is a possible scenario that allows us to continue to work precisely on this future project and on the employment of workers. For the Government, the assumptions that had been established in this sales process, among others, were that ITP would be considered a strategic company in aeronautics, in the Basque aeronautics sector, that its decision-making centre, its tax domicile and its registered office would remain in Euskadi, that the industrial project would be solid, with investments, with R+D+I, with a stake in employment, and a project that would consolidate activity from here, from Euskadi. It does not mean that plants that are located elsewhere, such as may be in Madrid or may be in Mexico, are not taken into account, but are based on plants in Euskadi. We also called for measures to ensure control of these actions. And, to ensure that control, of course, our possible presence in the shareholdership, the quantitative part of what that presence is going to entail, in addition to that, the important thing, of course, is to fix those guarantee mechanisms so that all the requirements set out are met. What do we mean by that? Of course, that once it has been done, let's say, that initial agreement in September, all that is to be carried out...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u77	Thank you for the answer, Mrs Tapia. The truth is that we would lack much detail about the question we ask you and the question we have asked you in writing, even if you tell me about the requirements that the mechanisms will put in place to ensure that these issues are met. But you speak of certain premises and, when you spoke of the premises that you pose to carry out this operation, you made reference to one that I am very interested in, because you make reference to those who are already in the group, which is where I went in my question. But not because of a casual issue or because I like to talk about my book or labor conflicts, etc., but because this operation, its conditions, and you have made reference to it, is the maintenance of employment. And he has made reference to those who are already. Of course, we are surprised, it contrasts us that you explain this here and, at the same time, you are not able to ask for what the workers of this particular company of the ITP group of PCBs, who have a sword of Damocles on them, despite the judgments in favor and are asking them to clearly say that the company must withdraw that resource and must reintegrate the workers, who have them at home, despite the sentence, to their jobs. Because that's job maintenance. So, from the point of view of the workers and, of course, from the point of view of a coalition like ours, it is difficult to have sufficient confidence in your Government and in the action of your department, when you are talking about putting in place sufficient guarantees to ensure that the maintenance of employment in this operation is one of the requirements to be met, when they are not able to manifest themselves in favour of these workers who are already in the group and whose jobs might be at risk. And that we are seeing the company that, in a blatant way, is moving forward with its intention of destroying this job. That's what contrasts us. And that's why I relate these two issues, not because I like to talk about my book and labor conflicts. It seems to us that it would be necessary, I know that you can also tell me that sometimes discretion is necessary. I don't know if... when they talked... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... labour disputes. We think it would be necessary. I know that you, perhaps, can tell me that sometimes discretion is necessary. I don't know if... when they've talked to ITP or when they've talked to different potential shareholders they've talked about these issues. I don't know if they've transferred this matter to ITP or PCB managers in private. But I think it would be public and notorious, and well, for this operation, that you should make an open statement and make it clear that at the moment it is not appropriate for PCBs to move forward with their intentions of destroying this job, of leaving these 83 people on the street. It is not appropriate, because there are already court rulings in favour of workers. And it does not proceed because the Basque Government is interested and is in an entry operation with public capital in the company. We think it's of general interest. And it also coincides with the approach you make yourself: maintaining employment. And it seems to us, as I said before, that that would be the best test of cotton so that opposition groups like ours could trust that this operation will be done in that way, with that requirement of maintaining employment, in this case, in the PCB company. Therefore, I, taking advantage of the question and thus relating it, ask you publicly to position yourselves in this regard. I think it would not put the operation at risk at all, and I think you are aware of it, but it would give important confidence to the workers and, of course, to groups like ours would lead us to have greater confidence in the action of this government when it comes to investing in public enterprises, because we are in favour, as I have said before, of investing in companies, of public investment in companies, forgiveness. But with a number of requirements, they are not just those that you pose. We believe that the importance of having decision-making capacity is fundamental to all those objectives that you have set, including the maintenance of employment. And we ask you, therefore, to take a stand on this, because it seems to us, as I said, that this would be a good way to start this operation: to commit to the job that is already in place, that already exists in the group and that part of the group is trying to destroy at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u78	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u79	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Hernandez, I was telling you when I have fulfilled the time that precisely these guarantees of performance must be brought to a shareholder pact. A shareholder pact where we really have the capacity to take a number of decisions on very specific and very relevant issues, of course, from the point of view of the Basque Government. And that's where we're working, whatever the stock composition. And so we've been transmitting it to all the funds we've been working with over these months. And always demonstrating and showing our preference, because in addition to that financial partner there are industrial partners who really also help to maintain that important industrial performance in the company. And aspects that we have put on the table. Specifically, the company's roots in Euskadi and autonomy in decision-making. If there is an industrial partner that is relevant, make decisions from here. Maintaining confidence in the existing human team at this time; in the leadership team, yes, but also in the current staffing table. That's in that way somehow transmitted. Investment in R & D & I in Euskadi. Collaboration with the supply chain with all that the sector as a whole. Participation in future programs and projects that allow the growth of the company. And for that we will use all the tools that are in our hand. One of them is the possible participation in the takeover of capital, provided that the shareholders' pact faithfully collects these aspects in a clear and decision-making manner by the Basque Government. And this has been and will continue to be the main contribution that we will make to the future of the activity in the company ITP. A contribution that, of course, I trust can also have a positive effect on those people affected by the ERE, who have been brought to justice, who have given them the reason and who, at this time, we require that this company continue to work with the people it has on its staff. But I want to insist on one more aspect. It is not the most appropriate way to work to bring about judicialized conflicts. We believe that a relationship of trust, transparency and sincere collaboration really has to be the way in which we have to work in the future. We are therefore going to try to ensure that, if, of course, we enter the company as partners, all these aspects are guaranteed in the shareholders' agreement, and that, in addition, we work on aspects that we call non-technological innovation, which are often not given as much importance as technology, but in cases like this, a different management model can really mark a differential fact in terms of the forms of work for the future. We will try to ensure that these two aspects are considered comprehensively and that we can move forward and that ITP remains, of course, one of the relevant companies and tractors in the Basque aviation sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "The question is, that Muriel Larre Lasoa, the member of the popular-Ciudads, made to the head of the Economics, patience, and environmental department, about the sea coast of the Kantian coast." Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u81	Good morning, thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, members of Parliament. Look, in the explanatory part of my question, I was saying, for example, that when the ETB news came out this summer about the withdrawal of a network within the Passages, it turns out that the only thing that worried us was the journalist's vest that gave the news. Whatever it was left to worry about the environment. To some it seems that we only care about the terrestrial environment, the greenness of the fauna and flora, of our mountains. But what about our land under the sea? What about our seas. What about those fishes. Beyond the order... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... of fauna and flora, of our mountains. But what about our land under the sea? What about our seas. What about those fishes. Beyond the commission in 2010 of an Oceana report that studied the fauna and flora of our seabed, nothing at all. And, hey, it's important that the sector... for the fishing sector to defend the species that grow on our coast. And the question is very simple: what surveillance and protection measures will your department take to control and punish those who dirty the marine environment." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u83	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Muriel, as you said, of course at the moment it is a problem of a global nature, of serious impact. And that the type of waste we find, of marine waste are of various characteristics, origins, sizes, composition and so on, but it is no less true that most of them are plastics, they are of a plastic nature, the waste that accumulates on our coasts. And we see them, but 75% of them are on the seabed. Therefore, we have to bear in mind that they come from many areas, but above all from two: one, from fishing, but, well, in our case it can be about 16% from fishing, and another 84% has other origins that are on the ground and probably from our customs and uses. If we analyze it also in the area of the Gulf of Biscay, we will say in Iparralde and in all that is our coast, we can also realize that, given the marine currents that we have, we have a little more than the average situation on our seabed. And we have to work on it through measures, first of all, analysis and, of course, action measures. What are we doing? Well, first of all, of course, to monitor what is happening both from the point of view of deep sea pollution and in the coastal area, with particular attention to microplastics. To create a platform that coordinates us all who are acting in this area. Minimize the presence of marine garbage, attacking from two points of view: from the coast, as we said, with the fishing field, and from the sea. Use all that we collect from the point of view of the eco-innovation and reuse of those plastics and that we can reintroduce them into the supply chain. Working in a special way with the port area also of the Basque Government itself, initially at least, trying to reuse those, well, because they are networks or other tools that use our arrays, so that we also try from land to avoid the occurrence of additional pollution. Therefore, we are also continuing with waste collection initiatives and so on. But we believe that most of our future work is in prevention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u85	Thank you, counselor, for your very comprehensive answer. But I also want to tell you that what we can do from here is go a little further. We have a privileged environment under the sea floor. And that report I mentioned earlier, Oceana's, already said that we had several endangered species and several vulnerable species in our funds. It would be interesting to revisit that situation to see what has been the evolution in the last 11 years. It's said soon, but it's 11 years old. And a new report of those characteristics would be to give us a real reading of what happens to our marine fauna and flora, to preserve it. And that, besides, I'm going to say one thing, with the experiences that have emerged in others... on other coasts, on other seas on the peninsula, we know perfectly well that the protection of these means causes a rebound effect that greatly improves fishing in those places. So, I think we should go further and we should make more bets. Apart from what is awareness and not spilled to the seas from the coast, it is very important what we do to protect the marine environment, as we are doing with our mountains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u87	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Muriel, I agree that we not only have to act on that marine environment. That is why I was telling him that we need to analyse what is happening, how it affects fishing, but not just fishing, but all the fauna we have in the marine environment. And from there, our close collaboration with AZTI, which is, of course, one of the centers that best characterizes what is happening. And it really helps us to take measures, above all, to manage and reduce the waste that we are carrying to the sea, whether it be by fishing, but also by what we are acting from the ground. We have to avoid that arrival of waste to the sea by constantly analysing what is happening as to the amount of waste that exists, but also to your condition to the marine environment, as you said. But I think we have the best collaborator. And, of course, in this sense we will continue to work, not only with them, but also with the outside delegations themselves, with an agency like URA, which is very relevant in terms of cleaning, for example, the river channel, so that we do not take the plastic that exists in the rivers and the garbage that exists in the rivers to the sea, but try to avoid it beforehand. We have a long work to do, but I think it might be the right way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, which has been made by the members of the Obi-Gabrido team to the head of economics, patience, and environmental department, about the scientific plan of resectoral energy." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u89	Good morning, everyone. Mrs. Tapia, good morning. The mythical transition, you know, is one of those klabe challenges in front of us. You've often said that we can make a great deal of harmony. We agree. Eta are duzu erer gauza intersgarri bat: that the energy transition either we make it or we make it. Eta berriro was a teenager, ze gure ustez "we do" hori bagita ére da lurraldea ordaatzea, noski. It was decided that this trial should be arranged in the Law of Emensurment, and it was decided to present the Renaissance Plant Land within two years. But it's been two and a half years, and the process seems to us to be slow and semi-stop. The question is: How's the work going? How's the cooperation going? What time are we talking about? And in the meantime, is the bar free?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u90	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u91	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Otero, I'm glad to meet the agreements on this subject sometimes... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u92	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Otero, I'm glad we have some bargains on this subject, and I think it's a job for us to do together. Each of us from its positions, but we must seek something in the middle, and in this case we succeeded in making a new PTS start. It's true we're late, but I'll tell you what (... We have them. In the meantime, let us state a thing which we will not and will not, and it is not a free bar at all. We've always said we'll do what we're gonna do with all our guarantees, and I confirm that here, in front of the camera, it will be. Zer egin dugu? Don't you like PTSaren tramitazioan? Lehen phasea bukatuta dago, eta badirudi lehen phasea izan daitekeela errazena, bainsa kasu honetan saiatu gara ba parte-hartze prozesu era abar la zabala izazen, éta pandemia ére hor egon da, bainsa egia da agian azkarrago egin zitekeela. Hori onartuz, will zer egin say oran art? We have already completed the first phase of previous actions in which the following work has been carried out: that of prior consultations, the opening resolution has been published and we have made a first phase of citizen participation by drawing up a basic document presenting objectives, scope, methodologies, and aiming to continue with the processing. The basic document has been presented to various groups and social partners, with nine workshops with agents, 47 different agents represented in 109 people, with entities and departments associated with the Basque Government, the associative, environmental and social sector, outlaws, Eudel, business and trade union organizations, Basque energy companies, universities, clusters, municipalities. Well, I think there has been an important process that, along with three focus groups, one for each territory, representing citizens and an open debate in Irekia, has already allowed us to have a document with all the contributions that will allow us to address the progress of the strategic plan and to address the second phase of what this plan is going to be. This second phase requires the environmental impact assessment, as you know, a hearing with territorial public administrations, a second process of citizen participation, and we hope that in two and a half months, three, will be completed. From there, well, the processing will still last a while, but we think we're going in the direction we have to go. A little slower than expected, yes, but the first phase has already been carried out, and we believe that with quite intense participation and active listening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u94	I'm inviting you to speed up that process because while there's trouble. I think it was Seneca, Mrs Tapia, who said that no wind is favorable for those who do not know which port they are heading to. And it gives me the feeling that this may be happening to us, because I think we are quite disorderly; haizea hippide badugu. Oraintxe bertan zortzi proyektu eolikoen bueltan gabiltza, Araba jomugan, Arkamu, Iturrieta, Labraza, Azazeta, orin Azazeta II.a, Arlaban, Aramaio Cantoblanco, tartean undertaken deberdinak. Horretaz gain, fotovoltaikoan Ekienea, Ekiola age taken ezberdin battery bat, lur bila han age hemen. Dakigula, Arabako lautadako hainbat herrietan, Arrazua-Ubarrundia, Tomorrow village. Eta egiari zor, galtzen hasiak gaude hainbete proyektuekin, zuek ez? Right now we don't know how many megwattts are retactable projecting, who it wants to perform, when. We do not know what kind of planning it is that the eucalyptic strategy with myrgetic, or with the plans of the state, or merely with the interests of the army, is here making the retractable extension. What wouldn't be the good news, would it? Eolikan gauza zehatzak, Arkamu eta Iturrietari uko egin diozuela esan duzue, baina Is this formalized? And when and why? Because there are reports from the Basque Government that they are talking about the incompatibility with the conservation of the environment? Because the Ministry hasn't solved the impact statement, has it? And we have more doubts about the announcement of the second park in Azazeta. Join the previous project? Because if it is, if it unites, it exceeds 50 megawatts, then should we start the whole process again in Madrid? Or are they going to be dealt with separately? But then we would have a problem, perhaps of fraud of law, by fragmentation of projects. They're not the only problems we're going to add electric lines to everything. Now fastened to retractable appearances: The sea of sea-fish, the Gatica-France, Murutart-Sax. Now two lines of high intensity, one from Sakana, the other from Errisha, one to Gatica. Is this a funk? Or what need have you to say about the new framer for our country? We see some renunciation of ordering the territory and ordering this whole process through consensus, and instead of mapping where it is, where it is not, when, how much, and how much, and instead of all that, in the end it is acting the market, and sometimes with public impulse. And, in addition, it is acting above all on Araba, in which there are agricultural sectors, livestock, the rural world in general, which is seeing that there is a bump coming on it. You see with uncertainty a lot of movements, a lot of randomness, often that they smell quite speculative, and we are getting nothing but a mistrust and a rejection of this transition project, which we agree that we have to do yes or yes, ezta? It is necessary for the citizen's attachment, but it seems to us that things are not at all right. And I think this attachment is absolutely necessary, because the energy transition needs speed and things have to be set right.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u95	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u96	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Otero, in the second place, you've asked me a lot of questions and I'll try to answer. On the one hand, we don't refuse the organization. We are passing through, and our aim is to make this arrangement within a continental system. And that's why I've been spending some time in a process of this kind. We must say that we still have a PTS running, it's old, but there is. And projects and interests are different, but one thing is interest and the other is making real transitions. We do our reports to those who are being treated, and you have mentioned the two very exact refusals we have sent our reports to the Ministry. Of course, it's his jurisdiction, but our environmental reports have been negative. So... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... What we have said was rejected, we have sent our reports to the Ministry. Of course, it's his jurisdiction, but our environmental reports have been negative. So there's the detailed information. Which also proves something I have said here. One thing is that we must make the transition, but the other must make the transition with all our guarantees. And we will examine either of them, or ten, when they come really and begin the treatment. Intinations are intentions, but it proves that we did it, and I think we did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "I'm asking, Joseph Manuel Gilegas, the popular team of the Ciudadans, a member of Economics of Economics and Environmental Department of Economics, helping to promote investments for U.S.A. 2021 efficient vehicles." Mr. Gil is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u98	Madam President, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This is the third time we have been forced to bring the Renewed Automotive Plan to this House in this Legislature. The first time, as you know, we brought it in the form of a GNP which collected the demands of the sector and which you preferred to look elsewhere and vote against, even though it was obvious your need. The second time, because despite having rejected our proposal, you copied part of it and did it wrong, because you ruled out aid for B and C diesel and petrol cars, contrary to what the dealers and us in our proposal requested. And today we bring the subject back to you for the third time, because the Renewed Plan that you have presented in view of the data, we can say that it is not serving, that it is not being effective, that it is not working. And if the cod continues, I'm afraid we'll have to talk about this again a fourth time. They're like that bad student who's going to hang on to them over and over and the task is piled up. But, counselor, there is no Celaá law here that will allow you to pass through courses with outstanding subjects. Let's see the data: in May, before its Renovation Plan, 193 electrified vehicles were registered in Euskadi, compared to the 186 that did so in September after the Renovation Plan. Therefore, we can safely state that your Renovation Plan has not provided an incentive for the purchase of electrified vehicles. That is why I ask you, counselor, after the first months of your implementation, how do you rate the program of aid for investments in efficient and alternative vehicles PAVEA 2021?, does it seem to you a success?, does it seem to you a failure?, does it seem to you that we have to modify things?, does it seem to you that they have done very well and that we have to continue along the same line? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u99	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u100	Eskerrik asko president andrea. Mr Gil, the priority objective of the aid programme is to encourage the renewal of the mobile fleet of the Autonomous Community by facilitating the transfer to more efficient vehicles and alternative fuels. In other words, it is not renewal by renewal, but with the aim of deepening the energy transition and achieving less CO2 emissions. Hence the aid programme, with EUR 5 million, of course, only qualifies and works with electric, electrified, gas or A-rated vehicles. We are not going to enter those of B and C, it is not, of course, objective to renew the vehicles so that they are more efficient and with less emissions. Until... the program ends on 31 October 2011, and as of 11 October, that is, at 20 days, 986 applications had been received, 586 already paid, 119 resolved positively and 162 under study, which are likely to be positive. And the estimate of the committed budget is 1,754,000 euros, less than the five million euros, yes, and it is very different from the year 2020, it is true, but the requirements are exactly the same as those of 2020, exactly the same, we have not responded to your request or that of the concessionaires, because the objective from the Basque Energy Agency, contribute to the energy transition, and of course, to action against climate change, energy rating A. And I also have to tell you, I will point out to you why you behaved differently. The European Vehicle Consumption and Emission Approval Procedure was of course established for its entry into force in 2017. However, in the state there has been a... in some ways, as an extension until December 2020, but from this year onwards it has been strictly implemented. Then, those A-rated vehicles are less than those that existed in 2020, it is true, but it is no less true that they are sufficient and that there is a wide range of vehicles that meet these characteristics and can be purchased. That is the objective we have set ourselves, and of course you can share it or not, but the main objective, energy transition and less CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u102	Well, I'm sorry to have stayed in the mood to know if even the energy transition target for the counselor seems to you to be being met. But in any case, let's look at the data. In May, 2.92 % of all electrified vehicles in Spain were sold in Euskadi. In September, that figure dropped to 2.61. But one year ago in Euskadi, 3.29% of all electrified vehicles in Spain were registered. This shows a downward trend that this plan has not been able to mitigate, so while we can say that we are not standing still, the sad reality is that the others are moving quite faster than we are and we are falling behind. Electric vehicles we agree are the future, but diesel and gasoline vehicles are the present. They are the present of the more than 40,000 people who work in a sector composed of more than 300 companies that charge more than 18 billion a year. A sector to which the bandages of the Basque Government are doing much damage, to the point that due to the incompatibility of the aid to electric vehicles, between the Basque Renovation Plan and the State Moves Plan, the director of the EVE, Iñigo Ansola, has indicated that he will divert the aid applications to electric vehicles to the Moves Plan because they are aid of up to 7,000 euros and be more beneficial to the applicants of the aid. If we want to reduce emissions, that is the goal you have mentioned, the best way is to encourage the renewal of current vehicles, including traditional technologies, as a C-category vehicle is much less polluting... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... the best way is to encourage the renovation of today's vehicles, including traditional technologies, as a C-grade energy vehicle is much less polluting than any diesel of more than 10 years running through our streets. Don't you see it that way, Counselor? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u103	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u104	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Gil, as you said, we have not only financed electrified vehicles, but other types of vehicles, and now I will detail them. And bandages, exactly, none. The programme is exactly the same as 2020; that is what we are looking for. I think you'll share it or not, but what we're looking for is what we're looking for. What do we fund? Light, pure electric vehicles; light hybrid, plug-in or extended electric vehicles; light natural gas vehicles; light hydrogen vehicles; light LPG vehicles; petrol or diesel vehicles of category M1 with energy rating A; petrol or diesel vehicles of category N1, if less than 2,500 kg and greenhouse gas emissions below 114 grams of CO2 per kilometre, or those weighing more than 2,500 kg, with emissions below 184 grams, perfectly rated and rated. That's what we're doing. And the diversion, of course, to the Moves Plan, goes to the benefit of the citizens, of the people who can have the least resources, which can cost them the most. And we have therefore diverted these applications to the largest aid, so that gas, petrol and diesel vehicles can be financed through these programmes, but always with those characteristics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. fourteen points in theme list: "I'm asking questions about the systematic protection of the Patronarian Patronarian, of economic development, of EH gathering members of the Casanova Alonso Group." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u106	Hello. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mrs. Tapia. It is true that the most extreme consequences which the pandemine has left us have certainly been in the sanitary field. And the consequences of this kind are the worst, and even the sadest. But, even in the sooconomic area, he's been indactical, and in a number of economic sectors, most of all, he's incestified. Some of them have been admitted, some have been admitted, and, considering that they were connected with the measures of resistance to the pandemia, they have been admitted, and, well, without too much confession have been consumed. But in other cases, various measurements of corporations, various operations, various resolutions, are articulated, because these measures were not justified and made use of by the social aspect, justified and justified by the social condition of the firm, and had foundations for the reduction. And I've seen again that in the pandemy context, as when we're not pandemy, you're in a systematic position in front of these restrictions and all the riots of work. And we want to ask you again: is it a dogma for you that in all conflicts of labour the patrician is always right?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u107	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u108	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Casanova, from the Mâkong, and especially from the Economics Department of Economics, and Environmental industry, we will continue to do so, always hand to hand, by hand, but not only in order to respond to the changes which are being given at this moment. Considering, mostly, and directing to them small and middle companies, which are the ones who are really suffering most. Often, here, we speak only of great ones, and they echoes tremendously, but the small and middle ones are there, and these are our real daily helps. They are involved in great changes, and our jurisdictions, manufactures, technology, energy, activity, are endurance. That's them. But we always take attention to what we call innovation, to technology and technology. But, as I have said to Mr. Hernandez, in this case it is especially important to change people's management, these models of management, and the real influence of it. And if we don't consider this, the real transformation won't be given, because technology doesn't count, as you know, and you often mention it because we need people. And, from the point of view of our jurisdictions, we have to keep working on it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u110	Well, I'm glad to hear from you that you've been working hand-in-hand with companies. Last week, here, at the Office of Work and Enplex, a worker from ITTP told us that he's been the chief department of the Home Department who's had the most intimate contact with them since. In this case, the contact has not been hand-to-face, but the nose with the porridge or porridge, which must also be mentioned. Eta ITP da oso kasu esanguratsua. I have spoken before: it is a company that is in the eye of the hurricane for certain reasons, not only because of industrial conflicts, but because of the possibility of intervention by the government. ITP is a company where the social party has won, with yesterday's, five sentences. I used to say we don't have to prosecute. Well, if they can't prosecute, they can't strike, what do they have to say? Amen to layoffs? When in this case they have been given the reason on five occasions. That, in a company where they are interested in entering capital, does it not lead them, as part of a comprehensive industrial policy, which consists not only of R & D, but also of analysing the social role of companies and what business practices can be accepted or not, not lead them to raise their voices? Because it's not just ITP. In ITP there has been an irresponsible leadership, which has maintained with a certile attitude a conflict that has endangered the very survival of the company and has also destroyed the internal coexistence of the company. She's broken it. And when you used to mention human capital... In Tubacex the management has destroyed the company's coexistence, and you have said nothing. You guys have been looking the other way for eight months. Eight months. And looking elsewhere in this case is: the one who is silent gives, and nodding practices, absolutely, a bad business practice in Tubacex. And there are other cases... I don't see how much time I have left; it looks like he's standing still. [[Pause]] I don't want to abuse... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] I don't see how much time I have left. Looks like he's standing still. (Barreak) I don't want to abuse the technical error, but... He said there are other cases. In Petronor and Aernnova ERTEs have been applied, temporary restrictions of employment, which has been demonstrated – and I say demonstrated because I do not make a prior judgment, but a posteriori – that they were excessive. It has been empirically demonstrated, because the reality of the increase in the workload in these companies has shown that they were preventive ERTEs. I send people home just in case, in the meantime save me some money and then we'll see what happens. You can't play with people like that. Both in Petronor and Aernnova, the companies themselves are limiting the scope of these ERTEs. So we're talking about not all companies, not all entrepreneurs. But at certain points I ask you, if you accept as a working hypothesis that on the part of certain companies and certain entrepreneurs are carrying out bad practices that, as a government, are in the obligation, from an institutional position, but denounce and ask to be corrected. Because you've done it on other occasions in the past. You told Aernnova you can't close a plant here and then take it somewhere else. He told you. He's said it on many occasions. On the count of them all. And only when the attitude on the part of the company reaches the ground of what is humiliation. Por clot, we have to say: bad practices have been here from the company. They've been, and that's what you've got to say about some of the responsible corporations. And I'll mention what President of the Arabs said and the President Confebas said, accusing unions of lies and insults. And from here also I demand that they withdraw from these two people, recite and apologize with their insults, namely, the sectors that have offended them. And finally, I know it's been a bit more time, the workers are getting orphans by the way. We don't think he can act like a "M" or a political party. We don't even ask that. But when the fundamental rights are torn from the patronal in so obvious and crude a manner, we think that the Government has come to open its mouth and give it a word. And we've been waiting for you for a long time to do it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u111	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u112	Eskerrik asko, curry, andrea president. Mr. Otero, not just during crisis, we're always... Oh, yes, I'm sorry, I'm used to it. [[Barres]] .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Excuse me, Mr. Casanova. Not only in crisis, you know, it's always been important for us that companies should be with them when they're in difficulties, with corporations, management, and workers. And this department has always had a decision, except for violent behavior, we've always had all the interactions. And when I told Mr. Hernández before, there have been many meetings, and he who does not know or is not lying. And what we really do is not just work with the Department of Work and Emplegu because it really is there because there's jurisdiction when there's a confession. And it's because we're not in the power of another man, but it's a job we do together. We can't do each other separately. It's a job we have to do together. They're orphans? Really? You can use different paths. There is no, there is no negative response by the Government to any form of mediation, of joint work, of analysis, by both departments, each from within its competence, but, of course, in a perfectly coordinated work. And in this sense, on the part of the department that I run, with the representatives of workers and with the management of the company, we always put on the table three important actions, or three aspects in which we place special emphasis. In the need to deepen the dialogue, as we have said, because the only way to save labor problems is to talk and sit down and talk with a vocation to seek an agreement. In the need to explore new measures and all possible ways to ensure that, in the extreme case of having to proceed with an ERE, it is non-traumatic. I've always said it. And in making available by the Government all the instruments and all the measures, the last of them intermediation by Labour and Employment, so that that is a reality. And, Mr. Casanova, as one very important person in our party said, "he who shuts up, shuts up."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 16th point in the theme list: "Interression by the members of the United States of the United States, Carmelus Barrius Barroja, a member of the Cébanos, a member of the Medical Department, a deliberate plan of action which has been announced on first-rate attention." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u114	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, all of you again, counselor, counselor, ladies and gentlemen. Well, according to specialized health information, we recently saw that the Government of Spain and the autonomous communities had agreed – it was 15 days ago or so – to approve something very interesting, that is to say it caught our attention. A specific action plan on primary care before the end of the year. And this announced in the framework of meeting of primary care, challenges and opportunities where with the signing of a declaration that was approved by, as the media said, by majority. And analysis is important. This meeting of the Autonomous Communities and the Ministry of Health, also the Autonomous Cities, to talk about primary care. I think it's something important and to value it as such. And at the time we who saw that the health and health advisors had met at that primary care meeting in the Canary Islands, wanted to know what was agreed, what was talked about, what was decided. And in particular, what our counselor also agreed and committed in the name of Basque health. I say again, we are all talking at all times about strengthening primary care and this seems to be a vector, at least in that sense, at another level, not autonomous, but at an interterritorial level, where important measures and decisions are also taken. [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... at least in this sense, at another level, not autonomous, but at the interterritorial level where important measures and decisions are also taken. And especially because there was talk at this meeting of Primary Care, of two decisively important issues: the strengthening, as a concept, of Primary Care, in general terms, and also of what would have to be this inter-institutional coordination and, moreover, not only the inter-institutional or administrative one, but also with professional, scientific, social, political organizations. Indeed, those two issues are important there. And a deadline has been set, a deadline has been set or a deadline announced, which is before the end of this year to present a specific action plan on primary care. It is possible that – here will be the assessment, you will tell us something – it is possible that that time is short, to some it seems a long time and that the plan should already be in place with concrete proposals, but well, that is a debate that you will have or will have and that what will be good is that it will result in concrete measures to strengthen primary care. But, well, the key will be to strengthen primary care and do so in all possible areas. Indeed, the autonomous communities all know that they have full competence in health care, in primary care, but the reinforcement to me seemed to see that level, at the state level, the strengthening of assistance at that level, was also done within the Interterritorial Council and with that would see more possibilities to strengthen the aforementioned Primary Care in another area, in that interterritorial area as we mentioned. It is quite clear, and that we also saw in the specialized information, and also in view of that we looked at what had been said on the Ministry's page. The declaration was aimed at an integral approach to the most frequent health problems, clinical practice focused on the individual and the community, considering the social determinants of health, improvement of diagnostic resolution capacity, strengthening of the longitudinality of care, which would also take into account very important areas, professional growth, impulse of information systems, digitization, were talked about promoting innovation and research, adaptation and training of human resources, ensuring effectiveness, sustainability, quality of primary care. That is to say, basic elements of strengthening primary care, which we too often speak of in this House. He also said that the signatories are committed to aligning budgetary policy, there is no doubt that it is the fundamental element; normative development that makes it possible to achieve the objectives of the Action Plan; working specifically in the plenary of the Human Resources Commission of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, where we are also represented through the persons of the Department of Health of the Basque Government; in updating and adapting the specialized health training in Primary Health Care. Basic issues, very relevant issues, as I have said before, within the concepts we all talk about strengthening that assistance side. And through that statement, professional, social, scientific organizations were also urged to adhere to the statement, I suppose also in order to work together because they are essential for strengthening that attention. It was said that taking care of primary care and its integrative and preventive role is the best way to further improve and health care for citizens. It's obvious, it's clear, but, well, you have to get to work and you have to do it. It was also highlighted in the statement of More Palomas that teamwork and skills in Primary Care provide the best responses to health problems; improve the individual experience of care, ensure equity, contribute to preventing the disease, improve the efficiency of the National Health System, where we integrate, strengthen the culture of care, etc. In short, a resilient system capable of responding to the eventual future health crisis. In other words, that is the declaration, in fact, they are not concrete proposals, it is a declaration, and as such it must be taken because all this has to be translated into that plan of action I suppose into concrete measures. Also, logically, there was a recognition of Primary Care in Spain, to which we are a party and, of course, we have to reiterate that recognition of Primary Care also in Euskadi as one of the signs of identity of the National Health System, and of the Basque Health System indeed. And, of course, the mention of the impact of COVID-19 was also a key element in this key to strengthening primary care. I conclude, because these are very important or very interesting things. In this meeting our Health Adviser participated and, in this regard, in view of this work that needs to be done, because it is a work in which they will coordinate and collaborate, we ask Mrs Sagardui what are the purposes of the Basque Government in relation to her participation in the elaboration of the Action Plan on Primary Care announced by the Minister of Health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u115	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In answer, Mrs. Appledui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u116	Mr. President of the Parliament, members of the legislature, good morning, all of you. I wonder, Mr Barrio, what the Basque Government's aims are in relation to the Action Plan on Primary Care published by the Ministry of Health. In this respect, we intend to act on the same criteria as we have always maintained: first, to fulfil and enforce our competences in health care and health promotion. And second... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... first, meet and enforce our competencies in health care and health promotion. And second, to collaborate with the rest of the institutions in all matters that, respecting our competence, help to improve the health of the citizenry. It is true, on 30 September and 1 October we participated in the First Meeting of "Primary Care: Challenges and Opportunities", promoted by the Ministry of Health, within the Interterritorial Health Council. On its first day, the meeting consisted of a sharing of the vision that each community and autonomous city has about the problems and challenges facing primary care. In this sense, among the various subjects discussed, there is a common diagnosis: the shortage of medical professionals specialized in primary care and community health. There is no doubt that primary care is the basic link in the promotion and defence of health and health care. And yet, we have serious difficulties finding relief for the staff working on it. And the cause of this problem is not ascribed to this administration in Euskadi or to the rest of the Autonomous Communities, nor to the present Ministry of Health. It is a result of the fact that the planning of the calls for the formation of certain specialties did not, in its day, contemplate the generational relief that was coming with the retirement of many of our options. This situation is going to be prolonged for a while, and it is difficult to quantify. Although we're trying, don't doubt it. It is difficult to assess and act accordingly, because we do not know at what age people who reach the age of 65 will retire. You know well that, if you wish, you can move on with your careers for several more years. We also do not know whether those who are specialising in Euskadi and are from other communities will stay or go to other destinations at the end of their formation. And, to the contrary, people from Euskadi who are doing the specialty outside our community can return, once the same one has been completed. Those are the difficulties of proper planning in this regard. Then the second day. The second day was devoted entirely to reaching a consensus on a declaration, which I imagine you already know. We have not yet formally received the final wording. But I think it's known and published on the website of the Ministry of Health. And we abstained from that statement, a statement that recognizes what we have already been saying, that primary care remains one of the hallmarks of the health system's identity. It is recognized that COVID-19 has been a major obstacle to further action in this area. But it has also highlighted the fight against the co-virus, the COVID-19 and the role of primary care in this. Among other tasks, they are well aware that they have taken on the diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of mild and moderate cases of COVID-19 and have undoubtedly been key to the vaccination campaign. This statement notes the need to review the current primary care model, taking into account the experience accumulated over the past two decades and, uniquely, the experience experienced during the pandemic caused by COVID-19. The agreement, at its first point, plans to adopt an action plan before the end of the year 21, with the convergence of initiatives already launched by the autonomous communities, as well as new ones that may emerge in the process of drawing up the plan. The second includes the orientation to be given to the action plan, and cites the following issues: the comprehensive approach to the most frequent health problems, the clinical practice focused on the individual and the community, considering the social determinants of health, the improvement of diagnostic resolution capacity, the strengthening of the longitudinal nature of care, professional growth, the promotion of information systems and digitization, the promotion of innovation and research, the adaptation and training of human resources, ensuring the effectiveness, sustainability and quality of primary care. The third point in the statement is that budgetary policy and policy development should be adapted to enable the objectives of the plan to be achieved. The fourth point is a commitment to work specifically on the implementation, updating and adaptation of specialized health training for primary care. And the fifth, indeed, that you have mentioned, invites professional organizations, but at that point, scientists, social and political, to adhere to the declaration. Euskadi abstained in the vote on the statement, as I mentioned earlier. And the reason is the same one that has led us to abstain during the last few months in other votes that have taken place within the Inter-Territorial Council: the intrusion into matters that we consider to be our exclusive competence. Euskadi has experience in health management in primary care and many good practices to provide in any forum in which our collaboration or participation is requested. In this regard, have no doubt. We always collaborate, and we'll keep doing it. We share the reflection on the importance of primary care, on ongoing evaluation and renewal, on the challenges we face. And we'll share our experience. What we cannot share is that the action plan falls into areas that fall within our exclusive competence. And I will quote them: clinical practice, diagnostic resolution capacity, professional growth, information and digitisation systems, promotion of innovation and research, adaptation and training of human resources, budgetary commitments. All this falls within the scope of our competence. And it is Euskadi who is responsible for developing. We do not deny collaboration and participation, but always in the respect of our responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u117	Thank you, Apple... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...and participation, but always in the respect of our responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u119	Thank you, Madam President, thank you, Madam Counsellor, for the explanations and for the information on what that meeting was about, of which we had partial information through the media. But it gives me a bit of... I don't know if to say sorry, because the abstentionist attitude, understand me, when we speak in this case of strengthening primary care, we have to focus it as a priority, an essential priority of our health system and we have to do it within the framework in which we also have areas of collaboration or interaction, the Interterritorial Council, and that possibly draws attention because there seems to be a certain distrust, distrust in those objectives. You have read the objectives, I have also seen where I was going before, and I suppose that, like us, the Basque Country, in our competences, the other autonomous communities have the same in this matter and I suppose that there will be a possibility of orchestrating, to carry, in this case because the batta would belong to the Ministry of Health, but a common action that did not clash with the competences of the Autonomous Communities, but that did strengthen different supraterritorial or interterritorial areas, that would strengthen the areas of primary care. It is quite clear that it will be within that framework and in that plan where you can overcome the limitations or shortcomings that you have shown and that they are there in relation to the shortage of professionals and the need for new professionals, with the aspect of retirement, of destinations, well, because it is a matter that is there and that we can talk about that. That is to say, that it is the Action Plan that facilitates actions, not hindering the actions themselves, of the actions that you have to manage and have to lead in the Department of Health and in relation to the strengthening of primary care, which we have also talked about here, is also a parliamentary mandate. Of course it is a priority of the Government and that is there, but if this can be done with other synergies that depend on the scope and the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System in which you also participate and integrate with an attitude that I see quite abstaining, but good, but in any case, to the extent that we apply all our resources and all our instruments to strengthen primary care I believe that we have to move more equally in the area of trust than of distrust, and that is why I would like to know that... because there will be subjects in which we can act together, that is to say that they are not only private, or that they are, but that they are reinforced by joint actions also on this issue. I would like to know if you are going to... despite the abstention attitude in relation to the Action Plan announced by the Minister, if you are going to contribute, if you are going to send to the working groups people or professionals or managers of Osakidetza or of Public Health to build that Action Plan, or to talk also about the issues that see negative or see that they oppose our... the development of our competences, that is, whether your department is going to be proactive, whether you will participate in the working groups. We have discussed earlier that the most important working group or at least the most important area will be the plenary of the Human Resources Commission of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System precisely on these issues of specialized health training, then will they participate? I suppose this attitude will make you actively participate in proposals, because if there is a problem, it seems that this area will be where we can develop and overcome those difficulties. I mean, I... It is clear that if there is that supra-Community area of strengthening primary care and we can benefit from some measure we will have to support it. We, well, after the interpellation and listening to you in the reply, believe that we will have to put forward a motion precisely to support the joint work within the Inter-Territorial Council in strengthening primary care, but in any case, we are awaiting your second intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u120	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In answer, Mrs. Appledui is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u121	Mr Barrio, I do not think you have understood me in my first speech that the reflection of primary care is clear that we agree and clear that we can talk, but the executive approach, of course, what we defend is our competence, which is what we did with that abstention, and we participated in the day, as I have already explained to you. Please note, moreover, that we have taken part in the reflection on primary care and have shared it with you in this Parliament, because, in fact, Euskadi has begun this path, even with some completed stages, which we have no objection to share. First, as a demonstration of this willingness to collaborate and exchange experiences, we are already starting with the elaboration of the strategic framework document for primary and community care adopted on April 19, 2019 within the Inter-Territorial Health Council and that in many of your writings you will be able to identify the Euskadi primary care strategy. Secondly, according to the exercise of our competence and responsibility in this area, we have adopted a strategy for primary care aimed at responding to the challenges it referred to. As I say, we have our own, and in addition we have started it, which I also remind you, because I am sure you know it, it is summarized in 7 lines and 35 concrete actions, all of which have been implemented. The strategic lines... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... which, moreover, I remind you, because I am sure you know it, is summarized in 7 lines and 35 concrete actions, all implemented. The strategic lines are: revaluing the function and role of primary care, adapting the structure of primary care teams to demographic and epidemiological challenges, optimizing the organization and management of primary care teams, deepening the deployment of the nursing profile, avoiding the care gap in the generational relief of family medicine, consolidating the model of pediatric care in primary care, implementing in primary care the linguistic normalization and gender equality plans. And I will point out only the most remarkable actions that, as I say, are underway: One, expand the staff of Family Medicine and Nursing in primary care centers with greater care load and nursing reinforcement in some quotas linked to pediatrics. Continue to increase investment for the modernization of centres and the updating of technological systems. This past year we have opened three health centres in Bilbao, Donostia and Murgia. Renovate facilities, medical equipment and computer systems; we have spent 14 million this year. De-bureaucratize the work of medical and nursing staff so that they can devote as much time as possible to care for patients. Open and homogenize the portfolio of diagnostic tests that may be requested by primary care medical staff, in order to avoid travelling to the hospital to request tests by patients, as well as to make doctors and family doctors more resolutive. Modify the schedule model to streamline the number of patients visited per day and to reduce delays. Strengthen the role of nursing with the implementation of nursing consultations both at the health center and at home or community care, to guide patients in mild processes, helping to reduce delays. Strengthen primary care by integrating physiotherapy into your service portfolio. This is our reality, Mr. Barrio. This is what we are already doing in Primary Care, not just reflecting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interregation by Maria Garde Ramirez, a member of the U.S.C.S.C.S.Escal Autonomia. " Mrs Garde, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u123	Thank you. Good noon, everyone. And specials, good noon, chief of the cider. And thank you for being here today because we wanted to propose this interference to you at the previous check meeting, but it wasn't possible because of the agenda, I think. So, in case of delay, we think it's the time for once to speak again about mental health. And again, because, a few months ago, in June, before the beginning of summer, EH Collecte made a certain proposal to begin the affair and challenge of mental health on the table, which is the foundation of seeking for common startings, but we did not make a bargain. The medical department, your department, was asking us to make a deep and broad diagnosis of how we've been able to measure and know the effect we've been through. You can identify that well, measure it, check it out in collective. Then, so that the health system and health networks can properly rearrange and strengthen them. The result of Pandemia is that there has been an incenditure in mental health, and is not questioned. And it's not just EH Collector, the mental health professionals have warned us over and over again, there's a lot of study around it. We know that many sectors have suffered anguish and suffering and have multiplied the degrees of anxiety, fear, impatience, and depression which they endured. And here, in particular, we must speak of children, teenagers, and young men in very serious cases, and of young women among them. And again I say, we do not say it, but it has also been expressed by the World of Health, and it gives a clue: The 4% anxiety, depression, and trauma in the world's population has been stressed after the pandemois, and we are part of this world. Eta horren aurrean ezin dugu ez ikusiarena egin, is that, sheath, ezinezkoa da. Ze, begira: "Mental health problems in an identified and precarious youth"; "Anorexia and bulimia increase as never before after the pandemic"; "Pandemic increases by 50% adolescents hospitalized for mental health"; "The wave of anorexia and suicide attempts among adolescents continue to increase"; "Psychiatrists and judges warn of the rise of suicide attempts by minors in Euskadi"; "Covid triggers eating disorders in Gipuzkoa"; "Teens touched..." i.e., add and follow. And it's true, now he's showing up and insisting, but our mental health needs are long past. But in front of all this, we said, there was an impact, it was real, it was serious, let's just go see what happened, and then take the right measures. Very logical to us, but you don't. The sects that support the government, with the consent of the Medical Department, (... We were told, that you rejected the proposal by saying that the bureau has all the exams to be done already, that you have all the information, and moreover that you carefully attend to the mental health of the people. And I'm sorry, but this premise is on the basis and (... ) That's wrong. Yeah. Because you know better than we do that Osaderie doesn't treat people's mental health as a whole. Es que, at the moment, it's impossible on the system, because it's not planned for that, not planned. And in this we have been taught by pandemics, because it has revealed some imperfections in the health system, and some weakness in the mental health network. We all know historically that mental health in the world of health has been the least part of the poor or important, attention, and resource. Orduan, Osakidetzak eta osasun mentalko saretan egun gaixotasun mentalak, buruko gaixotasunak artatzen dira, bathe ez da osasun modu integralanean artatzen. Today in Osakidetza and in the mental health network mental diseases and mental disorders are attended, but the mental health of the citizenry is not reached in an integral way and understood as the general well-being of an individual capable of facing the normal pressures of life. And this is the WHO definition of mental health. From well-being, and not understanding only as the absence of disease. And that is understood by taking it a little into reality with an example, because we all understand that if I suffer a fall, I fall, a break... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ...as the absence of disease. And that is understood by taking it a little into reality with an example, because we all understand that if I suffer a fall, I fall, a break, a sprain, whatever, I will approach my outpatient clinic or the CAP or emergencies, depending on the severity of my wounds and there they will attend to me. The system must attend to when I have a specific physical need, even if I suffer from a longer-distance disease or chronic disease. But what if at a point in time for the comings and goings of life, for a loss, for a duel, for a complicated situation at the relational, labor or equitable level? What if I need emotional punctual support? Because I feel bad animally, because I have had one or several anxiety crises, because I feel sad and this does not allow me to develop my life with normality and fullness. What if I feel distress or stress, if this gets longer in time and I don't have enough mechanisms to deal with it? Well, I'm sure I'll get close to my clinic. And there I would realize that my doctor, my doctor, my reference nurse has little time to attend to me, between five and ten minutes on average depending on the center. And that can be said by any Osakidetza administrator who is currently dating in Primary Care. Even to evaluate the twist of an ankle, it's worth us, but to do an in-depth analysis of how an emotional patient is, we need more time. And I don't doubt, uh, that Osakidetza professionals don't dedicate to every patient all the time they need, generating delays in the agenda or I don't know how they get caught, but they do. But let him go, too, I take advantage, ahead of us our most sincere recognition of his work with and without a pandemic. But we start out that they don't have enough time to take care of people and that they're not going to see me as a mental health professional and they're probably offering me some kind of medicine and tell me, well, we're going to give you this, go home, try, well, take it if you have a moment of need and if you see that the situation is still like this, come back and we'll value you and we'll get you, in their case, to a mental health center. If it happens, because it doesn't always happen and if it happens, there will be a professional, a mental health professional. But, well, it also happens that many of primary health consultations to mental health then return to primary. And there I will realize that the system can't give me a therapy, a few sessions continued at this time when I have needed professional help, professional support. And in the end, as I need it, and if I can afford it, I will end up in a private cabinet, if I can afford it, let me see, the private network is also saturated with the impact of the pandemic. So, basically this is the reality, and there's a reality, and it's that we don't get to attend to mental health as we do to the rest of the health spectrum. And, considering all this, the need of structure, of what has happened in the pandemae, of the professionals and researchers in the field, the planning of the world's health organization, and so on, is clearly the centre of the global health diary. We must make bold measures to reorganize the system and challenge the mental health. The question, then, or the interpenetration of the present day, the Chief of Apples, would be as follows: What are you ready to do to give a place, importance, and resources to mental health? "Hasta dónde estás dispusta a illegar, beginninga donde esta dispuesta alegar, qué esta dispusta a hacer, para danle a la mental e lugarta, los fasci, impportia que se mece la mees la repuesta?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u124	Thank you, Mrs Garde. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u125	Good day again, Mr. President of the Parliament. In the first place, I would like to explain some concepts quoted in justification of the explanation. The mental health or the emotional state is different concepts, and therefore, in regard to the health care of health, it may appear as if they were similar things, and demand similar attention, but it must be examined, because it is not so. It's not that way, and I'm clearly trying to separate the psychological trastornos from emotional discomfort, mental illness and discomfort. Psychiatric Trastornos are diseases that may have a great effect on the quality of persons and their families in the life of environments. The diagnosis and attention of these diseases require the most personal and highly specific resources which are offered by the Social Network in Socination. It is clear, that the pomps, the confiscations, the presence of attention, and the diminution of activity in various resources, have been affected by the welfare of these persons. In the midst of the community, children, teenage, and elderly, the case of middle and high cases of anxiety has increased, especially in the area of children and young men. But, Mental Health Network, and Osarhood, is answering these situations. Emotional discomfort caused by activity control and mobility measures during the pandemic in many people cannot be considered in the same way. The expression of this malaise has resulted in most situations, either personally or through the family and social networks themselves, it does not have to be systematically collected by the health system. Society is made up of people and all people have powerful adaptive mechanisms to deal with the adversity to which we are subjected in different vital situations related to traumatic or loss experiences. In the face of adversity there are usual psychological response mechanisms, especially in our culture, which are related to social and family networks in which we can find if not solution, yes relief to psychological discomfort associated with the adverse experience. If these response elements fail, there is always coverage of the health system through primary care or when it is required even in mental health networks, in which we will find attention to these problems... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... through primary care or when required even in mental health networks, in which we will find attention to these problems. Without underestimating the impact that the pandemic has had on its most traumatic elements, such as confinement, unintended loneliness, stress and the economic impact of the population, in general, even more so, on those groups, such as children and older persons, who have less capacity to adapt and assume what they have experienced, it should also be noted that, in general terms, the adaptive capacity of society has been high, and that the resources put in by public services for the support and management of this discomfort have been constant. In the justification of the explanation, E.H. collect mentions the other proposal, which is predetermined. And you've made it yourself in your speech. In your own words, the sects that support the Government refused to study the mental health of society with the consent of the Medical Department. What was extraordinary and will be (... ) The structure of modern mental health to suit, strengthen, and respond to new health needs. I'd like to remind you that the parties that protect you represent a vast majority of Basque society, and that they have a criteria for the problems that affect the mental health of the people, and how to get on with them. And that the Commission of the Legislator was this: The Basque Congress calls for the Dream of Decorations of mental health services for Osamenals to be particularly attentive to the emotional consequences of the average and length of the population, and especially to ensure the attention of mental health networks. To this end, as usual, they must be considered as the experience and experience of the professionals, experts, agents, and associations, who work in the area of the mental health of Euchara. And this is exactly what we have done and what we are doing. Not only by this order, but by pandemy, because we have followed the wants of the citizens from the Medical Department, designing new means and services and making them work. We have a very close example showing the reality of this assertion. Last Wednesday, they started to work on the installations of the New Psychiatric Hospital for Hosa in the House of Commons, children and teenage kids. The new center in the Bilbo Saalegi Square has become an investment of 2500,000 euros, and has 15 squares in it. This day's hospital is an ambulance resource of intense intensity. And children and teenagers who have serious mental health problems will serve to treat us, avoiding admission to the hospital, restoring a shorter stay, and making it easier to stay in the usual environment, making it easier for them to go back to normal life, that's what they're all going to do. This is an indication of the initiative. But this shows, and it does not happen from one day to another, that it shows that we know what it was, and that we give the means, and give answers to the wants of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs Garde, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u127	First of all, I want to thank you, Chief of Applery, for the explanation I have given you. And yes, it's true, through the pandema and now things are done. We never said they didn't do it, and we don't say they don't do it. Para nada anyway. And, you mention, the previous week, President Urkullu gave it to a new hospital in the City of San Francisco in the City of Bilbo, where children and young men are in mental health. Yes, but that's the first thing to do with such characters as this in Biscaia. And it was long ago received and accepted in budgets. And so, before the pandemy, the needs were also incestrated. Oraindik Gipuzkoan ez dago horrelakorik. Eta eremuko profesionalik ettenbean eskatzen dituzte horrelako egiturak. Eta zuen départamentuetik helarazitako informetan ere hala exactaten da. (...) no date dugu jaso, but, well, I understand that it is in the context of pandemic, because it is the review of the situation of psychiatric care to children and adolescents, in pandemic, yes, and what actions have developed. But it is said that the measures taken have been overwhelmed by the increase in the number of cases. And other approaches are needed. Surely, this situation is structural, it is said, and the covid pandemic has acted as a trigger. And here, in this report, this day-to-day hospital and the missing ones appear. In short, structures were lacking before the pandemic. The pandemic has overtaken us. We didn't have the resources to handle all this. The measures taken have not been sufficient. The report says so. Moreover, the situation is structural and requires structural measures. And it is good and proper for us to open new structures in the middle of mental health, and especially with the young. That's good. But further on, we must make different decisions and measures. And that's what you're talking about, and that's not what you're answering. To change the paradigm and treat the mental health as a whole and in an integrated way, because we don't understand mental health in the same way. We don't need to take care of people when they're in trouble. The mental health goes beyond. It's the mental welfare that we're taking care of. And of course we all have tools, but sometimes we don't have them. And everybody doesn't have them. We have to take care of that. And, look, that a few days ago we read in the press that a team of professionals from the mental health network of Gipuzkoa has conducted a study about suicide in the province. And two things that came out of this study, which are relevant to me. The first, that most of those people who commit suicide, eight out of 10, go to Osakidetza beforehand. In other words, people who are suffering seek professional help in the system. They're coming to us, looking for help. That means that we have a very large window of opportunity to improve our strategy of care and suicide prevention. And the second is that most of those people were approaching primary care. There's the key, in primary care. And, aside from this study, suicides if we talk about mental health care, mental health in primary care, two things, between 85 and 90% of the consultations that reach the mental health network come from primary care. I understand that the other 10-15 % comes from emergencies. And between 40% and 50% of primary interventions have to do with the mental health of the citizenry. That's where we have... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ...comes from the emergency room. And between 40% and 50% of primary interventions have to do with the mental health of the citizenry. That's where we have to focus and put resources, because virtually all the emotional discomfort, and beyond what we can't manage for ourselves and who does need professional support, goes from first to primary care. That's where you do the fundamental screening to then get to Mental Health. It's the natural proximity site to which we'd all approach. But, of course, we have said it before, the primary one – and it has been talked about in the previous debate, in the previous speech – the fundamental pillar of our system and entry into the system, is overflowing as it is, with attentions of five and ten minutes. And it's a shame because with more professionals – and I'm talking about new teams in primary care, and not about getting mental health teams and getting them to primary, no, from new teams in primary mental health – we could do endless things: more prevention and promotion of mental health; group therapies, for example, to deal with those anxieties and stress and depressions that are the most prevalent casuistics in the population and that if we took care of that we would also get to other structures; working in a network with educational centers, with basic social services. All this will also be indispensable to surpass the public taboos and stigmas, to tell the public that when you have need of your health centre or mental diseases, and to treat them with normal care. And all this must be done, and with a particular look at the basest collectives: Sociably low incomes, already mental illnesses, elderly persons, women, people of LGTBI+ collective, children, teenagers, young ones in succession. And that requires material, professional, economic resources. Big ones too. And brave measurements. And this interpelation is about it. Again, are you ready for that, Chief of Apples?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u128	Thank you, Mrs Garde. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u129	Mrs Garde, thank you for your words, but I have to tell you that reality is beyond the press headlines and that it's someone else, and that's why you're talking about suicides. That's where you mentioned an investigation, but we've been working with Osa. It's very well known, and not only for that, but we have it, that we have, therefore, in the exercise of a strategy of their own. Which ones? The ones you say are the things we do. And everything doesn't get repaired by saying "more resources and more resources." That's the only thing I've heard, and it's not. And mental health does not improve on stigmatizing. And even if we stigmatize emotional discomfort, we won't help anything. What we must do is that which has been socialized and answered as a society. As I said before, the reality of the need for psychiatric attention is clear that the pandemics have been affected. How could you not? Why shouldn't the pandemics be? But in every case, not only in all the fields of our life. And our experience and knowledge acquired leads us to open, as I say, the means we have before mentioned, which do not spring from one day to another, and which, even in pandemia, we have advanced. A day's hospital leads us to cover a space which will facilitate the patient's presence in his usual environment, and at the same time to facilitate the intensive treatment. That's the way we're supposed to do it. And that's why we should call mental health, mental health, and emotional health emotional health. And besides, this is not the only resource, as you have mentioned. We have one and a few months ago we opened a new one at the Aete Donostian. Moreover, we have analyzed the works of another resource of the Bizkaia Mental Health Network aimed at providing mental health assistance to adolescents who suffer from severe mental disorders or with high psychopathological and social risk in a community context, avoiding hospitalizations. And these are true. Yes, Mrs Garde, if it's from Donostia. In this case, in the last one I tell you that we are about to open in Bizkaia, the objectives are, among other things, to intervene more intensively on the psychopathology of adolescents to achieve their reintegration into the school and social environment. Early detection and intervention in cases of school absenteeism. Provide teaching support, crisis management and coordination with educational and social services to maintain continuity of care. All those things you mentioned are here and they're realities. Hospital resources. Psychiatrists have been incorporated for high resolution in child and youth care in the emergency rooms of the Hospital of Donostia and Basurto. And the incorporation of this figure is being managed also in the emergencies of the Hospitals of Santiago, Txagorritxu and Cruces. Egy yes, ez ezetzik esan. Hauek egia will say. And without leaving the hospital, the creation of two day hospitals linked to the Galdakao Hospital for adolescents is being managed. One related to eating behavior disorders and another for young people with addictions. What is hidden is that, as is the case in primary care, and you know it, we have problems with psychiatric professionals, especially those with child psychiatry, due to the lack of trained professionals. But don't tell me yes, because that doesn't fit into Osakidetza's will, and I explained it earlier, but the lack of foresight that can't exactly blame this department or this government when it comes to creating professionals. Mrs Garde, don't mess with things like that, don't get old. And finally, since last year, an emotional support plan has been running for patients, family members and professionals as a result of the covid. The programme envisages different levels of action: support for workers who aim to prevent and respond to the effects of stress and manage the emotional burden of their work in the current situation; support for patients themselves and families of hospitalized patients; and support for citizens in general through various instruments, including telematics. And finally, it has also been developed, in coordination with primary care, in coordination with primary care, with mental health centres and with hospital services, follow-up activities for the sick and the mentally ill at home. I think I've given them word for word... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... and with hospital services, follow-up activities for the sick and the mentally ill at home. I think I have answered in words those wants you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The 18th point in the subject list: "Interlation of Jule's Arzuga Gumunius, the Cog of the Union, made to the Chief of Equality, Justice, and Society, the Spanish Government had been in a dirty war about the complication." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u131	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. "We lived thinking it was ETA, until the trial involving PSOE politicians came out. There are victims of first, second and third." Ez dira nire hitzak, Artolazabal andrea, dira Concha Moralesen hitzak, the mother of José Antonio Cardosa Morales. I don't know, don't you think these words, the pain these words convey, deserved an early answer? There are victims of first, second and third, and I agree with this assessment. It's four-and-twenty o'clock in the afternoon of September, 1989, a young postman, José Antonio Cardosa Morales, has written a letter in the mail of the patriotic millionaire on the left flank of Ildefoso Salazar. It's blown up and killed the postman. The Salazar had obtained one of the few sentences of torture against a Civil Guard, Lieutenant Fidel del Hoyo Cpeda Inchaurdo. That bomb was the revenge for the torturers. The lieutenant was promoted to command captain and captain because Enrique Rodríguez belonged to Galindo. In recent times, Emilio Alonso Manglano, the head of the Spanish spies has been made public documentation. According to this, the bombing of José Louis Corcue, a Minister of PSOE, is behind these mails, his responsibility is, he's in charge, and has been sent through the Civil Guard of the Inchourdi. Manglanok honako hau sontzun du: "What happens is clear, you have to ignore it. And even if your conscience upsets you, you have to defend the state, you have to defend the institution." In those months, at least, they sent three similar packages to the lawyer Iruin, aldermen of Karmen Ege, and Kike Zuz, to the Councilmen of Azpicus HB. The letter has been detected at Correus' service, it has come up to Zuru, to Correus, to find out what is going on, and the edge does not allow it to approach him and throw him back without any explanation. Cardosaren heriotza ETAri leporatu ahal izaziko, bidalitako bonba gutun horiek ezin will say militant beasts of abertzalea hellu, dena estali nahi dellako. Because, precisely, that's going to be the official version. The government of the PSOE, the government of González, that of Mr Equis, that of the LAG, at that time said that the letters bomb have the stamp of ETA, and precisely Corcuera these days has held on and has relied on that lie so as not to assume any kind of responsibility. The PSE here has also raised a false flag saying that it will be a manipulative campaign of HB, giving, precisely, responsibility or putting responsibility for its objectives. And the PNV kept quiet. One: What is the truth? "We lived thinking it had been ETA," Concha Morales, Joxean Cardosaren loves. Doesn't this family really deserve it? It may be in the papers, and from time to time it is in those documents, which are still classified under a law of Frankish official secrets. For those victims to know the truth is crucial, it is very important, and when a ray of light emerges we must welcome it, we must give it faith, we must give it credibility and visibility, because it is little to what these victims continue to cling to. And it is the public institution that must play this role, what happens is that until now, at least, the institution has been silent. The victims, in this case, I am afraid that they have met with a slogan of silence, a silence that has been thundering, a silence that has been painful in the face of acts of terrorism that have been practiced, have been driven, have been hidden with public funds from public structures. Your partner in government, Mrs Artolazabal, has spoken in this House saying that you will condemn everything, including your own minister, if it is proved. And this parole is the one that makes the difference, because that's the problem. As Jon Mirena Landa said, all evidence has been erased by a self-covering state. The last fact of self-covering has been to avoid the appearance of Corcuera and Marlaska in Congress to explain these facts. If it is proved, it is said, as long as every door is closed to any initiative to be able to prove it. That's the hypocrisy we're facing. Two: What did justice do? "Salió sleeping del juicio que ilica a pollicos del PSOE." Again, Concha Morales, Joxean Cardos' mother's words. Judge Garçon opened the instruction and opened it and closed it. If it had been, it would certainly not have been so quickly closed. Justice did nothing. This family has received nothing from justice. And there's something happening over and over again. We spent the last week in Zinsexit's activities, and we saw the documentary of Michael Openaz. And in it, his sister Thenossa said that he yielded to the attainment of justice, that he insisted on justice, by receiving an answer, that he insists at all accusations against justice. They do not expect justice, and they know what has happened; they know where Michael is, and they know where Michael is who murdered him; Three: what are we doing for the attention of these victims? "Hay víctimas de primera, de secunda y de tercera." Again, Joseph Cardos' mother... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... To the attention of these victims. "There are first, second and third victims." Berrio, José Cardosaren amak esaten du. Because I mentioned Intxaurrondo, yes, and because it has been, like so many other quarters and police stations, a center in which the celebration of the Day of Hispanicity has been practiced on October 12, recently, and where tribute and praise has been paid to the Civil Guard for its services rendered. In Sansomendi, the government's own delegate, Denis Itxaso, congratulated the Civil Guard for its commitment, loyalty and service, and thanked each and every one of the agents for the excellent work done in those difficult times. He did not specify whether he also included the work done when torture was practised – 4,116 cases, according to reports from his own Government – whether his commitment and service consisted of extrajudicial execution of Basque citizens by means of the bathtub – Mikel Zabalza –, by means of the live lime – today 38th anniversary of the disappearance of Lasa and Zabala – or with bomb packages, as in the case of Josean Cardosa. No self-criticism by the government delegate. And if he mentioned the unrighteousness, it was definitely someone else's. Right here, in this very Parliament, it was said that these were indeed honour days and the Civil Guard deserved it, and they deserved to be treated as heroes, as winners, because in front of them are the vanquished ones, all those victims who still have to face an unbreakable wall to get an apex of truth, of justice, of reparation. Victims of the State have denounced the sense of humiliation that these tributes bring to them, which, in their own words, constitute the exaltation of the violence that violated our human rights. Pain and humiliation. State casualties on the 12th of October. Two victims: Michael Egibar, tortured, and the Pilar Staller, who had killed his father, said: "These homages are the apology of violence which violated human rights. They are allowed to be allowed to do so, and they are told that they have a perfect immunity in their actions. We must not forget that the greatest part of those who exercised this violence are still punished. And these few were punished, since they were received by honor." Biktima batzuk horrella pentsatzen due, Artolazabal andrea, Statutuk biktimak direnak. Eta nik jakin nahi due she has to iruditzen zaizu. If these annual events are a contribution to coexistence in this country. If you also welcome the feelings of these victims and echoes their pain. "Vavimos pensando que hudea sido and... "No one admitted the truth, "hasta que sali que lo del juiciio que ichakiba a los pollíticos del PSE." This trial was taken away. No, they didn't get justice at all. "Hay víctimas de primera... "and those who receive justice, de secunda... "who attain the truth, y de tercera... "Oh, the people who've got their attention. The only true and true thing here is Jose Antonio Cardos' mother.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u132	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u133	The chief physician, the chief physician, the members of the legislature, all good days. Thank you for your question, señor Azuga. Beyond the information published by a state media, we do not know any new details about these revelations. What I can tell you is that these published accusations are very serious. As has been shown in the media, I have no doubt but to demand an inquiry into the possible cases of the bombings sent from the structures of the state. As reflected in the media, it is necessary, and I have stated, to request an investigation to clarify these possible cases of letters of bomb sent from State structures. It's fun and it's sound and strong. Don't hesitate. It is essential to investigate such cases in order to strengthen democracy. So many decades later the official truth and the real truth have very little to do with cases such as, among others, the murder of Mikel Zabalza or the bloody attack on Aldama bar in Alonsotegi. To... Aldana, I'm sorry. To further legitimize democracy, lifting the veil of official secrets about these actions allegedly exercised by the State remains necessary despite the many years that have passed. Declassifying these files is not in our hands, but I assure you that we will do everything possible politically and institutionally to seek the truth and, if necessary, to recognize as victims of terrible and unjust human rights violations to victims such as Mikel Zabalza or José Antonio Cardosa, the young postman, as you said, of Renteria, who already appeared in our databases as a victim of the LAG. And we will do so from professional rigour and independence, through the work of the Evaluation Commission, which is implementing the law passed by this Parliament that recognizes those popularly known as victims of police abuse. Trying to cover up these serious human rights violations is, in my view, a serious mistake. To advance in coexistence, courage and self-criticism are essential. And when necessary, we will continue to do so from a proactive search for support for the families of these victims. We've already done it and we're going to continue to do it with these and all the victims. Before, now, and we will always continue to condemn all violence. Already in our municipal portraits among the income records appears the murder of José Antonio Cardosa Morales. Along with features of his life, this portrait describes him as dead by extreme right or uncontrolled groups. His municipal portrait recalls that already in 1996 Luis... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... this portrait describes him as dead by extreme right or uncontrolled groups. His municipal portrait recalls that already in 1996 Luis Roldán accused the Ministry of the Interior of sending letters bomb to militants of the left abertzale. The same portrait echoes the anguish of your mother, Concha Morales, as you rightly said, Mr Arzuaga. (...) real, collected in these portraits, unfortunately so far away from the official truth. Utz exitedzu gure jarrera testteunguruan jarzen. Udaberri 2024 bizikidetzarako eta Giza Eskubideetarako eta Aniztasunerako Plana da gure bilbide orria. And let me put into context our position, the Udaberri 2024 Plan, Plan for Coexistence, Human Rights and Diversity, is our road map, and this sheet says textually: "The end of ETA opened up a new time, a new scenario, a new challenge, coexistence in plurality and diversity. A new challenge that we face starting from our reality today and which requires us to deal decisively with still pending and ongoing subjects. These include, in particular, the legal, institutional, social and moral recognition of victims, of all victims, both those caused by ETA terrorism, and of victims of other human rights violations and other unjust sufferings produced in a context of politically motivated violence." And the Basque Government's plan also ensures that "the violation of rights and freedoms and the use of violence for political purposes should end with an ethical, political and democratic self-criticism because it was unjust, radically unjust". And in relation to the victims, the victims of any violation of rights, I stress the following: "We place the victims as a fundamental pillar of the Basque agenda for coexistence. His gaze must be our gaze, that of all the victims, the victims of ETA unjustly victimized by the irrational use of terrorist violence for decades for political purposes, and also the victims of other extreme right-wing terrorist organizations such as the LAG, the Basque Spanish Battalion or the illegitimate use of violence by persons linked to State apparatuses. All are victims without equalization, without compensation, without exclusions. All victims without distinction deserve truth, memory, recognition, reparation and justice." And a fourth and final statement of the Plan makes it clear: "The rule of law is legitimized to deal with terrorist crimes without prejudice to the preservation and guarantee of fundamental human rights and basic rights and freedoms." This is our road map for this legislature, Mr Arzuaga, and you know that this government's action on reparation for victims of human rights violations has been developing for many years. Examples of this line of work are memory and reparation notebooks on unsolved attacks from a judicial or police point of view. Also our hard work, as I said, on the Commission for the Assessment of Victims of Other Human Rights Violations. The Basque Government and most of the groups in this House understand that these cases revealed in the alleged recordings of the Cesid, Antonio Asunción, would fit into this law approved by the Basque Parliament. And all this in coherence with the lines of action of our department, which I took to this very House when I first appeared in this legislature. People are the basis of our policies, all people, all victims, and in this case, they are a priority, all victims I repeat, without equidistance, without equality, without parallels, but without exclusions from the firm conviction that we have neither closed nor closed our eyes to any violation of rights. Here too, we consider it necessary to apply the principles of justice, recognition, memory and truth. In this case, too, it is necessary to make efforts to get closer to the personal and human dimension of each of the victims, because from truth and justice we will be able to strengthen democracy better. Faced with events that are colliding with the pillars of democracy, it is necessary to investigate and impart justice, and it is that from recognition we can build a society consistent with the values and principles that a just and democratic society requires, because we need a plural and rigorous memory to build a common future. A memory that serves not to fall into the future in the same mistakes of the past. A useful memory for future generations, because from the truth we can advance in a constructive and positive coexistence. The position of this government is clear, true, justice and confession. These are the three principal principles: Truth, justice, and acceptance are principles applied to all the watering of rights. Of course, with the potential and serious rights you're talking about. True, always justice and confession. The position of this Government is therefore clear, true, justice and recognition, and these are the three main principles: truth, justice and recognition, principles applied to all violations of rights, of course also to potential and serious violations of rights such as those you allude to in your inquiry, Mr Arzuaga. Truth, justice and recognition always.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u135	Thank you, Mr. President. You call this very serious information that came out last week, but I want to contrast it with the atrocious silence that has been on the part of the institution. You expressed yourself in an act, specifically in Madrid, where you went to explain the Udaberri Plan – which we will already talk about, because you are going to make an appearance on it – and you were upset, uncomfortable, by the questions of a journalist specifically and until it was not the journalists, or until I myself have brought this topic, the institution has remained silent, madam... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... of a journalist in particular. And until it was not the journalists, or until it was I myself who brought this issue, the institution remained silent, Mrs Artolazabal. And, above all, by comparing with the insistence on which you have made interpellations, as you have already used us one day yes and another also, when you allude to violence, to alleged responsibilities, telling others how you have to feel, how you have to think and how you have to express yourself. And I believe that it has only focused on that demand, since the Udaberri Plan, and that is why it has contrasted so much, precisely, with the silence of these days. Y un silencio, ademas, que yo creo se mantiene, because you make the answer to this interference in the third person. And you're saying "deep" and "incontrolled" and "handy" but they're closer, Mrs. Thompson. They're not indefinction because they're Inchaurdon. Because they're still there. They're not hands. They're connected to PSOE. I don't know if it's the tip of the hand, but PSOE's ministers are involved here. There's a device controlled by PSOE here that's infiltrated, tight. And your associates are the ones that are involved in the government. They promote your government. It's the party that gives you absolute majority that's involved in this. They operated under the Sigle of PSOE, Barrinuevo, Corcuera, Vera or González. And I'd like to ask you if you're involved, if you don't feel involved in the first person, even if he doesn't feel involved. Juan Maria Atutxa, about Minister Corcuera, in an interview in El País, said: "He is a transparent man, a man of faith. I believe that, at no time, neither he towards me nor I towards him, we hide no letter." Did Mr. Atutxa know anything? Did you ask him? When the events happened the PSOE was already in the Government of Lakua, being Ardanza lehendakari, with Mr. Ramón Jáuregui as vicelehendakari. And you participated in the Covenant of Ajuria Enea, for the normalization and pacification of Euskadi along with them. While they were talking about normalization and pacification in Euskadi, these facts were being committed, Mrs Artolazabal. And I think you should feel linked, even indirectly. And that I also believe that I should make a critical reading, because I believe that there is a lot of appeal to the critical spirit, and on the contrary, there is a lot of cynical spirit. Humilazioa komentatzen nizun, biktimak sentitu direlako humiliatuak, urriak 12, eginen diren omenaldietan, Guardia Zibilari egin zion gorasarre ekitaldietan. The galdetzen said she was full of anger. You jumped as a spring against an act against life imprisonment suffered by a specific prisoner, recently, saying that it was a symbolic exaltation of political culture, violence, and an aggravation and revictimization of the victims. And I ask you if these same words you dare to pronounce them in favor of the victims of the State, with the acts of exaltation that we have recently seen in Sansomendi, in Intxaurrondo, in other barracks of the Civil Guard on October 12. You give me a speech, you say all the victims are the same. But the facts show that all victims are different, and that there are victims who are being treated first-class, with a level of recognition, with a tremendous level of institutional support, while others are being left out; they are being left in the corner, they are being left in the gutter. And you tell me, in a speech, that we have to investigate and that we have to declassify. And I ask you: beyond the speech, what are you willing to do? How are you going to implement these research measures? If you are going to resort to parliamentary committees, if you are going to resort to justice; how you are going to declassify; how you are going to launch concrete initiatives; if you are going to avoid new tributes such as those on 12 October. What are you going to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u136	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u137	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Arzuaga, I, in my first speech, reminded you of the position of this government. I did not feel uncomfortable, at all, with the questions a journalist asked me when I was in Madrid. And I answered what I thought I had to answer to a situation that was directly challenging me in the field of memory, coexistence and diversity, which was what I had gone to Madrid. I sincerely believe that telling me that I have a cynical spirit seems entirely inappropriate, not to say an insult, when you know that I have defended all the victims equally. I've always done it, which you still have a long way to go. When I was asking myself for information and positioning, and what the PNV is going to do, remembering what the PNV has done, what the Government, the previous governments are going to do, I would like to ask those questions too to the Government of the State, which is what you are supporting right now, and you are already supporting it. And it seems to me that, in that close relationship they maintain, it would be good if they were also required to do so. Because you said it yourself, didn't you? In the Bureau of Congress it has vetoed the possibility of the uprising being carried out or of investigating these situations. Therefore, everyone will have to – also – see what their responsibility is, right?, and what they have to do. I have always expressed a clear and strong position. And I believe that, moreover, it is a coherent position, something that others do not have, from which the principles of political action derive. The first, that of the application of Law 12/2016, in order to promote the legal, institutional and social and moral recognition of the victims of violations of... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... first, that of the application of Law 12/2016 to promote the legal, institutional and social and moral recognition of victims of human rights violations and other unjust sufferings produced in a context of politically motivated violence and our determination in this matter you know that it is total. Determination to drive and support decisively the work of the Evaluation Commission, whose first results we have already made public, were given opinions last June to those people who had been... and had suffered such violence on political grounds. It is a challenge and a conquest and I also believe that it is a success for us to do so in terms of truth, justice and recognition, and I believe that it is on the path we have to continue working on, and that is what all of us, Mr Arzuaga, and the Government, and this Parliament, too, want. Secondly, I was telling him that I was talking about truth, justice and recognition, and he's not going to shake our pulse in his demand, but man, I'd like you to have that vehemence too with all kinds of victims and not just with some kind of victims. True demand, justice and recognition for all violations of rights, for those of ETA and for the victims of extreme right-wing terrorism, and of course for those of violations of rights arising from abuse of power or the illegitimate use of violence by persons linked to State apparatus, which is what we have always defended, this Government has always defended and the previous governments too, and I believe that coming to give lessons on this issue because the truth, Mr Arzuaga, bothers me. And that demand begins by demanding justice because we are in a rule of law. Justice that, in its case, and I repeat that in its case, it should lead to the assumption of political, political and criminal responsibilities and to the necessary, sincere and also self-critical responsibility for this violation of human rights. And thirdly, and not least, the declassification of documents protected under the protection of official secrecy has been, is and will be a political objective and we have already been and some especially for a long time, raising that demand in terms of demand. Welcome, therefore, the voices that join the same. And it is not and should not be a flag of anyone, but of everyone, because it is a sine qua non condition to bring to its ultimate consequences the principles of truth, justice and recognition. The Future The Act on Historical and Democratic Memory already provides for amendments in relation to this subject, which today, as you said, is governed by Francoist legislation. Congress and Senate have a historical responsibility (?) to restore a basic principle of justice and coexistence, such as that of truth. I hope on that path, on the path of denouncing all violations, on the path of the demand for truth, justice and on the path of the demand for responsibilities and self-criticism, we (?) and recognize all violations of rights and meet all of us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The nineteenth subject on the subject list: "Interadective, the Greys of Amaia Martín, a member of the Mistho Group, made for Cultura and the Chief of Language, on the distribution of financial aids to the media. " Ms Martínnez is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u139	Thank you, Madam President, good morning, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. For decades the amount of public money spent on promoting the use of euskera has been huge. Millions of euros have made it possible for a large number of people to live thanks to policies of positive discrimination in the Basque language. Linguistic policy that is far from achieving the objectives for which it was designed and approved. Focusing on the issue we are discussing today, I want to highlight our doubts that it is the media like Deia or Gara that are the right channels for promoting the use of euskera. Moreover, in the media that publish in Spanish, the most outstanding news is never published in Basque, almost never. What is still a test of what is the reality in Basque homes, in which the majority of people speak Spanish. But I also have to recognise that injecting public money into private media is one more way to control information, to fatten first grateful and then related stomachs and to manage public opinion by doing so with intermediaries first. In short, I am convinced that the line of media subsidies in Spanish for the publication of news in Basque is more a way of controlling than of promoting. And this debate gives you, Mr Zupiria, the opportunity to prove me wrong. That financing the media is a magnificent way of making the Basque language that of all the people we live in this region. But I fear that the results are the same as those of his linguistic policy, frankly bad if we take into account the huge amount of money wasted on it. Over the past three years, his department has allocated EUR 3 million to subsidise the use of Basque in media that are mainly published in Basque. In other words, covert public funding of journalism related to its ideology and also to the most radical and independent options. Aids that are distributed in times of scarcity, which are also distributed for journalism, of course, and increasingly dependent and ideologicalized and increasingly partial and interested. I still remember the nervousness in the ranks of the PNV when in 2009 your current government partner dared to usurp the power you held since the times of transition. The PSOE made it supported by the PP, taking from them the Lehendakaritza, which made them fear a revolution also in its flagship media, in which it must be of all, but which to date seemed to be the property of its party, EITB. Then everything was left in a fright, in almost nothing, but in his party some alarms jumped and decided to strengthen their own means. Those who have always been theirs, Deia and the Newspapers became a hammer of infidels, the spearhead of their battle against the illegitimate ruler, supported by some radio station from which have emerged faithful opinion makers who are today on public television. It is a brief historical review of which you also know a lot, because as a good philosopher, has been editor of EITB, head of press of the lehendakari José Antonio Ardanza, and director of EITB, until that traitor PSOE arrived, at which time he jumped to the direction... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... And ETB, press chief of the lehendakari José Antonio Ardanza and director of EITB, until that traitor PSOE arrived, when he jumped to the direction of Deia, which is the flagship of the News Group. I am confident that you will not mind this brief review of your curriculum as an information manager, which I also consider very timely in a debate that focuses more on communication than on the promotion of one of the official languages of the Basque Country. Because the subsidies we are now talking about are more for the support and control of more or less similar means than for the use of the Basque. In fact, it is very curious that it is precisely the media of the News Group that engulfs their arches with a third of the subsidies that you allocate to the promotion of the use of euskera in newspapers, radios and digital media, whose usual language is Spanish. He's curious and even suspicious. And I'm also based on data from last year's exercise. In the Basque Country subsidizing the use of euskera is the great measure, allocating public money to means of a very defined ideological court, very close to its postulates, to those of its party. But it also involves financing others closer to their main rival in the polls, as is the case with Gara. In some ways, everything remains at home, since the goal is common: the contempt of everything Spanish, the diffusion of the independence dream and the one that they are turning into reality, based on fine rain and some other chaparron. You know better than anyone the importance of information control, media control. And these subsidies for the use of euskera seem more like an investment to reinforce related means and to control those who are not so much and who suffer the rigors of the widespread crisis of traditional journalism. Because what seems obvious is that the impact of these aids on the use of Basque is virtually nil. Many millions of euros are being invested in the promotion of the Basque language. Many millions every year and with frankly improved results. Maybe because their bet is imposition and not pedagogy. I think we should value this. Don't you think so? Recently established democracy, Basque began to be used as a sign of Basque's identity in front of Spanish, a language that divided a society marked by savage aggression into everything that Spain meant. And even today there are thousands of parents who encourage their children to study Basque, because, as much Spanish as you know, the facilities of access to a public job and many private ones are for those who believe certain knowledge of the Basque language. To devote a million euros each year to the use of Basque in the media that publish in Spanish is to pay favors and feed like stomachs. It is not an investment in impartial information or in the promotion of one of the official languages of the Basque Country. It is to deduct EUR 1 million from budget items intended to meet the real needs of the population. Even more so in times like those we live in, in which they should focus their efforts on evaluating the linguistic policy developed for years, and not so much on insisting on failed formulas with rather mediocre results. These are bad times for journalism, worse for impartial means without defined political affiliation. The media, all of them, have been living, for a few years, a difficult process of updating, of converting old formulas into others more in tune with the time of social networks, of the cloud, of global news. But many of these subsidized media, such as those devoted each year to publishing in Basque, are a guarantee of survival. And here, like anywhere else, you don't bite the hand that gives you food. Finally, there are many reasons why this route of directed and remote-directed aid should be closed. And there are many needs, besides, to meet with funds that today are destined for ideological and brand promotion.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u140	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u141	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, Mrs Martínnez, all good days. The line of subsidies subject to this inquiry is the so-called subsidies intended to increase the use of Basque in the media that mainly use Spanish, whether daily press or radio waves and in news agencies, which also broadcast news in Basque via the internet. And I am going to refer to the established procedure, which is the matter on which you have asked me. On 8 June the Governing Council adopted the order regulating and convoking the granting of the above subsidies for the year 2021. Subsequently, on 22 June, it was published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country. The grants for this financial year 2021 have not yet been resolved or granted. I will detail below the development that the procedure has had so far, after its publication on the above-mentioned dates of the order that regulates and summons them, as well as the phases in which we are at this time. The procedure, once the aid order has been published, is as follows. The entities concerned shall have a period of one month for submitting applications. As such, the deadline for submission ended on 22 July. Thirteen requests have been received. In September, a check was carried out on the requirements required in the order, such as nationality or social domicile, legal capacity and capacity to operate, constitution in accordance with the current legislation, activities that are carried out, percentage of public capital and foundational assets, public majority participation in government and management bodies, being aware of tax obligations or with Social Security, as well as of obligations for the return of subsidies, and being aware of the fulfilment of the obligations arising from the procedures for the return of grants, discharged in the Third Party Register of the Department of Economy and Finance, not being complying with the penalty for incurring discrimination on grounds of sex, not having been a beneficiary of the call for grants for Linguistic Standardization under the agreement signed between the Deputy Language Policy Advisor of the Basque Government and Basqueraren Erakunde Publkoa-Office Public de la Langue... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... linguistic standardization within the framework of the agreement signed between the Vice-Teacher of Linguistic Policy of the Basque Government and Euskararen Erakunde Publikoa-Office Public de la Langue Basque. Once this part has been revised, the technical examination of applications has been carried out. These weeks this study is being carried out by the technical staff of the Directorate for the Promotion of the Euskera. At this stage, the conditions for participation in the call are verified. To carry out the technical study, we analyze the forms presented, the technical description of the project and budget, and the relationship in paper and digital support of the news and reports published in Basque from 1 January until the date of publication of the order, in the case of press and news agencies, and the grill of weekly programming, in the case of radios. When the evaluation of applications is completed, the aid will be quantified by the Evaluation Committee and the proposal will be raised by the Deputy Language Policy Adviser. The Commission is expected to meet this same month in October. Entities benefiting from these grants must, in any event, fulfil the following obligations, in addition to those laid down in the consolidated text of the Law on the Computer Principles of the General Finance of the Basque Country. Firstly, to use the subsidy for the specific destination for which it has been granted, i.e. to guarantee and increase the presence of the Basque in its publications and programmes. Secondly, to implement fully the project provided for in the application; to provide as much information as is required by the Office of Economic Control and the Basque Court of Public Accounts in the exercise of its supervisory functions; to designate a person with proven knowledge of the Basque language who will ensure the correctness and suitability of its use; to comply with existing legal requirements in the areas of intellectual property, copyright, legal deposit, distribution, etc.; to respect human rights and the values of coexistence between persons; to respect freedom of expression and information; not to make a sexist use of the language and roles of men and women in accordance with the Equality between Women and Men Act 2005; to communicate the sponsorship of the Basque Government and to certify the fulfilment of the tax obligations of the contracting persons, as well as of the obligations with regard to social security. Like all calls, failure to comply with these obligations will result in the loss of the grant granted. When the time comes to justify the subsidy received, in this case, 31 March 2022, if any alteration in the conditions taken into account for granting the subsidy is assessed, it may result in the amendment of the resolution. If the project is not fully implemented, it will be reinstated. Regardless of the amount of the grant granted, any entity is obliged to justify to the Euskera Promotion Authority the implementation of the granted project. The deadline for doing so is 31 March 2022. This will be the time at which the monitoring of the grant will be carried out, and the following documentation will be considered at that time: memory of the granted project and the results obtained; liquidated budget of the granted project; statement responsible for not obtaining any other grant; classified ratio of the expenditure for the granted project; classified ratio of the corresponding revenue, copy of invoices or documents certifying the expenditure previously related to the above-mentioned matters; and a report of news and reports published in Basque throughout the year. In addition, to ensure the correct destination of the subsidy, the Euskera Promotion Directorate may request any additional information it deems appropriate. This is the way in which these subsidies are granted and monitored. This has been done in previous calls, and this will also be done in this edition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u142	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u143	Thank you, Madam President. I will be very brief in this turn of reply, because moreover it is already late, we are all tired and I believe that your disinterest, Mr Zupiria, is more than obvious. But I'm going to tell you one thing, a million euros a year, Mr. Zupiria. The data I have also given you are for the year 2020, not for the current year. And it's also data that's already reviewed. My question is, what media have they received the most? If I'm not mistaken, the News Group, right? Curious. Subsidizing the use of euskera in the media that they publish in Spanish, according to Vox, is throwing the money. And I say in Vox's opinion because for you it's something else, of course, it's control of the information that provides dependent means. It is also funding media related to nationalist ideology. But neither for me nor for you the promotion of euskera; it is superfluous expenditure, of course avoidable and, of course, absolutely unnecessary. I have no doubt that when this line of covert funding was designed, you already knew that it would be the means closest to your Government that would concentrate most of these subsidies, not to mention the other means somewhat shunned to the left. You've been in this world of communication management for many years, and you know how the picture is now, you know. How dependent can the media be in times of deep crises like those that have suffered from journalism for a few years now? You certainly know what cards to play, those that offer you the power held over time, plus, of course, experience. I announce to you that you already know what we are going to do, to invite this Parliament to raise the demand of the Basque Government to put an end to these... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ...time, plus, of course, experience. I announce that you already know what we are going to do, to invite this Parliament to raise the demand of the Basque Government to end these subsidies which are far from achieving the end for which they claim to be designed. A new opportunity for them to demonstrate their zero democratic talent and to show citizens what this parliament has become. And let no one hide in what, unfortunately, someone called in this Basque-speaking chamber, because neither I nor Vox have anything against any language in use; let alone against one that the Constitution itself recognizes as a co-official in the Basque Country. What we do have real phobia is to impose, to insist on conditioning the future of people, transforming what should be a merit, the knowledge of a language, into a form of discrimination of those people who cannot believe certain levels of knowledge of Basque. And we are phobia about the use that has been made of this language to divide a society that has suffered the persistent violence of those who have defended with all the means at their disposal to put an end to Spanish, with every symbol of our nation. The euskera has been an identity sign, a tool for dividing and discriminating. In Vox we will continue to defend freedom, of course, also that of the press, which is now our concern, the survival of independent and impartial media, if there is one today that can be defined this way. Of course, nothing to do with what you intend to do: consolidate a media landscape that is ideologically and economically dependent on your Government. They certainly are doing very well. Much has been learned since that tough legislature in which they were removed from power. And today they have a media brunette, as he liked to say, he remembers, Mr Arzallus, with his flagship, EITB and his faithful allies who add other smaller means that also live thanks to their campaigns and help. It's good for you. To the promotion of the use of euskera I think not so much. The citizenry even less. This million euros spent on media control, I repeat, on media control, should have another destination, which are many the needs that must be met right now and, moreover, many people that the Basque does not feed, Mr Zupiria, do not help them to reach the end of the month, which is what we all need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u144	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u145	President andrea, Martínez andrea. It is the function and obligation of the Department of Culture and Linguistic Policy and, in particular, of the Vice-Teacher of Linguistic Policy, to promote and develop programmes for the promotion of Basque in society. And the line of subsidies for which you have questioned me is fully framed by that task. This type of subsidy dates back to at least 2007. In 2019 we gave him a new impetus, both in terms of importance and criteria, because we believe that the media play a key role in the normalization of the euskera. In recent years, all the media interested in this grant are making an important effort to incorporate the Basque language into their writings and work teams, because of their interest in offering their audiences and audiences a more complete and diverse product, with added value for the people who consume them. But not only are we meeting the goal of offering the society content and information spaces in Basque, we also help the media that have not yet done so to approach this language and integrate the Basque into their work dynamics. In our opinion, with the incorporation and presence of Basque in the media that mainly use Spanish, the listeners, the readers and also the media themselves clearly win. And on the basis of all this is the right to receive citizenship also in Basque. This was set out in the 1982 Euskera Act, which devotes several articles to this issue of the media. Article 22 recognizes the right of all citizens to be informed by the social media, both in Spanish and in Basque. To this end, it provides that the Government shall take measures to increase the presence of Basque in the social media, with a view to progressive equality in the use of both official languages. In its article 23, it states that the Government shall promote the preferential employment of Basque in the media of the Autonomous Community in order to ensure the equality of both languages. Article 25 states that the Government shall, in order to progressively guarantee the right recognized in the above-mentioned article, adopt measures aimed at promoting and protecting the use of Basque, enhancing, in any case, its dissemination and possibilities for effective use in broadcasting, the press and publications, cinema, theatre and shows, means of reproduction of images and sound. The European Charter for Minority or Regional Languages, an international agreement ratified in Strasbourg in 1992 by the Member States of the Council of Europe, including the Spanish State, incorporates this objective of the defence and promotion of languages, of all the languages of Europe. Article 11 on the media states that "the publication of press articles in regional or minority languages shall be encouraged and/or facilitated on a regular basis and that the additional costs of the media using regional or minority languages shall be covered when the law provides for general financial assistance to the media". These subsidies, Mrs Martínez, are in line with the promotion of the use and knowledge of Basque, and the standardization of its use, also in the media. The media at all levels, in all countries and in all languages are undergoing a moment of dizzying transformation in both technology and consumption habits. They face each other... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ... all languages undergo a moment of dizzying transformation in both technology and consumption habits. They face an unknown future scenario. And, at the same time, European democracies want more than ever to have strong, strong and independent means of communication capable of adapting to these transformations, and also to the guarantee of the democratic system in the face of populist discourses. Most of the media are making an important effort in this regard in their commitment to provide quality and professional information for society. And it is the duty of this Government to ensure the presence of the Basque in that reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u146	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. The twentieth point in the theme list: "I'm asking you, Gustavo Angulo García, together Podemos, members of the Antucian team, with Kultura and the head of the political team, about the reductions that are set in the cinemas to eat and drink." Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u147	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, counselor. On 6 October, the world of cinema stood stoned by the Government's measures to address the health crisis. The order of the end of the state of alarm that established the measures that would govern this new normality prevented them from carrying out their activity in a normal way. Since then, the Euskadi cinemas, which do not belong to the rest of the state, have been banned from drinking drinks and food except for water. What has led to such a decision? Why in the previous months you could eat and live in the cinemas and from the 6th you can't?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u148	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Mr. Zupiria, to answer, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u149	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Angulo. During the year and a half of the pandemic, many measures have been taken by Basque institutions and all have been aimed at preserving health. And thanks to the balance between health measures and those that have conditioned our normality, it has been possible to cope with the different situations that we have experienced in this year and a half. Now, thanks to the vaccination and the effectiveness of the measures taken, we are almost completely recovering normality in our lives, even though the world is still in a state of pandemic. On 7 October, the lehendakari decreed the end of the health emergency and the Department of Health set a set of rules that will remain in force as long as public health criteria so provide. One of the main measures taken has been to allow full, 100 % foreclosures in all areas, whether open or closed, where cultural activities are taking place. A demand long demanded by the sector. In view of the difficulties that cinemas have experienced, the Public Health Directorate of the Basque Government has chosen to eliminate the requirement to maintain a distance of meter and a half between people coming to cinemas, something that would otherwise be impossible. If it is not possible to maintain the interpersonal distance, Mr Angulo, we must be particularly demanding with the use of the mask, and insist that it should be used continuously and permanently inside the rooms. Ingesting food or food and drink involves removing the mask. And, according to the opinion of the Directorate of Public Health, this is a situation to avoid, especially in a room with full capacity, as has not been possible so far. I, during this year and a half, have not discussed one of the proposals made by those responsible for our health, and I will not do so now. I have worked and tried to understand, explain and recommend their fulfillment, and that is what I intend to continue to do now too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u150	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u151	The cinemas in Euskadi have been an example of discipline, responsibility for taking the necessary measures that the Basque Government has put in place to deal with COVID-19. Faithful reflection of this is the undeniable fact that there has been no outbreak in these classrooms throughout the pandemic, and this has been possible thanks to the enormous diligence with which they have carried out their work. In spite of this, exhibitors, one of the most affected sectors, their losses reach 15 million euros. Many cinemas have had to close down and now, which seemed to improve expectations, the ban on eating and drinking in movie theaters is a strong blower that will force them to continue applying ERTE, at best. And it is that the consumption of popcorn, candy or soft drinks accounts for as much as 25% of the film collection and is therefore a fundamental element for its economic viability. This new restriction, in our opinion, is illogical and contrary to epidemiological criteria, will cause the recovery that was beginning to glimpse the sector to be more difficult or to go to the railway station. I think it is not time to put stones on the road to cultural recovery, but quite the contrary. And the Department of Culture should already be preparing plans for the sector's reactivation and for spectators to return to the halls. If you really think it is necessary to restrict the consumption of food and drink in cinemas, why in the months of July and August, when the incidence was more than 800 cases for every 14 days, was it allowed and now that the incidence is 50 is not allowed? What resources do you intend to arbitrate or launch the department or are you going to let the rooms themselves and the agents in charge of, the movie hostess, be the watchers of compliance? You know that we, our group, have also been supporting all the health prevention measures that the Government has been taking throughout this pandemic, because we understood that the situation required responsibility and high-level attention from all political groups, and we also understood that the situation was particularly dramatic. He needed political cohesion and determination. [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ... responsibility and high-mindedness of all political groups, and we also understood that the situation was particularly dramatic. He needed political cohesion and determination. However, our only condition for supporting those measures is that they have a minimum of coherence, and this, in our view, does not. And you know it perfectly well. What makes sense that in a bar people are eating and living elbow by elbow and talking without masks, while in a cinema room with higher ceilings, air conditioning and all looking in the same direction, they are prevented from eating and drinking. Thank you very much, Mr. Counsellor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u152	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Mr. Zupiria, to answer, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u153	Mr. Angulo, we notice the difficulties and efforts of the cinema rooms in the course of the year and half of this year, and that is why we have kept them open, as far as we can, from some year of June which the cinema rooms have been open all around us. And it has been one of our cares to help the cultured areas and to relieve the damages that even the theatres have suffered. From that Illust, I want to announce a new calling of scholarship for the purpose of helping the cinema halls. The whole thing is going to be a 200,000 phone call, and there's a number of other helps that we've already applied to the cinema rooms this year. This month we will open the summons and the aid of the cinema halls before the 31th of March to the European origin or the film of the Latin American. This is a new call for aid which we will launch this month with a budget of EUR 200,000 for the exhibition companies. Up to 15,000 euros will be available for cinemas with three or fewer rooms and up to 25,000 cinemas with more than three rooms. This call is in addition to other aid that we have allocated to this sector during the same year, such as the Zinemazale berriak programme, with EUR 400,000, or the increase of EUR 240,000 in subsidies that Zineuskadi allocates to cinemas, among others. We are aware of the circumstances that the cinema industry has experienced this year and a half of the pandemic, and that is why we will not be sensitive and working with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-10-15.u154	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at two and six o'clock in the afternoon.
