ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u0	Good morning, everyone. Welcome to the legislature, the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the subject list, I remember that 32 lords and ladies have inherited the vote. And before we start the list of subjects, we'll have a minute's silence for Gregor Ordoñez. [[One minute's silence]] One theme: "The full corrections proposed to the bill of law which the General Public Account supports in Euscal Autonomia Eroria 2021. The discussion and the vote. "Mingorn has the word. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief of the department. Good day to all of you congressmen. First of all, I want to introduce you to the bill of the General Précament of the Basque Précaments for the next act. The admission of this project is precisely because it belongs to this Chamber. As you know, I have always remarked that this law is not a law of any kind, but that it is a law that projects itself into the rest of the sciences which are the rights of the EukMah, and covers its economic demands during the year 2021. But, to say this, we're not here any year, in the year of rebuilding this year, in front of an important economic effort, and, I hope, outside a huge economic effort. I am used to drawing attention to and abounding in the idea that this law under no circumstances is any law, but it is a law that is projected to the rest of the sectoral matters competence of the Basque Government, whose economic requirements cover throughout the year 21. But on this occasion, moreover, it is not an ordinary law for any exercise, and that is because we do not come from any year. It is an exercise we have called the beginning of economic recovery and improvement of general well-being, of very important endogenous economic effort, especially in terms of public debt, and of exogenous effort, let us hope that it will be unusual, especially in terms of European funds, and to face an uncertain year in health and social terms with sound and realistic budgetary bases and with capable public policies. As you also know, this Government, despite its position of sufficient majority to carry out the budgetary rule on its own, has made an exercise in dialogue and, in some cases, negotiation with the political groups represented in this House to contribute their positions to the project in an attempt to widen the consensus that socio-economic reality recommended at the present time. At this point you all know that, despite the effort, it has not been possible to close a minimum consensus in this year's public accounts with any parliamentary group. And the Government, in general, and this Councillor, in particular, we regret that it has been so, as it was a good time to face from less-challenged budgetary and economic positions a year that looks hard on health and the social. I shall speak of negotiations which have been and which have not been, but I shall now discuss some explanation. That is to say, the economic context that lives in Euskka, the budget scope which has taken the priority of public policies to be developed in 2021, and which, being reserved for the law, will be included in the articulate text that supports credits. The draft general budget of Euskadi for the year 21 amounts to 12,442 million euros. And the operating budget, that is, the one available for spending on public policies, isolating financial assets, is 770 million euros higher than that of the project presented in 2020. That is, 7.1% more than last year. I have repeated this on several occasions on the occasion of the presentation of the general budget of Euskadi. These are going to be undiminished budgets in public policies and away from austerity. This budget is a courageous look at our future, the road to social reconstruction and economic revival and the employment of Euskadi. We face it with strength and confidence. The economic context of the COVID-19 is conditioned by the pandemia, because it's already in the third breath of contagion, and the insertion campaign, as the vaccine doses reach, progresses. That's not only the Basque Esquires, but the whole economy in the world. The pandemic has affected both developed and emerging countries. The vast majority of them cut their GDP sharply in the year 20. The main exception was China, which recorded an average increase of 2.3%, with an advance in the fourth quarter of 6.5%; somewhat higher than the average recorded, even in the year 19. In these developed countries, in the rest of the developed countries, GDP falls from 5% in 2020 to 11.1% in Spain, with 9.2% in Italy, 9% in France and 10% in the United Kingdom. The United States, which chose not to restrict the economy at the cost of registering the highest number of deaths in the world, of the order of 420,000 people, recorded a drop rate of 3.4% last year, and Japan of 5.1%. In these figures, the fall of 9.4% of the Basque economy, which has been published as an advance by Eustat, must be recorded. From this level, the expected growth for the year 21 is 8.6%. This year, therefore, we are not going to recover everything we lost last year, either in Euskadi or in the environmental economies, for which increases are expected, in general, more modest. Thus, the International Monetary Fund shows a 3.5 % boost for Germany, 5.5 for France, 3 % for Italy, 4.5 for the United Kingdom and 5.9 for Spain. Even in 2022, important growth rates are partly expected through the European help program, which will reach these countries. With regard to Euskadi, the significant growth mentioned above will be based primarily on the rebound of domestic demand aggregates, both private consumption, 8.7% and, in particular, public investment, 9.4%. But a small positive contribution from the external sector is also anticipated, as exports will grow above imports. All sectors will see extraordinary increases this year, in particular industry, which is projected to increase by 9.7% annually. Employment will thus benefit from the upturn in economic activity and, in terms of the employed, employment creation is estimated at 15,700 jobs, significantly reducing the number of people who are going to be in ERTE. Turning now to the budgetary economic framework of the project, the objectives of budgetary stability, it seems that by 2021 the deficit of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi will be 2.2%, an objective which, on the one hand, is a reference rate and, on the other, contrasts with the previous year, where a draft budget was presented in terms of budgetary balance. As for financial funds, the contributions of the forums have been reduced to 854 million euros, corresponding to the budget of 2020. The total is 9.619 million euros in 2021, that is, 77% of the entire budget. For its part, public debt in 2021 should not exceed the reference rate of 16.9 % of gross domestic product. With regard to debt amortisation, the draft budget for 2021 amounts to 768 million euros, 53,4 million euros more than in 2020. The Government remains faithful to its commitments to ensure and improve social policies and enhance economic development and employment. Thus, 77.8% of this project corresponds to social policies. In addition, the Basque Executive continues to bet on public investment, which in 2021 – without counting the Basque Y or the southern railway variant – will exceed 955 million euros with an increase of 6,4 %. You are well aware of the main dimensions of the budget by departments, sectors of activity and public policies, but I am going to dwell on some specific issues. As I told you, we are faced with a budget marked by the pandemic, which is why this budget includes a COVID programme, with EUR 542 million, distributed in the various departments, to deal with this reality. The COVID program collects 542 million euros divided into different sections. And from these, 178 million dollars are for Osature, to buy medical equipment, for assistance of health and educational workers, for enterprises, ETE and autonomists, financial lines; for rents, for hires, for the primary negotiation against social shores, for culture or tourism, or for building ERTAIN, 6,5 million euros. Besides, 140 million euros have been saved for surprises that might happen during the event. In turn, the draft budget reflects a strong and clear commitment to R & D investment, which is a cross-cutting spending line involving different departments, with an investment close to EUR 536 million, representing an increase of 9.7%, in absolute terms EUR 47.2 million more. This is a transit budget to normality. The Basque Government, more than ever, remains faithful to its commitments to ensure and improve social policies and to enhance development and employment. Thus, as mentioned above, 77.8% of this project corresponds to social policies again. Almost eight out of ten euros are allocated to health, education, employment and social policies. Health is going to be the department with the largest budget, close to 4,184 million euros, which is 236,6 million more than in 2020, 6% more. The main heading, logically, is that of Osakidetza, with 3,126 million euros, which is also growing by 216 million euros. The Board of Education has 3.108 million, that is to say, 170 million rounds of growth. More than half of this promotion, 55,3%, is directed to improve the salary conditions of public workers. The Department of Labour is the third largest, with €943.8 million and an increase of €37.3 million in absolute terms. Security will handle a budget close to €692 million and Economic Development and Environmental Sustainability, the fifth department in budget weight, with €654 million, has an increase of 9.4%. In turn, the policies managed by Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport have about 507 million euros. The Department of Equality, Justice, and Political Society, will have 461,4 million euros, and the great powers of action will be the support of the most violent social distress and poverty. The Cultural and Language Polic Department will grow up to 299.8 million euros. Public Governance and Self-Government presents a budget of 129.4 million euros for the year 2021 with a strong presence of programs related to computer innovation and digitization, which are close to 60 million euros in the budget. In the Department of Economy and Finance we will manage a budget of 87.3 million euros, with an increase of 32.4 million euros, derived from the costs of the financing lines for SMEs and autonomous companies, activated with Elkargi. Finally, Tourism, Trade and Consumption increases its budget to 47.2 million and Lehendakaritza will have 32.4 million euros. As I said to you, it's an unseasonable budget, a lot of ambition, a bold look for the future, a wager for the present. With regard to the text of the draft General Budgets Act for the financial year 21, it consists of five titles, 40 articles, 12 additional provisions and seven final provisions, as well as four annexes supplementing it. Title I, as a novelty, for the first time, includes the budgets of the public body under private law Euskadiko Kirol Portuak, which began its activities on 1 June of the year 20. However, the budgets of public companies Euskadiko Kirol Portuak SA and Zumaiako Kirol Portua SA, which are in the process of extinction, are not incorporated. Nor are the budgets of public companies Eusko Irratia-Radiodiffusion Vasca SA, Gasteiz Irratia-Radio Vitoria SA and Eitbnet SA, which have been extinguished by their absorption by the Public Society Euskal Telebista-Television Vasca SA, which is now called EITB Media SAU. Finally, the budgets of the public society Basque Trade & Investment do Brasil, whose creation was authorized at the end of the year 20, are also included. I. In the title, the 10 articles, in succession, tend to establish, and to fix, the bounds of giving and refining, as well as the duties of debtors. We know that we are moving in an exercise in which the rules of budgetary stability, basically the deficit and debt limit, in addition to the expenditure rule, do not play as limitations, but as references, but I can tell you that if we have to reach in year 21 the limits that we have set ourselves in terms of guarantees and indebtedness set out in the Joint Economic Concert Commission and that are reflected in the articulation of the law, or even go beyond, we will do so without shaking our pulse, as we have done in the year 20, through the legislative instruments that are necessary. Title II provides, in relation to the content of budgets, for different provisions relating to expenditure statements. Chapter III of the title deals with the system of remuneration and liability. In this respect, in general terms for all staff serving the public sector, a maximum increase of up to 0,9 % is expected compared to the consolidated salaries in 2020, including those of a deferred nature. Unlike the previous year, however, for the year 21 it is not anticipated that the contributions to the social welfare system will be increased by the public sector entities of the Basque Autonomous Community and, as in my previous appearance, this decision is not due to the will of the Government, but because it does not find direct legal coverage for an increase in these items, since the basic legal imperative hinders this incremental solution in the wage mass. If there were opportunities throughout the year to make incremental contributions, the Government was prepared to deal with them in economic terms, all of which, logically, did not enter into any other collective bargaining valuations. As an important innovation, a new chapter has been added, about the management of the funds connected with the re-establishment plan. He's been talking about this subject over this place and many other forums, and we'll be talking about it in the next few weeks, I'm sure. But today, we must state that it is only this law that makes it easier to make these funds more efficiently accessible to these extra incomes by determining the bridge to access the Euscal Autonomy affairs. In view of the transfers that the State will receive through this initiative, therefore, resources from Europe to the budgets of the Basque institutions and administrations can be substantially increased in the coming years, although at the moment it is not known how much and in what temporal scope. I repeat, now, in the absence of the legal implementation by the European institutions of the implementation of some of these extraordinary financing mechanisms, notably the MRR, as well as of the specification by the State of the requirements and conditions for the management of funds and the role of the communities in such management, it is, however, appropriate to provide for a set of provisions to facilitate their incorporation into our budgets, as well as the administrative processing of the actions and projects that finance these funds. By the way, we're getting to know more and more about regulation. And we are familiar with the governance model that the State intends to use for the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism (RRM) in the State. It is well known that we have been critical of its content and of the way in which the sectoral conference has been designed, which coordinates the actions that they are taking for the entry of European funds into Spain, and we expect a certain renewal, given that our budget implementation and its effectiveness depend on it. There is, therefore, a lot of uncertainty. The multi-level co-governance approach for the management of the RRM proposed by the Basque Government to the Government of Spain is based on the very guidelines that Europe is marking for states with a view to optimizing the absorption of European resources from the Structural Funds, the Next Generation Funds and the multiannual financial framework. This same week, at the annual meetings between the European Commission and the Government of Spain, Europe demanded the need to coordinate the funds of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism with the ERDF funds in the period 21-27, given the great similarities between the 10 levers of the PRTR Spain Pode and the five ERDF political objectives for the period 21-27. It is precisely the same line that Euskadi proposes, but now blessed or endorsed by Europe. In particular, the Commission asked about the measures to be taken to ensure complementarity between the RRM and the ERDF in terms of selection criteria, prioritisation and governance. In the bill of law it is quick to use and create credits, and to include these funds in budgets, enabled by economics and taxing department, connected with the specific finance of activity and project. And the budgets apply quickly, if the firm contribution is accepted for each case, to check legal tools. They will also see a separate and immediate identification for the transparent monitoring of funds from the European initiative, as it is envisaged that the Department of Economy and Finance can create a multi-departmental programme, with the organisational and economic classification that it determines, and that it will incorporate new credits financed from transfers and contributions from the State Administration or the European Union. The arrangements for budgetary changes affecting these appropriations, which include a number of provisions relating to budgetary implementation and justification of expenditure linked to these actions and projects, are made more flexible by providing for specialities in their administrative processing, both for the formalisation of legal instruments and for the management of public aid and subsidies. Lastly, we believe that the continuation of the execution of this Chamber makes it easier to control it. In fact, I'm expecting you to announce every three months to the Basque Legal the class and specific purpose of the funds connected with the re-establishment of the next Genation EU plan. With regard to income (Title III of the draft law), in addition to the contributions of the out-of-pocket members agreed at the Basque Finance Council held on 15 October 2020, it was considered appropriate not to increase the amount of the rates of the General Finance of the Basque Country, from the fixed amount that was established, with the exception of those rates that are specifically updated in the first final provision of this rule. In its final part, the draft law provides for 12 additional provisions which, in an informal manner, establish certain specificities with regard to the general system of budget implementation. These provisions include an increase in income guarantee income by 1.8 per cent over the amount applied during the financial year 20; the establishment of a fixed amount of EUR 250 per month for the supplementary housing benefit and the economic housing benefit; the authorization to the Government to regulate and dispose, where necessary, in connection with the processes of administrative reorganization of the public sector of the Basque Autonomous Community; or the granting to the Department of Education of an extraordinary invitation to tender for transfers for the provision of research and teaching support services. Among these extensions, as novelty, the twelfth additional regulations have been introduced. For, within the scope of the specific regulations of the civil protection housing, he has answered the necessity of entering private public coworkers' mechanism, in order to obtain the housing in general, in order to respond to the housing duties of persons who do not use public protection. The draft law is supplemented by seven final provisions amending certain legal rules to improve its operation, such as the consolidated text of the Law on Fees and Public Prices of the Administration of the Basque Autonomous Community; Law 1/2006 of 23 July on Waters, in relation to the regulation of the water canon; the consolidated text of the Law on Computer Principles of the General Finance of the Basque Country, approved by Legislative Decree 1/1997 of 11 November; the consolidated text of the existing legal provisions on the budgetary regime of Basque Country, or Law 4/1986 of 23 April on Statistics of the Basque Autonomous Community. The articles and regulations of the law are composed of four appendages, each of which is concerned with the constitution of commitments that are produced in 2021, the budgets of public society, credits, and economic methods for educational habits. These, after all, are the principal magnitudes and characters of the bill of law of General Preveence for the 2021 act of Euscal Autonomia Erria. On 21 December, and on the occasion of the presentation of the draft budgets in the committee, I made a final reflection and announced meetings with the parliamentary groups present in the House in order to examine the possibility of bringing together wills in relation to the parliamentary approval of this year's accounts. I shall now turn to this in order to conclude. The reflection I have made, and I continue to keep it here today, is that we are faced with an absolutely decisive budgetary exercise. If we are all able this year to lay solid foundations for a push to economic development from the public with the means we have and with the revenues that can come, it will certainly be better for us. But health instability increases day by day, which causes great uncertainty in economy and budgets. But we'll find out how to handle it with sufficient flexibility. We still think that we are dealing with a budget which has the right features for the moment of hardness, as well as with the economic side, as with the sanitary side. It incorporates adequate and generous spending appropriations for social, labour and employment public policies that move forward and do not back down. It implements innovative and effective initiatives, but – as I also said and now maintain – the annual budget is not a perfect document and is always susceptible to improvement. And although, unlike previous exercises, this Government does not need special support for its approval, it has also not given up seeking new support, in order to send a more consensus social message, in principle limited to exercise 21, which will be a special year from public spending. Regrettably, it has not been possible to add new support, even if it is partial. The draft proposed by the Government and the four amendments to the whole of the draft attest to this. Despite the effort to approach the conversation, political priorities, budgets, and economic policies, have a priority in the decisions of the opposition teams when they're about to place themselves in front of the introduced project. I am aware that the budget and its approval are eminently political acts, but to condition a government budget accompaniment to directly political demands, sometimes contradictory to government interests, is unrealistic and does not demonstrate predisposition or social utility. Meetings with the groups have taken different courses, depending on the case. As in the cases of the Mixed Group and the Basque-Citizens People's Group, the impossibility of negotiation was clear, direct and without return by announcing both groups almost immediately amendments of the whole, it did not happen directly with groups such as EH Bildu or Elkarrekin Podemos. In relation to the Mixed Group and the People-Citizens Group, thanking you for your clarity, I just want to say that we are not taking part in your opinion at all. Because they are neither nationalist budgets, nor false budgets, nor wasteful ones, nor where the excess of the public versus the private takes a letter of nature. They are at least antagonistic starting points for exercise 21. Chronicle of an announced self-exclusion could define our experience in the frustrated single meeting with EH Bildu, as it arose in terms of the need to recognize the annual accounting document. In the view of the above-mentioned group, it should be placed in a completely vicarious position with regard to a general political strategy that needed to be shared in advance. In other words, in order to talk about budgets, it had to start from a medium-sized and long-range integrated view and insert the project into that dimension. Obviously, after announcing the transmission of a comprehensive, six-page proposal, which came almost a week later, and analysing it in detail, there was no second meeting, since it was the Government itself that appreciated, as they were told, an overly pretentious, maximalistic and inappropriate negotiating model of acceptance. Far from seeking to broaden consensus around the budget, it denoted uncompromising attitudes with the value of a hypothetical accompaniment of EH Bildu to the accounts of the year 21, always limited to influencing the budget but never to conditioning the public policies of those who govern with numerical sufficiency to approve the project in solitary. The epitome of this conception was the rupturist proposal manager of the European funds, where it was proposed to make a joint defense in Madrid and give a joint response in Brussels...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u2	Please go to the end. Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u3	Yes, soon, thank you. ... and to provide a joint response in Brussels to restrictive measures and possible screening of projects in these bodies. A common front, creating a permanent political framework for the debate. I wonder whether Bildu's accusation to the Government, at the time of presenting its full amendment to the budget text, of wanting to exclude the coalition from negotiations because it knows that it is an alternative to Jeltzale training, will not be the opposite. That is, is it not that, as EH Bildu is considered the alternative to government parties, he is not willing to agree anything with this Government precisely to project that there is an alternative and that it is they? I encourage you, not to mix plans, not to mix them up: The Government governs; the legislature makes laws, and controls the action of the Government. If we're all on that field with clear rules, we can understand each other. We will see whether an attitude of harassment and budgetary downfall, or of maximum demand, that comes to be the same – not required by the coalition in other latitudes where its incidence can be more decisive – is maintained throughout the legislature. And that's because this department is going to want to incorporate new budget support, also next year's, and I'm announcing it from now on. The negotiations of the department with the Elkarrekin Group We can – I am going to finish, Madam President – did not succeed, but ended without lines of impossible acceptance, with transparency and, we believe, with awareness of the situation that each one occupies on the parliamentary board. I still understand that it was not considered with sufficiency by Elkarrekin We can the latest of the government's proposals, where the balanced inclusion of commitments of political-economic scope, not far away in many cases from agreements reached in housing and taxation by the Elkarrekin coalition We can in Vitoria-Gasteiz with the municipal government, and in the government of Navarre also with EH Bildu, could – together with the influence of more than 90 million euros in the budgetary margin of this year – have been better welcomed by the group. But this is an opinion of the Government, as is the fact that the interruption of the negotiations on this point prevented the extension within Elkarrekin We can of an excess of institutional responsibility, a certain fear of the compromise that resulted in this first year of some political danger. In any case, with Elkarrekin Podemos a certain negotiating space has been created that has not been filled in this agreement in this exercise, but in a framework of trust and loyalty let us hope that it can be consolidated – with will and realism – in the coming years or years. Of course, this will is extendable to the rest of the parliamentary groups, understanding the logical political positions of each and every one of them. I finish now, and I do so by going back to the first part of my presentation, that is, to the macro table and to the general economic table in which we find ourselves. As you will know, this same week, the data collected for the year 2020, once the exercise has been closed, have been made public by the three outlaws. Of course, its officialization must take place in the Basque Finance Council before 15 February. But I can tell you that although the annual drop in the closing forecast that was made at the October meeting of the Basque Public Finance Council has been confirmed, it has not been of the intensity expected; it has fallen by 9.8%. In October, however, it was a fall of 13.3%.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u4	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u5	Right now, thank you. They are hopeful data, despite the sharp drop in revenue, that make us face this exercise in a significantly different way, surely, with greater capacity to face new initiatives, always from the prudence of spending. You are aware that the priority must be to deal with all our economic capacities as a result of the evolution of the pandemic, its economic and, above all, social consequences. I'm sure that, as the department I'm in is making a suggestion, if new wants arise, we'll take the necessary measures, and that we won't have any complexities to deal with without a single public policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u6	Thank you, chief physician. Mist team has the word to take advantage of its full correction. It's been a while, so you'll have the same time as the teams, you'll have more time to defend your full correction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Lehendakari, councillors, ladies and gentlemen. I am not going to go into figures and data because the time I have does not allow me, and I am going to make a global reading of the budgets. The economy is the foundation on which our present and our future revolve. The responsibility of making realistic and consistent accounts with the current picture is to state in a frank manner – and I think we all agree on that – that we have no idea what is going to happen in the summer, whether or not we will save the campaign and whether the pandemic will end in 2021 or perhaps 2024. We do not know, and not knowing this, what is not supported is the forecasts on which these budgets are based. We are indebted on the basis of valueless forecasts, without a proposal to know how to pay those debts to which they condemn us. There is no doubt that the Administration must go to debt in order to overcome this endless gap, but is it not fair to ask that the belt be adjusted first? Can you imagine a family that goes from having all its members working to suddenly having them unemployed? How prudent would it be for this family to go on vacation to Ezcaray, as they did every year, without knowing when they would return to work? This is exactly the philosophy of these budgets: acting as if nothing had happened here. A reckless decision where there are, a continuous budget. If Vox were to depend on it, the note on these budgets would be clear: suspended roundabout. I have to confess, his accounts have left us ice cream, as well as the people who are out there passing cold without being able to work, powerless in the face of the ruin that could have been avoided, in the face of a disastrous management that they can no longer cover with the apology that the pandemic is unpredictable. That excuse was exhausted a few months ago. Gentlemen of the Government, reflect. They have not convinced anyone, either to the right or to the left. His accounts are far from reality. Or rather, they stayed in that distant 2019. But let's be realistic, you can do this, you have the power to do it. But the problem is not that we have not convinced the opposition groups, the issue is the disappointment of hoteliers, traders, entrepreneurs and vulnerable people. The hoteliers are not satisfied. I have spent days visiting many and they have told me firsthand – there is Mr Hurtado, but I am addressing him – that they have not received a euro or that what they have received have been crumbs that do not give them even for pipes. They have to see, however, how 150 million euros are squandered on a Basque public television that is the most expensive in all of Spain. And, meanwhile, they received alms when they should have been compensated for forcing them to close their blinds. Our elders presented us this Monday with a document calling, among other things, for masks to enter the health card. Instead, they have preferred to spend on further promoting Basque, something that Basque society does not feed us. Our traders feel cheated when they see the amount of resources destined to open embassies abroad or launch a brand that nobody recognizes outside Spain, Basque Country. Millions of euros and dilapidated resources. And what does one find when walking through the centres of the Basque cities? Closure, abandonment, all full of "sold" and "rent" posters. On the other hand, many sports federations are outraged at accounts that devote hundreds of thousands of euros to internationalizing Basque sport, more than even to empowering sports in people with special needs or women's sport or sports with great roots such as rugbi or canoeing. However, they give priority to the frivolous dream of a Basque football team in the face of the needs of other absolutely underfunded sports. Sectors I have been able to visit, as I say, throughout this week, which are desolate, collapsed in the face of a situation that has put their lives up. And in the face of this, the accounts that are approved today are ordinary, as if the covid had not wreaked havoc on our society. They have made it clear what their bet is: not to give up their nationalist project for a second. Our reading is clear: before a ruined Basque country than without euskaldunizing. This is important and society must know. They're forcing us all to tighten our belts. But you do not give up anything; on the contrary, we have the greatest number of high political positions. I am concerned about the lack of prudence in the face of the crisis that haunts us, a recklessness based on indebtedness in more than 2.5 billion euros to follow the party, the party of politicians, which will be paid by Basque companies and families. There are no magic formulas and this must be said loud and clear: the debt will be paid by the usual ones, the early Spain and the middle classes. But what do the ruling parties do? I remind you that some of the points of our beloved and disorbited institutional architecture could be cut. For example, Parliament, parliaments, municipalities, gangs... We have a giant structure for a tiny region of just over 2 million inhabitants, who have very serious problems on the horizon, not only the pandemic, but an ageing that will make many more retirees than workers in 30 years' time. Isn't it time to make reforms? Isn't it brave enough? Isn't it time to admit that we can't duplicate institutions without need? Has this pandemic not served to see that the autonomous system that abounds in duplication costs much more and is less efficient? Of course, these questions cannot be answered by the Basque political class, as it is part of the same problem. Globalist movements seek to destroy the nation-state, they want us separated, because so we are weaker, we are left at the expense of their will. We invite you to work with courage and generosity and make the necessary reforms so that, like us, our children can be the owners of their destiny, and for that we have to rationalize resources and seek the main goal of every society: rowing together. From Vox we believe that other budgets are possible, where by culture it is understood to empower everyone equally and not only a certain vision of the world against another; where the Department of Security directs resources towards the goal of being a reference in the investigation of crimes of all kinds; where by education it is to train our young people and not to indoctrinate them in the precepts of their ideology; where the priority is to help our elders and vulnerable people and not impose the euskera. In Vox we understand that other budgets are possible, budgets based on 0, where each level of expenditure is duly justified, according to the needs of the moment, where they cannot be justified for the previous years more than 12 billion, where both of them cut off while facing the most devastating economic crisis of the century, with the aim of making it seem that nothing happens here, with the point of view put in political marketing and not in people as a vertebrate axis. They live a parallel reality. Their world is not that of the rest of the Basques and, if they do not admit this, then they do these accounts knowingly that they are an exercise of absolute irresponsibility. And what's worse, he condemns us to live by towing away his bad decisions. Then they will say that we are populists, but let one thing be clear to them: there is nothing more populist than promise and not fulfill. There's nothing worse than lying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u8	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Do you think anyone should participate in answering their reverse shifts? Yeah. Mrs. Corcuera, Basque Socialists, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u9	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, the assessment of the Basque Socialists is purely political, because of politics and ideology, the amendment to the whole of Vox has been tabled. The meeting of the Basque Government with Vox to negotiate the budgets ended with the absolute divergence of positions and the antagonism of a vision of the Basque public accounts that the Basque Socialists celebrate. In its amendment to the whole, Mrs Martínez, terms such as "sperpent", "irresponsibility", "unnecessary and irresponsible management", "similarity with the Government of Spain", " superfluous spending", "ideological departments such as equality and that of culture and linguistic policy", "oversized administration", "break of the autonomous system", "political use of a public service", "prime political interests", "secession to globalism", "risks for our economic and social security", "sectorism", "model of income guarantee failed", "tool of government of the most recalcitrant past", "armed arm of Basque nationalism", "institutional destabilization of democracy", "secession to globalism", "risks for our economic and social security", "sectorism", "model of income guarantee failed", "tool of legal corruption", "armed arm of Basque nationalism", "institutional destabilization of the "institution of institutional purposes in the realignition"... And for the Socialists, Mrs Martínez, income guarantee income has been the best investment for Basque society to be a cohesive society, seeking, moreover, not the chronification of vulnerability, but the transition made a favorable situation for vulnerable people. His words and his amendment seek to repeal Basque policy. The Basque Socialists presented themselves to the elections last July with a very clear road map and it is also the one that we have transposed into the government agreement: guaranteeing the health of citizens, reactivating the economy and employment and leaving no one behind. And your contribution, Mrs Martínez, is to challenge politics, to practice the anti-system. You play to question the pillars of the democratic State, of the Constitution itself, because you do not share the autonomous State that is protected by the Spanish Constitution. Mrs Martínez, making other budgets and returning money to citizens, as you propose, is not the solution for citizens who have the right to a public and universal health care when they are ill, who have the right to a public and quality education and who have the right to social services when they are in a vulnerable situation. Populism is not the recipe that solves the problems that Basque citizenship has today. And Vox doesn't want to fight the crisis, what he wants is to take advantage of it through populism. After this amendment and the partial amendments which they have tabled, we still do not know the economic and social policy, the alternative, in short, from Vox to Euskadi. Only your defence of a uniform country, where there is no plurality, where there is no cultural diversity, where there is no linguistic wealth, where there is no political plurality, because for you the only valid way of thinking and living is yours and all those who do not fit your way of living or thinking are left. We are left in democratic Spain, we are left in Euskadi and even Euskadi is left for you. The Basque Socialists are in the antipodes of their line of thought. We do not share, Mr Martínez, his diagnosis or his prescriptions, his sensitivity to Spain or to Euskadi. That is why I finish my speech as I have begun, celebrating the antagonism of his vision of the public accounts of Euskadi by 2021 that the Basque Government has presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. At the time for answers, Miss Mist, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u11	Mrs. Corcuera, tell us that there is no obscurantism. We just have to look at the health news so we can see it. Having said that, I will not go into more detail than you have said. What I keep saying is that since Vox we say no to these budgets. Budgets, I repeat, that abound in social wear and tear, in allocating funds to an institutional architecture that completely overflows us and that, worse, does not bring significant improvements in the quality of life of people; it is more, on many occasions prevent them. I give you an example: when you spend your entire salary on paying mortgage or rent, what's going to happen is that money won't come for food, light and another set of basic services. The autonomies, that invention that has developed to unsuspected limits, is exactly that, a beautiful showcase for autonomous presidents with institutions and powers at their service, but which do not benefit society. There is no money for everything, and with the crisis of the covid it has become clear. It's not a minor matter. Our companies close and those that do not close are bought at a balance price by foreign capital, losing us any decision-making capacity. It is not that it is a scandal to be in debt, we have already said it on other occasions, that we see it necessary. In this thesis, the scandal is to get in debt and spend money on ancillary matters and not to protect our businesses and families. Today, actually, is a sad day for everyone. We have lost the opportunity to grasp our structural problems and put a stop to them, from the demographic challenge, through the oversized administration. And what have we met? Some European funds, Next Generation, that God knows how they're going to spend them. Nothing specific is yet specified in some accounts that we can say today that they are simply and plainly impossible to comply with. They said a few months ago: "End of austerity." I'll demand courage within a year when the message is touch tightening the belt, a belt that already has few holes left and with which they will end up cutting our breath. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u12	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u13	Thank you, President. Mrs Martínez, you and your group are against the state of autonomy and want to return to the structure of the state of the Franco era with the civil governors and with everything that this entails and represents of involution, without recognizing the progress of the state and of Spanish society, and in particular of Basque society. And it is no accident that Vox tries to challenge the state of autonomy, when it provides public services, health services, educational services, social services. You believe that the state and public intervention must be reduced to the minimum. That is why we have neither found nor will we find in the amendment as a whole, nor in its partial amendments, any proposal, any feasible and realistic solution that would benefit the general interest of Basque citizens. Socialists are proud to have defended freedoms, to have fought fascism, to have been able to adapt ourselves throughout our centuries of history to try to meet the challenges that Basque society has and has had. You, in your speech and in defending your amendment to the whole, have sought to make visible budgets that are alien to the development of a modern Basque society and that are prepared to face the great challenges and transformations that are being promoted in Europe and to which we from Euskadi aspire and in which we are ready to work as today's challenges in order to have a certain future. On the other hand, you not only do not share, but fight the backbones of constitutional policy: equality of opportunity, the right of everyone to think as they please, freedom to express it or freedom to develop their ideas. The Socialists reject the amendment to the whole of Vox because these are the budgets that propose solutions to the urgency of Basque citizenship and propose solutions to the needs and challenges of the future of our society; because they are progressive budgets; because they are budgets that promote the full equality of women; because they are budgets that start from the agreement between different parties and reflect the plurality and diversity of Euskadi; and because they represent exactly the opposite of sectarianism, inequality and populism. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadans has the word to defend his full correction. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Ladies and gentlemen, today I support the whole amendment that my group, the People's Party and Citizens, is submitting to these budgets. An amendment calling for the Government to be returned from this first budget of the legislature for redrafting. We do not believe that this is the best budget for the Basques in 2021, nor for the departments concerned in this budget. And speaking of departments, I take the floor when still, to the amazement of the citizens who listen to us, the health counselor remains in her position, without resigning and being stopped by the lehendakari. It has been days since either of those two decisions, and none of those decisions, were fully justified. You yourself, lehendakari, called your government honest, transparent and rigorous. I believe him. I believe him and he must put it into practice; he must put it into practice, because at this time the situation for the health counselor is unsustainable, because the counselor is under suspicion. And we are talking, Lehendakari, as you know, about the Health Council or the Health Council, which must ensure the health of Basques. The damage he does to that counseling is terrible, when dozens of Basques are dying from COVID-19 every week. And you see astonishments that PNV leaders have preferences for vaccines, and that the lady counselor lied in a crossfire between PNV members, don't forget, a crossfire between members of her political party. If you do not resign, you must cease it so that this does not squander on you, Mr. lehendakari. That is why I remind you, Lehendakari, that you presented the budget to the House after 20 December. They compared with a background of resignations at that time in Health that already produced a serious crisis, and they did so without knowing, in the absence of hours, what Christmas would be like or when the vaccine would arrive or what it would be from European funds. Five weeks after anyone can save themselves in Health, we have also witnessed the collapse of the department and the discontrol of the health management of your Government. Discontrol reported a few hours ago by which, we recall, she is still a Health Advisor in this very House. At this time, Osakidetza has gone from being a pride of our society to being discredited as an institution by the actions of health officials. And here we are, not knowing what this long winter will be like, but knowing that we are much worse than at Christmas, in the midst of a pandemic. With falsehoods, more resignations, secret vaccinations, health scandals, vaccinations slower than most, and in total opacity about the vaccination plan, which may not exist or exist for some more than for others. To get the full picture, the X-ray, one must add to the daily mess of the famous co-governance or co-decision in relation to the European funds, with approaches as surrealistic as that of the PNV, which demands direct relationship with the European Union to discuss the list of projects. And they regret, of course, discussing them through Spain. As if the Basques could receive something from Europe without being part of Spain. Between those appearances and this debate, we received the economic and social reality bath of the close of 2020. A bath of reality that we do not want nor can we leave aside: tens of thousands sick, 3,000 dead by the pandemic, 15,000 unemployed more in Euskadi, almost 21,500 Basque affiliates less Social Security and another 41,000 Basque workers in ERTE, with 30% less signed contracts. The worst, you know, for hospitality: 7,800 members less, more than a third of the total; six out of ten aid applicants, not charged on 25 January, by the way. And for young people, our young people, with a 36% increase in the number of unemployed. By the way, 2020 has meant the loss of all the jobs created in 2018 and 2019, with a return to 2017 figures. This reality is our reference in this debate, because a budget is the translation into figures of a political programme. Therefore, saving lives and jobs is our priority. And besides, our program says so, and it should be from any responsible administration. We need a budget to deal with the pandemic and its social and economic effects. And this, as I said at the beginning, is not. What has Mr Azpiazu presented to us today, here, by Mr Urkullu's government? They have presented us with a false and false budget from the first line of the text, Mr Azpiazu, because, for starters, the budget does not cover the entire revenue and expenditure of the Basque Government in 2021. It includes forecasts already exceeded by reality, such as the collection of outlaws, which feeds this budget through contributions. I would remind you that, on the same day as the deadline for amendments, you reviewed the forecasts for the growth of the Basque economy by 2021 and cut it, as you will recall, by 0.3. Well, that cut also means a drop in the foral collection. The revenues will be lower than those we are debating today and you, with your majority, will approve. On the other hand, other income, that of European funds, does not exist in their accounts. However, it seems clear that Euskadi will receive 426 million from the REACT-EU fund over the next two years, a fund dedicated to education, health and social services, which we will receive in part in 2021 and which they do not mention. Another is the Next Generation funds, of which, according to the days, we expect to receive between 5,000 and 8 billion. A lot of projects selected in a more or less opaque way, but not a cent in the budget, not a cent in the budget. But they have not forgotten, indeed, to include articles and entire pages of provisions that leave the Government free for the future incorporation of those billions. And I repeat, billions of European funds. In fact, an authorization to do literally what you want or want, not to apply the Budget Law, for the reallocation of funds and limits between current spending and investment, approves this House whatever it approves. No parliamentary controls, therefore, on European funds. And also free disposal, as surplus, of the amounts budgeted and finally financed from these European funds. That is why we say that it is a false budget, because it does not include all the expenditure and all the revenue that should have an annual budget; and false, because from the first day they can mock what this House approves without effective limits. Our amendments therefore set limits on the transfer of funds between current expenditure and investment. And we demand, in relation to the European funds, their inclusion in the budgets, effective parliamentary control of their management, full respect for the Law on Budgetary Regime and accountability of the Basque Government to the House. None of this exists today in this bill, and we all know that these are too serious things to look away while you make public money cape and say. In 2021, moreover, his accounts reach us extraordinarily, we can say, conditioned. Especially conditioned by their pacts with the Sánchez-Iglesias Government, pacts that perhaps explain uncertainties, improvisations, when not servitudes before the gates of Illa or Sánchez. Both in Madrid and here in Vitoria we find the same partners and negotiators, more or less clumsy, of previous pacts and with different responsibilities in each executive and in each chamber. But the same political forces, the same deck of four sticks: PNV, PSOE, Bildu and Podemos share the support. Beyond this, any possibility of agreement or negotiation is vetoed. We know. We know that our amendment represents the only real alternative to your budgets, because you all support Mr Sánchez's accounts and management, that management that weighs so much on this budget by aggravating every day the economic and social crisis that also makes its effects felt on the economic and social fabric of our land. Their pacts may favor some interest of the PNV, but we are very clear that the general interest of the Basques and of the Spanish as a whole does not go beyond supporting the Sánchez-Iglesias tandem. This very limited and predetermined negotiation, in fact, incorporates in Euskadi the most worrying features of the management of that Government. These conditions have, and will have, concrete effects. The first, for example, will be no tax reform or tax reduction. This is what Mr Azpiazu solemnly announced in this House. It does not matter that they agreed with the PP in the budgets for 2019 with the commitment, remember, to implement it in 2020. They failed him, as they failed everything with Podemos last year. If not, let them tell you. It does not matter that Spain is a unique case in Europe, rising taxes in the midst of the pandemic. You, lehendakari, follow the path set by your partner, Mr. Sánchez. We continue to argue that today, even more than in 2019, a tax reform, a tax reform that, as in all of Europe, leaves more resources in the hands of Basque families, is essential. A reform that boosts economic recovery and also helps save jobs. A reform, by the way, which would benefit the sectors hardest hit by the crisis. And I am referring to the hoteliers, the merchants, the self-employed, the SMEs, who would see their disposable income increased. That's how we'll keep defending him. And you know it, that being part of an alliance with those partners incapable of the Basque Nationalist Party to agree on a serious and effective tax reform, or perhaps you have never wanted to do so either. Another concrete effect of their pacts, another example, is harassment of the agreed centres. They said that the Celaá Law would have no impact on Euskadi. False. The PNV has not only voted for the law, but has been rooting with the concerted centres for years. Just like we're talking primary, high school, baccalaureate, special education or FP. And now, passed that sectarian Celaá Law, finds no reason to increase the amount of the operating and maintenance module per classroom. That module, which has been frozen for more than a decade, is not going to go up in the year 2021 either. From our People's and Citizens' Party coalition, with our amendments, we demand you to keep your word, to ensure that there will be no impact of the Celaá Law on the student, on the concerted centres and on the Basque families who choose these centres for their children, who are not four, but that they are half of the total, as you know, lehendakari, almost one out of every two Basque pupils. Not only is it a question of approving many programs – which of course must be done – anti-pandemic programs in the centers, it would be missing more, of course it must be done. What is at stake is the health of our children, too, but, in addition, we have to recover those ten long years of freezing of the operation and maintenance module. And I believe that even Mr Azpiazu is aware that the 2008 or 2010 amounts do not allow the centres to meet the needs of 2021. And when the endowments for one of the networks supported with public funds are strengthened, the public network, and they are cut for the other, the concerted one, what they do is to discriminate in half – as I said before – of Basque citizenship. That is why we have proposed a 5% increase in these modules by 2021. It seems clear, therefore, that from the Sánchez-Iglesias government and its pacts everything bad is stuck, always to the detriment of the Basques, and with the vote of the Basque Nationalist Party. That's why this budget is fake, constant. The Jultarian party is conditioned by the friends of Sánchez-Iglesis, and superfluous to face the pandemy and the sodium of its influence. The popular Party-Ciudadananos corrections are the only real alternative to budgets: it is directed to save the lives and stations which have in their health investments, taxes, subjugates, and subjugates made. Our proposal, too, favors the most injured sectors, foresees a rescue plan, encourages labor and family colicion, and supplies it to the officials. Having said all that, what have you done? And what would we do from the coalition? What is the alternative from the People's-Citizens Coalition to this budget? First, the budget favours the Government. It's almost embarrassing to say this, but you've started by climbing the ground, raised high-ranking positions, advisors and other digital appointments, almost 300 people. And at three months, in a year with negative inflation, the salary rises by 0.9 %. We don't know if it's a bonus for good management or an incentive to improve, but it's indefensible. The alternative is clear: limitation. We propose 200 senior positions and advisers without pay increases in 2021, neither for them nor for members of the Government. And a ban on agreed compensation for managers of public bodies and companies, a ban that we have been demanding for many years. That it existed, you remember, and that you inexplicably now refuse to implant again. In something so elementary, we hope that the amendments we shall be proposing will be accepted. Second. Your budget raises the tax burden. In other words, it penalizes workers in the private sector and the sectors most hit by the pandemic. Sectors that are slow to receive the promised aid, always far from the necessary amounts. The self-employed have seen their social security contributions increased at the beginning of the year by the Sánchez e Iglesias Government, with the support of the Basque Nationalist Party. And the Basque Government also increases the tax burden on its accounts, raises the amount of numerous fees and maintains the water canon in terms of more than dubious legality, encouraging waste and price increases to the punished Basque families. Our response to so much nonsense knows it: the impulse of a real tax reform through an agreement with political forces and outlaws, as I have explained before; no rate in the Budgets Act and, which would also entail the elimination of the water canon. And, in addition, I support, therefore, the sectors hardest hit by the crisis, which would be the first beneficiaries of this tax reform. Our amendments give concrete expression to the support for those sectors on which the crisis is taking place, as I said before, especially in the areas of hospitality, self-employment, commerce, SMEs, tourism and culture. We need a real rescue plan for the hospitality. We have included 70 million more, in order to reach the 200 million we have proposed during these months. Another 65 million should go to direct aid, or investment by self-employed people, and another 14 million to traders, who are going through the worst discounts after the worst year in many decades. And Basque families must also be taken into account, with growing problems for the reconciliation of working life and the care of their children. Here too, on this subject, we have proposed an increase of 8.5 million. Let us hope that you will be able to develop the programs and bring the money to the families. Because by 2020, let's see, almost EUR 30 million for family policies have been closed in the drawer. And it won't have been for lack of need. Third. Its budget penalizes staff members. Those officials who have wanted to bear responsibility for the shameful delay in the vaccination plan. And, no doubt, its budget does not comply with agreements with certain collectives, and it maintains the suspension of its rights in relation to forced retirement or the possibility of extending active service beyond the retirement age. We have simply proposed the deletion of those provisions in the text which, in our view, violates those rights. Fourth. Your budget does not address the reform of our hypertrophied public sector. I have criticized the continuity of current expenditure before, but we must go further. We need, as a matter of urgency, to lose weight, to rationalise a public sector that cuts our budgets, and that is not based on the principles of efficiency and efficiency. The missed opportunity I spoke of earlier is more evident when one enters the dense forest of societies, entities or foundations that depend on this budget. And even worse is the printing before matches, dependencies or programs of exclusive partisan interest, when not sectarian. Some are very deficient in their task; others, on the other hand, do not do so. In some cases it is not very clear what they do, or compete unfairly with the private sector. If we study the budgets, we find that many are justified only by the payment of their salaries, and others, in short, follow a strict nationalist perspective, developed and driven by public funds – then we talk about embassies and other things. Here we have to open the debate on these issues and we have to rethink the future of so many structures or programmes, which are clearly improveable. Do you really believe that it is justifiable to inaugurate, as I told you before, new embassies, new representations of the Basque Government abroad in 2021, with which it is falling? What has been the performance all these years in which they already exist? Are we really going to keep sending money to Ikastolas in France as if we were an NGO, helping in a country in trouble from that NGO? Would it not be preferable to improve the English level of our students and provide more money for those sections? Is there really nothing better to do? Or send money to Lanbide...? Mrs Mendia, I'm sorry you're not here, I'm talking about Lanbide, yes, a Basque employment service of legendary incompetence for its leadership, structures and means, not for its workers, eye! The same Lanbide for whose reform we have spent half a million euros and which you are now going to put that reform in a drawer. Can you throw away public money like that? Do you really think it's enough to make up a little what we already have? I do not forget Lanbide's trajectory in the management of social assistance, hundreds of millions unduly paid, i.e. paid to those who were not entitled, instead of those who needed it on this land. I also don't forget its disastrous balance during the pandemic and the frustration of its users. Nor do I forget the recent demand for thousands of GIR returns when I had already prescribed the deadline. For things not very different the Dutch Government has just fallen into full swing, as you know. And, really, on another subject, do you also think that nothing needs to be done at Euskal Irrati Telebista? No change? Do you think that the loss of 150 million a year can be justified, which would be like three senates, for example, in the present situation? I mean, we're talking about 400,000 euros a day of public money going through that sink; I repeat, 400,000 euros each and every day of the year. ETB, in particular, is a television that we pay all Basques, that we see some, and that serves the interests of even less. It is probably the most sectarian biased public medium in all of Spain. But if we are two million Basques, each of us contributes 75 euros a year in taxes to keep Euskal Irrati Telebista. At my house it would be 300 euros a year. It's a lot of money to keep a TV that's a ruin. The reform that you are not prepared to tackle is no longer possible. We want a television at the service of all Basques, with a reasonable cost and a quality that justifies their existence. We don't have any of that today, just a black hole devouring voracious public resources. And so we could continue to degenerate – we will see in the debates in committee – a whole rosary of economic dislates and management dislates that your government seems to have no intention of rectifying. We do. We have made an effort to identify the disposable current expenditure and also the sinks of public funds in our Administration. We have focused on certain items, expenditure programmes, entities or societies whose reform is indefatigable, whose reform is, I would say, a demand and a social need. The citizens can no longer be fooled. That is why, through more than 800 amendments, we have reallocated more than 400 million expenditure, directing it to our fundamental objective, which is to save lives and is employment. What do we propose to do, then, with these 400 million euros? To direct them, as I said, to that goal: to save lives and jobs. That means tackling the present situation; defining and implementing the vaccination campaign at once; preparing for a difficult and very demanding future, even more demanding for an ageing society like ours, because it will take several years – the entire legislature, unfortunately – to recover and recover the path of employment for the new generations, and much more to lift the debt slab that comes upon us. That's why it's important to spend well and avoid waste. Where do we think the accent should be, then? First, in saving lives; we will all agree, healing. To start with, it would take what we don't have: a counselor with credibility and the ability to manage such a fundamental department. But it is also necessary to strengthen and support Basque health, for which we have proposed increases of more than EUR 100 million. It is essential to strengthen staff with recruitments amounting to 40 million euros. The primary care centres and closed CAPs in Deusto and San Martín should be the main beneficiaries of this. The heavy vaccination campaign and the situation of primary care in the third wave of the pandemic have once again made this clear. Also in 2021 we should be able to implement outstanding investments in health centres and hospitals, for an additional 20 million; to strengthen the health transport network in the three territories, 5.6 million; and to make available to Health all the resources required under the COVID headings. That is why we have increased them by 21 million, which are much better in the hands of the department than in that drawer of several that we call "expenditure from various departments", as you know. And it is not possible to postpone the creation of a school nurse program. In view of the picture, each centre should have such support, which strengthens prevention and responsiveness to possible outbreaks of the pandemic in the centres. What we propose is the launch of a pilot programme for the 2021-2022 course with €3.7 million. Finally, it seems to us to be a matter of sensitivity to strengthen mental health as well. Just step on the street and know how the pandemic has unfortunately affected many of our fellow citizens, who demand help a year later. These are complicated moments and many Basques, like so many other people around the world, will need the help of specialized professionals. We believe that this 10 million item is clearly a necessary social and health expenditure. By the way, even if it's not a Health Department issue, if we're talking about saving lives... It is about to be a year after the collapse of the Zaldibar landfill, the same time that Joaquín Beltrán's body has been buried there. We do not want the tragedy to repeat itself, and that is why we have raised the need for an external audit of all similar landfills in Euskadi – I believe there are twelve and a half. We want to be sure that your situation has nothing to do with what caused the catastrophe twelve months ago. Secondly, strengthen the budget to save jobs, to save them today and better deal with recovery in the coming years. That means more money in education, employment and productive investment. I have already referred to education in talking about concerted education, but supporting families and preparing for the future requires more. It requires, of course, progress in the gratuitousness of haur-eskolak – the gratuitousness of the 0-3 cycle has educational implications – and also in the reconciliation of family life. That is why we have proposed that more than EUR 6 million be earmarked for this purpose. It does not seem questionable that encouraging English is a key element for the future employment of our young people and for their competitiveness. We want to reinforce this objective with 10 million euros and we have also proposed the creation of programmes of educational innovation, robotics, programming, STEAM initiatives... that expand and diversify the training provided by our school and expand the future employability of students. We cannot wait until the end of recovery to launch these programmes. It is now that they can give new impetus to our society, especially the younger ones. I have already talked about measures to support the sectors hardest hit by the pandemic, but in the area of employment and entrepreneurship, let me tell you that the task is more complex than treating short-term aid as important as it is. We have here reported increases of more than €70 million to be managed mostly by Lanbide. It is out of the question that Lanbide is not able to face this challenge, so we must, in fact, start with its reform and profound transformation. In any case, it is time to give strong support to special employment centres, to promote innovative projects that need development support, to promote initiatives to improve the employability of our young people and groups with special difficulties on our land and to create programmes to facilitate the return to the labour market of over 45 years of age and women. These are sectors that with the pandemic have seen their jobs evaporate and the possibility of recovering them in the medium term, as you know. Finally, the budget must give strong support to productive investment, not to the creation of public chiringuitos to place friends on the finger, but to initiatives emerging from our industrial sector or services seeking the transformation that digitisation represents for so many sectors of activity. We have set aside EUR 18 million for this purpose. They would be aimed at innovation in industrial projects, because we are thinking about the weight of the automotive sector or, in particular, that of the aeronautical sector, which we consider strategic, or about the impetus of new patents and artificial intelligence initiatives. And, also, something essential to avoid new territorial and social gaps in our country, we cannot leave the small municipalities behind. Digitization, a key to non-personal education or teleworking, must also reach smaller populations, because it is a deficiency that we were all able to detect during the pandemic. Remedy requires public support, probably with joint programmes of municipalities, outlaws and the Basque Government. You know that, and we wanted to give specific support to the social economy with EUR 4 million. Once the new law has been adopted, it cannot be forgotten for budgetary purposes. Developing the law's predictions requires not only normative elements, but economic support. Finally, public investment, infrastructure and equipment projects. Our partial amendments incorporate 150 million in Chapters 6 and 7. I have talked about investment in hospitals or support for investments in sectors abused by the pandemic. I would also like to highlight, because it is an important project, 3 million dedicated to the urban regeneration project Via Irún, a project of enormous impact for that city. But in the area of investment, what is really important, the urgent thing I would say, is to improve the levels of implementation of these items. You know, in 2020 you have barely reached 50%, you have barely been able to spend one in two euro budgeted, and the most worrying thing is that it is not a very different figure than in recent years. This has been the case with the Basque Y management commission, around 50% of the budgeted. I mean, we don't run even when we fund the Cup discount. And if we talk about the southern railway variant, it's worse: less than 20%. It is as if the investment commitments of the Basque Government are always postponed. If we add to this that every month of government of Pedro Sánchez, with the support of the PNV, has been a month late in the Basque Y, the panorama is already complete. It went from 2023 to 2025, and now we don't even know for when the access to capital will remain in their new pacts with their new partners. And we talk, don't forget, about the most important investment in our history. I'm just finishing up, Mrs. President. So far the reasons why we have amended the draft budgets in full. Our arguments are limbs for the reworking that we request if the return is approved. Their accounts, as I said, are clearly better, they are not the project that Euskadi needs, they do not have the ambition and priorities that Basque society demands. That is why I call for the House's support for our amendment, so that you will have an opportunity to reconsider and rework your accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u16	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. In the opposite round, the Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u17	Thank you, President. Mr Iturgaiz, the Basque Socialists share the Government's negative assessment following the meeting with you on 12 January, when after three-quarters of an hour of meeting, it concluded without any options to continue negotiating, due to the closure of the Basque People's-Citizens parliamentary group to negotiate and discard any possibility of rapprochement. A very negative assessment if we add to it the fact that, in addition to not making any proposals for improvement or modification to the budget, at that time they advanced the presentation of an amendment to the whole, after showing their conviction that the Executive had already closed a budgetary pact with another group. We then start from their refusal to negotiate anything, not talk. And in this case, the justification was to have a budgetary pact with another group. A pact, moreover, already closed. And you have begun the full-fledged parliamentary term, because where do you see the budgetary agreement with another parliamentary group for these 2021 budgets? Your amendment to the whole, Mr Iturgaiz, brings us back to those presented in the last parliamentary term. So much so that the only developments in this amendment with respect to the 2020 budgets are the heading "it's a false budget" and they don't speak of the Finkatuz fund. The other justifications are the same, in the wording and in the contents, in both amendments, for times that are different. Thus, for their amendment in the 2020 budgets, the basic agreement Basque-Euskal Party Herria Bildu was justified in the political sphere. Now it's the Sanchez-Iglesias pact. They planned for 2020 to increase and consolidate current expenditure, and, in its current amendment, in addition to indicating that the budget is continuous and does not deal with the pandemic, they point out that it increases and consolidates current expenditure. They said of the 2020 budgets that they penalized private sector workers, and of the 2021 budgets that it is a budget that favors the government and penalizes private sector workers. They said more than a year ago that the rise of taxes, fees, was being promoted, they were talking about the canon of water. And now they say that the budget increases the fiscal pressure on citizens and they talk, of course, about the water canon. They noted in their 2020 amendment that the budget created new rights for senior government officials and officials continued to be penalized. Now, in this amendment as a whole, it is said that this is a budget that penalizes officials. They said there was no simplification of the Basque public sector. They now point out that this is a budget in which the public sector is left, and that its reform is not addressed. Its amendment to the entire past legislature was also justified in cuts in concerted education. Now they say that the budgets for 2021 are budgets that discriminate against concerted education in the midst of the pandemic. And they update the paragraph saying that this is a budget that is aligned with the Celaá Law. That must be very bad, because the Wert Law – with which you were aligned in the previous budgets – has never been a law answered, has always been a peaceful and, moreover, neutral law in Euskadi and Spain. Anyway. Even in the justification of its budgetary alternative, the text is almost the same or similar to that presented in the amendment to the whole of the 2020 budgets. Then you pointed out as an alternative the rigour in spending, the increase in investment, the support to SMEs and entrepreneurs to create stable and quality employment, and budgets with well managed public services. This new amendment to the whole of the 2021 budgets considers as a budgetary priority the investment effort and, again, the rigour in spending. And if I have stopped in this comparison it is to show you the low level of vision of your group to the situation we are experiencing, when they have preferred to prioritize the partisan strategy established by their respective parties and not to participate with contributions to strengthen necessary policies in the current social, political and economic circumstances that we are living. Not only do you not make a realistic diagnosis of the situation, but you also follow these partisans who practice in other territories, looking for banal and uncertain excuses to refuse, first, to budgetary negotiation, and then, in the literature of your amendment, putting in place an absolutely frantic policy, calling for the return of budgets that are not only important to combat the pandemic, but that are essential to get out of the health and economic crisis as a society, moreover, strengthened and cohesive socially, economically and territorially. The Basque Socialists, Mr Iturgaiz, are going to vote against the amendment to the whole of their parliamentary group for a number of reasons. First, because our no to its amendment is a yes to essential budgets in order to meet the three priority objectives of the government agreement between Basque Nationalists and Socialists: to guarantee the health of citizens, economic recovery and to regain employment in Basque, without leaving anyone behind. And we are going to reject your amendment as a whole because these budgets, with their more than EUR 12,442 million, allow us to face this year 2021 and the beginning of this budgetary and political legislature with sufficient force to deal with the economic and health crisis generated by the pandemic, also settling the present, but also looking to the future with certainty and budgetary stability. They are expansive, yes, and powerful budgets, but also budgets drawn up from responsibility and rigour in budgetary management. And we will reject this amendment as a whole because these budgets are the first budgets of this XII legislature that endorse a clear road map in the face of the pandemic and the health and economic crisis. The unprecedented situation we are experiencing requires a health response and incentives for economic activity cooperation. These budgets will allow us to face and adapt to the reality in which we live, as well as to face the challenges that we as a country had before the pandemic, which has only intensified. Budgets also represent the idea of conceiving this crisis as a moment of opportunity to address challenges in energy-ecological transformation, digital transformation and the need to strengthen the resilience of our welfare state, and to mitigate the inequalities that every crisis generates. In these budgets, the bet on the value of the public, both in its entrepreneurial and protective facets, has become perfectly visible. And it is visible how we have established a public spending strategy to get out of the current crisis as soon as possible and to do so with stronger, more competitive pillars and greater social cohesion. For this reason, these budgets express the commitment to the deployment of public policies with greater leverage capacity and a greater multiplier effect on the economy as a whole in the short and medium term. And I make special reference to this fact because it seems that what bothers you, Mr Iturgaiz, and what distils your amendment as a whole, is an aversion to the public and to social protection. I said this more than a year ago to your parliamentary group, and I repeat it again because of the coincidence of both amendments: they talk about the officials as if they were not the teachers and Andreeños who teach in our schools, the medical and nursing staff who care for us in outpatient clinics and hospitals, the inertzainas who look after our safety. And they talk about increases in the amounts of the GIR, of that 1.8% – twice as much of the public salaries – as if the income-guarantee earners were subject to suspicion of wanting to live without work, forgetting that the fourth part are pensioners and a fifth are poor workers, and that the majority of the rest of the earners enter and exit the protection network to the extent that they are offered opportunities. Collecting income guarantee income is no chollo, no lottery, and that's why there are 10,000 families less than five years ago depending on this benefit. Today the highest percentage of income-guarantee earners, Mr Iturgaiz, are indigenous people, and mostly women, who aspire not to see their situation chronicled, aspire to leave that income-guarantee income benefit, that subjective right, and to earn a decent living working. And a couple more notes, which are recurring for your group: concerted education and taxation. You place your high educational priority in concerted education, do not place it in the Basque educational system. Concerted education is playing an important role in a system that guarantees quality public education, either directly or through concerted centres that have been able to gain social peace in the sector for over a year now, after many months of conflict and collective bargaining – that valuable tool that was buried in the labor reform that you made and that must be recovered, because it focuses on achieving and consolidating labour and wage rights. And they've earned that social peace... and the People's and Citizens' Party, in this case its parliamentary group, once again intends to introduce elements of distortion by questioning the budget, when there is no reason for it, because you too, when making budgetary pacts, supported this situation. Regarding taxation, they reiterate a lie about the commitment to review the agreement signed in 2017. They know that this review was to be done after an evaluation of the results in 2020. Here the only non-compliance that took place was that of the People's Party when, a few months later, the agreement signed by Elkarrekin Podemos and Euskal Herria Bildu broke in Álava the fiscal harmonization to which they had committed themselves. And, in other words, I would like to make a special reference to the first justification of your amendment to the whole, which you consider to be a false budget, because the statement of expenditure does not include any heading relating to European funds to combat COVID-19, when you yourself in that amendment speak of probability and uncertainty in the exercise. And I would also like to record in the minutes of today's sitting what was said both in the presentation of the Economic and Financial Adviser on the strategic lines and what he explained for these 2021 budgets also on the occasion of the full monograph we kept in November on the European funds and their additionality to these budgets, when the undeniable impact on the budget document of the receipt of European funds once they are implemented is pointed out. This bill is articulated in a chapter V with eight articles specifically related to the management of the Next Generation EU funds. It is this Budget Act that is responsible for the completion of the bridge for the insertion of these funds into the Basque accounts, with a separate and immediate identification for the transparent follow-up of the Next Generation funds, and a multi-departmental program that incorporates the new projects linked to the Next Generation recovery and resilience plan can be created – and the law says so – by the Department of Economy and Finance. You, with your amendment to the whole, are seeking the return of budgets that include a COVID programme for health, of 185 million euros, to strengthen staff in health centres, ambulances, investments, health equipment and pharmacy. In addition, they want to return budgets that have, for Education, 95.6 million in reinforcement staff, in educational concerts, in protection materials and in teachers; a COVID fund of 32.2 million euros to cover the lines of financing of support to small and autonomous enterprises; almost 30 million for family reconciliation; 16.2 million in rental aid; for the operating deficit of Eusko Trenbideak; 15.2 million euros for Commerce and Tourism; 7.4 million euros in Lanbide, of which 6.7 million will complement the ERTE, and thus up to 542 million of the COVID-2021 programme, which you intend to return. You do not intend with your amendment to return 530... Forgive me, you intend to return with your amendment 535, almost EUR 536 million for R & D in the 2021 budgets, in a key year for innovation and for digital transformation and innovative entrepreneurship. You intend to return accounts in which eight out of every ten euros are allocated to social expenditure. You intend to return education budgets that account for 25% of the total Euskadi budget. And you intend to return some accounts that go to Health 1,902 euros per person. We are facing a decisive and exceptional budgetary exercise, not only for emergencies, but also for the challenges of the future in the short and medium term, because we are laying the budgetary foundations for the whole legislature. The challenge is enormous. The Basque Socialists have committed themselves to overcoming this by reincorporating the more than 15,000 people who have lost their jobs because of COVID-19 through a two-year plan that will focus on issues such as training, entrepreneurship and adaptation of unemployed people to new opportunities. Finally, a number of sections of the items. They all set up budgets for the future. But you made it very clear on January 12. They had no pretension to negotiate and less to agree. And that requires the Basque Socialists, in this case, to reject the amendment to the whole, Mr Iturgaiz, which you have tabled, which, moreover, on the basis of data that are not true, is only intended to sow uncertainty, gloomyness and frantism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chiefs, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Thank you, chief physician, for all your explanations and all your team, for all the explanations you've given us today and in the previous scenes, and especially for the work and effort you've done. These are the first budgets of this legislation prepared from this difficult context of 2020 years. Although the financial, sanitary, and social conditions are difficult, the government has presented bold, extensive budgets, betling in health, education, and social protection. And, yes, I shall continue in this soliloquio, because it is true, and it has been objectively so. I do not go out of my surprise when I have read all the corrections of all the opposition groups, when we have before us the boldest Basque budgets and the most important of the past times, especially when we are surrounded by the difficult situation we have. And I mean, quaantitatively and quaalitatively, that we have brave budgets. Commantitatively, for 2021, the budget is $1.442 million euros, which have been raised to 770 million euros more than 2020. And I don't care what percentage and so on the sterile comparisons that are here to-day, the execution, the comparison. In objective comparison, up to 7,1% and 770 million at real expense. Isn't this where we're brave? Isn't it extensive? And I said there's a quantum too. Because we have budgets in front of the night's health and economic crisis, to protect our welfare system, to maintain education and to ensure our health, so that we can face the serious situation in which we are, to ensure social policies, without leaving anyone behind us. So these budgets, too, have an important message. A bet for the Basques, the budget to move forward. There will be resources between us to get out of this difficult situation. We send a message to society: We're at work, and we have budget and resources to move forward with responsibilities and goodgestio. It's a pity the opposition teams hadn't seen this opportunity and didn't realize our political responsibility. We had the opportunity to send a united message to society, and the opposition refused to interfere. It's not the time for deviatory politics and confessional politics, it's the time for us to demonstrate the union. Furthermore, the opposition must be aware that our draft budgets have the backing of the social majority. It is not, Mr Iturgaiz, a question of whether or not they are nationalist budgets. Citizenship has been committed to our program, our project and our model. It's time for you to assume. And, assuming it, we can build more and better, all and all rowing in the same direction. The Government is and has been willing to negotiate so that political parties with less representation, such as its own, can translate its proposals into the presented draft, without obviously implying a break in our model and a paradigm shift. The Basque Government has met with all the parties to negotiate, and has negotiated with those parties that have not self-excluded at the first meeting, as is that of your coalition, Mr Iturgaiz. At the first negotiating meeting, his group was self-excluded by opening the conversation with phrases such as: "We are going to present an amendment to the whole and because it is also known that they have a pre-cooked agreement with the Elkarrekin Podemos group." See you, as pythons you have no price. Is this a negotiating position of a political group? Were you willing to come to an agreement? Obviously not. And another example of his disposition is his interventions, Mr Iturgaiz, saying that the People-Citizens group will be the dyke to nationalism. I wish the picture changed. I understand the role of the opposition. All the parties in this House have experience of this, but I would encourage you, at a social and economic juncture like the current one, to turn away sterile and constant criticism and absurd political confrontation, because I am sure that, if you wanted, this budget would contain areas in which you might have felt represented, not certainly being your proposal. It would have been a good thing to send out the message of broader covenants. Society needs solutions, and the tool of all governments is the budget. I am aware that all the parties in the House do not see it the same. Some tend more to "embleguism", even more so when I read the amendment to the whole of the People's-Citizens' Group, which classifies these budgets as false, Mr Iturgaiz, an objective that is all the less curious, but far from reality. I'm going to offer you certain data, with cash and ringing numbers. Budgets that include strong growth in Health and Education, with increases of 236 million and 169 million, respectively. Flaco favor you do to Basque society by underestimating the current expenditure that these public services actually entail: health and education. Because yes, Osakidetza involves current expenditure at budgetary level; and it is not that it is maintained, it is that this budget increases it, without any doubt. We do so very conscious in the midst of the health crisis. Another fact is that the COVID programme, with EUR 542 million, is distributed in different departments, so that, among other measures, there will be staff reinforcements in health and educational centres. The SME financial programme and stimulus programme for various sectors. And I'm going on. More public investment, 955 million, increasing by 6.4%. And more R & D spending, 535 million, increasing by 9.7%. And not just that. Social expenditure will absorb 77.8% of the budget this year. Again, yes, I repeat to make it clear, almost eight out of every ten euros are spent on health, education, employment and social policies. Mr Iturgaiz, recognizing the knowledge at European level of members of your coalition, it is incomprehensible that you argue the falseness of these budgets because they do not incorporate European funds. Some funds, by the way, which even Europe has not yet approved in its Parliament, funds for which the Spanish State has not yet submitted its recovery, transformation and resilience plan, or even its governance. But I want to reassure you, Euskadi has a program of your own that you know: Euskadi Next. We are prepared that, at the moment when we have more certainty, the resources that come to us will be integrated into your budget. Our game is not to make cards castles. We are more than building on solid foundations and working with rigour, certainty and honesty; false expectations, the just. You are well aware that funds linked to the Next Generation cannot finance actions already covered in the regular budget, nor can they finance current expenditure. Additionality criterion. And that's what's been done. But it is also that, unless you tell me that you can quantify the amount of MRR funds that Euskadi will receive, and for which projects, it is not possible to enter a figure at this time. False, Mr Iturgaiz, is to classify these budgets as false. You're talking about out-of-date forecasts. Again, his python facet. As verified, the prediction tools used by the Basque Government show that they are effective. It is only to be seen that the estimate of the fall of the economy in Euskadi is only 6 tenths away from the closing figure, which has been 9,5 %. Perhaps the effort and work of all the professionals behind these estimates should be valued. Even more so in such an unstable economic situation. They further indicate that it is a budget conditioned by pacts with the Sánchez-Iglesias Government. Of course, our policies – and obviously this budget – have contributions from the Socialist Party, because, together with the Basque Nationalist Party, we are the parties that support this government. I think the Churches have already anticipated the events. From what I see here today, and I hope we can change your opinion during this debate and next day 11, we have not managed to reach an agreement even though it has been attempted. Another adjective you have used to refer to these budgets is that they are continuous. And for that, I'd like to discuss the budgets that have been laid out since 2013. Let's see what this consinetism is about. If we compare President Urkullu's budget, 2013 budgets with these 2021 budgets, we can see the increase of 33%, at the expense of over 3.126 million more. And compareing it with the 2020s, as I said before, it's been 7%.1, 770 million at real expense. The figures speak for themselves. I, perhaps, if I may, would make a tinge: they are continuous budgets in the increase of investment and public spending. We'll stay on that line. You were part of Euskadi's 2017 and 2018 budgets. And we thank you for your contributions for the common good. Because, that a government has approved budgets, it benefits society, its economic development and the creation of employment. I invite you not to lose the north. You also refer to tax reform, and you accuse us of failing to comply with our agreements with you on this matter. Perhaps, since you and I were not in this Parliament in the last parliamentary term, you missed certain nuances of the agreements; I have reviewed them. And, look, not half a comma has been breached, because the agreements talk about a tax review. And it was done in 2017, and it will be done again, as we have said on numerous occasions and reflected in our government program. Except in these debates, I rarely hear any criticism in this regard. For something it will be. A fact that I will clarify to you and your group. They cite in their amendment to the whole the low implementation of the budget. Mr Iturgaiz, overall budgetary implementation has always been around 97-98% in ordinary situations. We are one of the autonomous communities that performs the most expenditure execution in the State. Identical execution also in primary care. But they criticise it again, knowing that if any investment in 2020 – for example, in primary care – has not been implemented, it is because of administrative issues, as is the case, for example, of the Sociosanitary Pharmacy of Galdakao, as a result of the appeals lodged both to the specification and to the award. But we will continue with our plan, because Osakidetza, for the sake of improving the quality of its services, well deserves it. And so the citizens value the management of the crisis in the last survey available in the full pandemic, evaluating in 8.2 out of 10 the care of Osakidetza, and in 6.4 the actions of the Basque Government in this health crisis, compared to 5.5, of the Spanish Government, or the suspension of the European Union, with a 4.9. They know that the model works, and so does the citizenry. Therefore, do not try, with specific issues that have been mentioned again today, to overwhelm the great work of thousands of professionals. I would be grateful if you could redirect your efforts and not harm the Government with any misfortune. That is why, clearly and categorically, we say no to your amendment as a whole, because, as we have seen, it is full of false arguments. You know that bold budgets are presented for the moment when it is up to us to live. Call them nationalists, and also socialists, if I may. They are courageous budgets to successfully address the challenges that came from the past, and the new ones that will be presented to us. Challenges, such as ecological energy transformation, digital transformation and entrepreneurship, or R & D. Chapters, all, with strong increases in their departures, signal that the Government is firmly committed to them. And I just give you a few examples: 5.3% of the total budget, the Department of Economic Development, 26 million euros for digital transformation and entrepreneurship, adding the 106 million of the multi-annual digitalisation plan to the Department of Education, and an increase in R & D & I spending by 9.7%. The demographic challenge, the educational model and the families, which you also quote. The question of the educational model: I don't think what is relevant is how much is funded for the concerted and how much for the public. We have to look further and face reality, which is the demographic challenge. The Basque Government will adopt an integral perspective, going beyond birth or rural reality. Basque society needs to rejuvenate, adapt to the most diverse composition, migration and increased life expectancy, and manage the cycle of such a broad generational relief in the demographic pyramid. And, in order to start this process, this budget provides for EUR 2 million. And another fact, with regard to support for families – I understand that you, in your criticism, stick to the support for families envisaged in the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy – which, according to my Excel, amounts to nothing more and nothing less than 75 million. And in any case, I don't know if they'll consider certain scholarships from the Department of Education, matches that amount to almost 90 million. In total, direct and specific aid amounting to some EUR 164 million is not negligible. But they must not obviate the existence of another series of items with a direct impact on the families that you do not consider, such as, among others, the GIR and the supplementary housing benefit, amounting to EUR 460 million; housing aid for free rent, for EUR 1 million; the provision of EUR 5 million of economic benefits linked to the subjective right to housing, and the consolidation and extension of recruitment aid for the care of children, increasing the amount up to EUR 5.9 million. For this government there are no great forgotten. Yes, big ones affected by the crisis. And in these sectors we are trying to influence with the new programme of financial support for SMEs and self-employed people, which is already working and will be launched as soon as possible. An example is that this government has been accompanying and assisting SMEs and self-reliant since the beginning of the wave of the pandemic. Our government program, beyond the self-government chapter that you also know, includes the Strategic Plan for Industrial Development and Internationalization, which will include a specific programme for SMEs, to strengthen the Renovation of machinery plans, a clear bet for industry 4.0 with roots in Euskadi, a programme of stimulus to various sectors worth 15 million euros and 140 million for extraordinary actions. And new actions will be envisaged for the most punished sectors. Support measures for the tourism sector amounting to EUR 20 million have been announced this week. Therefore, less value judgements and more facts and figures cash and sounding. I'm just going on for the second round.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. In answer time, the popular Basque Group-Ciudadanese representative of Iturbura has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Again. Ladies Corcuera and Berrojalbiz, I want to thank you for your tone, both of you... I hadn't located her, Mrs. Berrojalbiz. I want to thank you, first of all, for your tone, inconsistent, logically, but I believe that always constructive in the debate, each with our differences, logically. And, as I said, with each one's positions, it's good to get to this rostrum, in this democracy, and see what issues we raise in our discrepancies. I would like to mention it simply, Mrs Berrojalbiz. When you talk about "say to nationalism", finish the sentence. That says to nationalism mandatory." Mandatory. That nationalism that I don't like, that nationalism that sometimes even threatens. And tell Mr. Sabas (the great headline). That's what his political party partner says, not me, who was threatening him. Therefore, limited to the subject of compulsory nationalism, the famous dam. Mrs Berrojalbiz was commenting on me in her speech, in addition to other adjectives that we had said about this amendment to the whole of the People-Citizens group – and it is true that for us it is false, it is conditional – she also reminded me that the budget was continuous. I will explain, Mrs Berrojalbiz, to you and to the Basque Government, why we believe this budget is continuing. It is continuing perfectly recognizable regarding the one approved with Podemos in the last legislature, Mrs Berrojalbiz. It seemed that the situation created by the pandemic should demand – at least we think so – an important shift in the approaches of the public accounts. But what you have done, and what you do, is bring us a pre-COVID budget that has been incorporated into programs, anti-COVID items, without distorting it. And, look, I'm going to give you a very graphic example, for the whole House. Look at whether this budget will be continuous, that the articulated text does not mention COVID-19 not once, not once. Too bad Mr. Azpiazu isn't here to confirm that. Therefore, not even when it refers to the European funds that you and I have talked about in this rostrum, created to deal with it. That is, let me tell you, a project alien to reality. The risk is that the record budget figures will become a lost opportunity, because, look, the 1.8 billion debt increase is used to compensate for at least 854 million collection losses and to pay the anti-COVID items, but also to maintain and increase, as if nothing happened, the current expenditure. And that's what we've been explaining. And that is one aspect of the introduction of this amendment as a whole. There has been no re-thinking of public accounts to eliminate both superfluous and merely summary spending, they have not wanted to release funds to fight the pandemic and meet the sectors most hit by the crisis. And we must ensure that this indebtedness, which will unfortunately, as I said earlier, be paid for by the next generations in the near and near future, has at least the maximum social and economic profitability, which is what we have to think for them. You have been unable in the government to recognize and translate into figures a new reality created by the pandemic that, unfortunately, I insist, is already conditioning us – only to see how the House is doing – is conditioning the whole legislature and is also going to condition, Mrs Berrojalbiz, successive budgets, no doubt. Therefore, if you do not want to undertake essential reforms, I believe that, therefore, we need to talk about missed opportunities. Mr Azpiazu in his speech – and Mrs Corcuera has also said this – commented to me, and he said it textually, that "an agreement could not be reached with other political forces, despite the Government's efforts to achieve it". You two, ladies, have otherwise quoted that phrase that Mr Azpiazu was taking to the rostrum. Look, I want to tell you that this will be with others, it will be with others, Mrs Corcuera and Mrs Berrojalbiz. Because we know how government approaches are, how government times are, because we checked and knew it in other legislatures. Hey, if we all know each other here! If we support the budgets of a government of its political parties, do you remember that? And we knew how you came and how you came and how you stayed, and what the times were and what the circumstances of every moment were. That is why we have now found that we have been asked to join a closed and finished budget. That's what they've come to talk about now, unlike when they came with another talent to talk to the People's Party. We were not in a coalition with fellow citizens, but we know him well, we know how things were done. Because they've never intended to negotiate with us... You courted other groups with the intensity with which you did it with the People's Party at other times, Mrs Corcuera and Mrs Berrojalbiz. What happens is that others gave them pumpkins, for whatever reason. You will have to explain it to them, but you and they know perfectly well what was going on. Because you pythonize... when you tell us, the People's Party or me... Hey, tell the media, too, that we were being transferred to all those headlines saying how close they were and why! And we clearly saw the circumstances that you used, that you were doing with those political parties what you weren't doing with the People's-Citizens coalition, those differences, Mrs Corcuera, Mrs Berrojalbiz. Mrs Berrojalbiz accuses us of frentists, at least she used it, I don't know if she meant it, of frentist to the People's-Citizens Coalition. Look, we, the People's Party-Citizens, Mrs Corcuera, and I say this to the whole House, and Members of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Government know that, we, the People's Party and Citizens – you can remember what I'm going to tell you – since the investiture debate, since that debate, we have offered our support and our hand to the Basque Government. We offered it, and I say to him more: follow that offer and that hand extended to the Basque Government, among other things, remember it, to help save lives, to regenerate the economy, to create employment on this land. And our commitment from the People's Party-Citizens, as I said, remains firm and continues to extend to you, but we must confine ourselves to all this in facts, not in words, and when I am talking about facts, I explained it to you in my first intervention, and I say it again, let us think about the Basque citizens, let us think about solving the real problems of the citizens. The problems of this land have names and surnames and are called ERTE, ERE, torture for the hoteliers of not knowing whether they will open the blind tomorrow or also torture for the merchants of whether they will be able to continue to open their shops. Either the self-employed, if they can endure; or if the SMEs will have to stop or stop their activity; or when the vaccines will arrive and how vaccination will be carried out without preferences to those who have a political party's licence. These are the real problems of this land, ladies and gentlemen, these are, and the citizens are what they want, to be solved also through these budgets. These budgets, as I said before, do not mention the word COVID-19 in the article. Mrs Corcuera also tells us that we repeat our arguments, some of our arguments, that we are repetitive. Look, Mrs. Corcuera, it's not our fault, the People's-Citizens' Coalition. I believe that it is not our fault that we re-offend, because those who are re-offending and those who are re-offending are you; it is you who are in the mistakes and who are implementing reforms every year that they do not follow. It is you who present the usual budget, with an appendix to deal with the pandemic, a budget that leads us to an alley, let me say so, to a dead end. Because I say to you, Mrs Corcuera, that not facing reforms is to aggravate the future, not your future or the future of your political party or of the Basque Government, but the future of all Basques, and you are in that approach. About the public sector... The time is running out, but I wanted to say to you: What about that report of duplicity that was approved by the Patxi López government, Mrs Corcuera? Do you remember? What's up? Of course you remember, to which we support for free, by the way, the People's Party, you also remember, of course. The report said that doubles, doubles and doubles cost the public coffers about 400 million a year. Well, then you will agree that that must be eliminated. They will have the opportunity when Mr Gordillo presents the partial amendments to these and other issues. But I ask Mrs Corcuera not to distract the debate. Here we have criticized the salary increase to the Government, to the Government, not that of officials. And I also believe that it is really necessary to bring the rise in GIR back to the same amount. Above all, the issue of European funds. Look, you have, Mrs. Berrojalbiz, a quality I don't have. I imagine you trust Mr Sánchez and I, I'm sorry, I don't trust Mr Sánchez or Mr Iglesias, because to approve the European funds without knowing how they will come, how much they will come, what time they will come, what time they will come... Look, if the lehendakari had to go where the lord... – we saw it this week – where Mr Sánchez, where the President of the Government to say: "Hey, what about ours, what about the issue of European funds?" Because he had to gather to say, "What about me? How much is it going to be? How much and when?". Of course, then, now they approve along with Vox, Bildu... They agree that Mr Sánchez can do what he wants on European funds, have all the capacity to do what he wants on European funds. Be careful, be careful, because they also take a surprise at the time of the distribution of those...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u22	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u23	Yeah, I'm just finishing up. And, finally, we have criticized the low execution of the investment. It's true that it's common. It is common to see it this way, it is historical, I would say, but it is not a virtue of your Government, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, but I believe it is more a serious defect that they do not seem willing to correct. I'm done. As I said before, without a doubt, I believe that the amendment to the whole of the Group of the People's Party-Citizens is more than ever necessary, because in addition to the continuists, as well as the false ones, as well as the conditioned ones, they are budgets that are not needed at the moment, but that we need budgets that are closer to tackling the crisis, the COVID-19 pandemic and to solving the real problems that the citizens of the Basque Country have. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u24	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Second round to answer, to Cork, Basque Sociialists.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u25	Thank you, President. Mr Iturgaiz, an amendment to the whole has the will to present an alternative to the proposal made by the Government, and that of the People's Party and Citizens' Party is an alternative to the policy itself that at least the People's Party has been carrying out until the last parliamentary term, when it agreed with the Government on the Euskadi budgets. You, for giving up, even renounce the signature you have signed year after year to support the caravan of solidarity with the refugees of the Sahara. We don't know if that's why you look so ugly at Mr. Married, don't you?, when you accuse others of signing things with Euskal Herria Bildu, who then remind them that you've been doing it for years. And now they have asked that, so as not to spoil the ongoing election campaign in which they live, they renounce even what they defend, Mr. Barrio, right? Who has seen it and who sees it! I can feel the cardboard, can't I? And they also give up defending the increase in the amount of GIR, at least for pensioners, as they did until a year ago. The insulting tone for the perceptors of this right – the people who are, moreover, the most vulnerable in our society –, sowing the suspicion that they are taken advantage of, is not new, Mr Iturgaiz, no, we have heard it repeatedly years before. We have heard this too many times, even a senator of yours by Sotosalbos, when he was a member of this House. And, as far as they are concerned, the Socialist Group, by voting no to its amendment as a whole, is going to support without fissure a project to ensure the health of all people, to reside where they reside, to rebuild Euskadi socially and economically and to leave no one behind. That was our electoral commitment and is the commitment on the front page of the government agreement. And that's what we're gonna do, not leave anyone behind. And if you don't like income guarantee income, know that we are going to make an even stronger social protection system, to reach out to those who had to and don't, and to do so more intensely where there are minors and where there are pensioners, and, above all, to get fewer and fewer people who need income guarantee income because we are able to boost quality employment. Lanbide has already begun to change and the agents are committed to improving this process. Social workers do want to tie their shoulders, while the PP and Citizens prefer to remain in the corner pointing with their finger not known what. All his speech distills a large complex towards what carries the Basque name. They don't care about Basque Country, whether Basquetour or whether the body has a name in Basque as Lanbide itself, so that its amendment says "with supposed embassies". It is a huge complex that the Socialists, moreover, do not understand, because all these things have been spoken of by you in the past. Moreover, a not too distant past, three years ago, before the pandemic, is true, but also before the PP stopped ruling Spain. And that wound is the one that continues to suppress by the amendment to the whole they have raised, and they fail to heal the wound. And you are right, Mr Iturgaiz, these budgets support the project led by Pedro Sánchez, no doubt, because while it is desirable that the policies of governments be aligned – in this case, on a progressive path – at this critical moment in our country's history, such alignment is essential. I do not know if you have not yet heard, but, indeed, we are at a time when the strength of our system has been put to the test. Socialists will be measured by an unequivocal bet for aligning what our municipalities do with our deputies, with the Basque Government, with the Government of Spain and with Europe. And we can't be more proud of it. Look, Mr. Iturgaiz, apply the "I sell advice, but I don't have it," because neither when you rule nor when you agree on budgets are you talking about the same things. They set false expectations, and what Mrs Berrojalbiz said, "false expectations, fair ones, and experiments..." – and in this case more if it still fits – with gaseous." It is said that we have called for an accession to a closed budget. Nothing further from reality. You said that there was an agreement with another parliamentary group, and that is not true, in sight it is. You said the media was talking to you... Mr. Iturgaiz, do we really work in politics with the media, through what the media say? Isn't it easier when you sit down on January 12th to tell the Economics and Finance Advisor: "What about trying to make a deal with the groups?". Because they would have told him what we told him from the minute one and what was said by Idoia Mendia: hand tended to bargain at any time. You have to be aware of that. Less looking at the media and more being in the meeting than you have to be, because if you don't, these things happen, you screw up. You said, "Doubles in 2009." Of course, he was there, but it was 2009, the government of Patxi López, 2009, Mr Iturgaiz. That it's 2021. And it has rained, and time has passed, and there have been laws, and there have been reforms, and management and services have changed and changed, and the government has changed, and it has been changing and has been adapting to the new... Don't you talk about 2009. Adapt it. At least modernize it a little, but don't tell me that this report is still in effect in all its facets, today, 2021. And, finally, you were telling me, and I also thank you for the tone, which you continue with your hand stretched out. Well, look, facts are love and not good reasons. Because here a lot of hand stretched out has not been, and in fact I refer. You said they were recurrent in their arguments because the Government, then, was also recurrent in their facts. I think it was because it was easier to repeat the amendment than to have a high eye and see where the shoulder can be fixed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. The Basque Nationalist Party is clear that an attractive social ecosystem must be created, hence the target of 77.8% of the budget for social policies. In infrastructures, where we will continue to drive the implementation of the Basque Y and other infrastructures that make us a European node. In economic and fiscal factors, in working conditions, in culture... It's a whole, Mr. Iturgaiz. Moreover, we must create political stability, another attraction that has cost us so much in the Basque Country. Political stability that directly affects the well-being and attraction of talent, investment, industry... And now you can join the wave of stability in Euskadi. Its political responsibility is very high, it is time to create consensus for a stronger, more competitive, greener, more digital and inclusive Euskadi. With teamwork, in which, if the opposition wants to unite, we will create an attractive ecosystem for Euskadi. If I focus on one of the factors, the economic appeal to create the above-mentioned attractive ecosystem – since that is what you, Mr Iturgaiz, have also mentioned – I would like to highlight our great historical work in the defense of self-government and Economic Concert. 130 years of history of a financing system that is the vault key of our self-government. A system of solidarity, of unilateral risk, which requires a great deal of responsibility in the management of public resources. And, as a result, we have also achieved this attractive ecosystem of ours. We have our industrial policy. By the way, here your group is talking about industrial policy, but who is talking about it in Madrid?... The Basque Nationalist Party. We have the Science and Innovation Plan, our clear bet that increases R & D+i support by 6% annually, with the aim of being the lever for companies to bet on R & D+i. We have the occupation and concern to be more competitive. A stake for internationalisation, 23 million euros for this. Bringing innovation to the last mile, that is, reaching the SMEs. And for this, very illustrative examples of calls from 2021 to R & D+i programmes: Hazitek, EUR 91.3 million; Emaiek Plus, EUR 68 million; Elkartek, EUR 40 million; Bikaintek, EUR 5.6 million; Azpitek, EUR 5.3 million. And all this framed in the budget of EUR 535 million of R & D expenditure in 2021 for different departments, such as: EUR 270 million in R & D for the Department of Economic Development; EUR 170 million in Education; EUR 59 million in Health and thus up to EUR 535.8 million. Or data showing an increase in employment in knowledge-intensive services: from 36 % in 2013, to 38,4 % in 2019. And maintaining employment in high-, medium- and high-tech manufacturing by 8.7% from 2013 to 2019. Or tax incentives, not only through the generation of deductions to R+D+i, but, for example, the possibility of transferring the excess R+D+i deduction to those Basque companies without fiscal capacity resulting from accumulated losses. Or the bet by Finkatuz, an instrument of participation in large companies with a long-term vocation to contribute to its root in the Basque economy, endowed this year with 160 million euros. And all this is achieved thanks to our autonomy, our historical rights for which we have worked so hard, although other political parties that form their coalition, their partners, have made a speech far removed from this approach. I hope that this pedagogy and tendency will reverse, since, otherwise, I would not understand his initiative presented last December 2, 2020 in this House – presented as a result of the agreement between the Government of Spain and the Republican Left – on re-centralisation, defending in his initiative the following: our fiscal autonomy – that is what they say – and financial, and the legitimacy of our tax figures (...) adopted from respect for the Economic Concert". Given their role, I would appreciate a clearer and, above all, consistent position in defending our historical rights, the Economic Concert and our self-government, as I only see contradictory messages in different institutions, such as those of their group in Madrid. And there's another factor I'm going to remind you of in this line of recentralization. Although the Government of Spain maintains clear asymmetries between territories, although Madrid is a sink of resources – radial tractor, the Mediterranean connection, the capital of the Kingdom – or has its fiscal attractions, we will continue to maintain our economic power. Above all, we will continue to defend here, in Europe and wherever our space is, our competitiveness, our talent, strengthening R & D & i, supporting innovative entrepreneurship. I have not heard you mention that Europe has rewarded Basque Digital Innovation Hub for its work in supporting the digital transformation of Basque SMEs. But this is not the first time since the President of the European Commission has already recognised them as an example of digitisation policy. A clear policy, prioritising health at these delicate moments, allocating 33% of the budget, and education, allocating 25% of the budget. I am glad, Mr Iturgaiz, that the only impact detected in our budget was not to have included the word of the virus in the articulated text, but they do not criticise the underlying budget. But I am going to tell you that this budget does include a detail of expenditure that includes an entire COVID programme. Memory includes justifications for the pandemic. The budget, Mr Iturgaiz, is a whole, and it is ridiculous to say that because we do not put the name of the virus in the articulated text we are in the presence of continuous budgets. Arguments that fall by their own weight. Because in the PNV we are clear which country we want, we define it in our government program, we put it in Berpiztu and, as a last resort, in Euskadi Next. You do not like EITB, the Basque euskera or the international delegations of the Basque Government, which bring so much value to our economic and social fabric. We'll never meet here, Mr. Iturgaiz. And it is no longer that some of your amendments are feasible or not. It is that the reduction and rethinking of the Basque and certain entities goes against our raison d'être. And he explained it to her. The delegations of the Basque Government have a clear objective in the internationalization and external action of Euskadi. But I have told you, Mr Iturgaiz, that our objectives are not the same as those of the Spanish Government, our external action is different from the moment when the industrial and cultural economic model is different. And it is regrettable that they call these delegations or the SPRI "chiringuitos", when they are the institutions that serve as a cultural and economic link with the comparable regions and countries, which serve to support the internationalization of our companies, of the Basque industry. Eta, amaitzeko, about the Basque. Mr Iturgaiz, the Basque is what makes us people and distinguishes us from the world. That is why our job is to guarantee the future of the Basque country. The euskera, which after 50 years of persecution, and being in a situation of vulnerability, we must push through active policies. And there's EITB, which is a consequence of our linguistic policies. I would like to remind you that EITB is Euskadi's first communication group, and continues to increase its social support: it grows on television, radio and the Internet, and is a leader in news. It's our public chain: more than 1,000 people work. I mean, they don't like reality. But we, the Basque Nationalist Party, will continue to work to achieve the conditions that facilitate the use of Basque in all areas, demanding the officiality of Basque in all international institutions. And defending the rest of the way, it doesn't mean that other languages won't encourage or encourage them. For instance, there are 6,4 million planned to promote English. The goal is to go to a language of education. But don't forget, the nerve is ours. It neither makes us better nor worse; it makes us what we are. It is the main exponent of our plural collective identity. Euskera is the basis of our idiosyncrasy, and the way of seeing life. Only an administration that goes along the path of bilingualism with society will be able to offer an advanced and quality service. Bernart Etxeparek esaten zuen legez: "Euskara jalgi hadi plazara". Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Together, the representative of the Podemos-IU team has the word to defend his full correction. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u29	Yes, thank you. Good morning, everyone. We don't have the same vision as the counselor. We do think that budgets are designed in the same logic as in previous years; we are going to call them continuums. But above all, what we think is that they respond to a model that is not being guaranteed for a distribution of public resources that ensures decent living conditions for the entire population in this country, as well as for the equality and social cohesion that Euskadi needs. Quite the opposite. We think that these are budgets at the service of a model that, in the end, leaves in private a part of what is of all and of all. We, therefore, often speak of a model to the dictate of the interests of the elites. We do not share a model that we think puts public resources at the service, preferably, of capital. But, beyond the rhetoric that each year accompanies the presentation of budgets, a detailed analysis of the law reveals a truly continuous economic framework, with the exception of the tailor-made programme for measures against the COVID crisis. Given the magnitude of the economic collapse experienced this year 2020, which comes after a decade of weakening of public services as a result of austerid right-wing cuts and policies, we see that the obsession to maintain budgetary balance has once again prevailed over the need to give a strong public response to the post-pandemic socio-economic crisis. The creation of this special item, which has already been made clear by the adviser we are talking about exceptional events for this budget year, takes the whole increase in budgetary expenditure. Therefore, in our view, it has no impact on ordinary policies on the country's model. They will continue to be the same policies. And we don't share them. This special item also represents a crude degree of discretion for the Government and a genuine budgetary marketing policy. The budgets presented this year, in our opinion, retain basically the same logic of transferring public money to the private sector as in previous years. And they also maintain some cutting measures that were devised and launched in the previous crisis. It is a model that continues to pamper the needs of employers and large companies, through different programmes, but without guarantees for the maintenance of jobs. At the same time, it allocates a large part of the economic resources of public services also to the private sector, part of which in this country lives exclusively of our public services and resources, and at the expense of the working conditions of its workers. Meanwhile, we maintain the highest rate of temporaryity in public employment throughout the State. Therefore, for us, it is a model of unjust spending. And it is also a model that is based on unjust income. This model and these budgets are based on an unjust tax model, which penalizes, continues to penalize the working class against the income of the capitalists. We again denounce – we have done so many years ago – what is hypocrisy to us when the government tells people that we cannot mix tax and budget negotiations, when it was indeed the currency of exchange with the People's Party in 2018-2019. The problem is not that budgets and taxation cannot be mixed in this negotiation. Nor is it a problem of competence: it is the same parties that rule in parliaments and that rule in Euskadi, and we are the same parties that are in opposition in both institutions. It's not a time problem either. We have been listening to the government for five years "that is not the time, that must be analyzed, that must be seen, that it does not yet touch" and, in the meantime, as I said, they negotiated and agreed with the People's Party. The problem is surely that we do not want to negotiate taxation with the left because we have different models. You should be honest and say it like that. Budgets are willing to negotiate some items and amounts, but the Government is not willing to talk about model content because they are different models. We have been willing to negotiate on these budgets, it is true, but we sincerely believe that the Government does not. We were called to a meeting, almost out of time. And in one thing Mr Iturgaiz, who has intervened before, was right: these things – we have also checked other years – start before and start otherwise when there is will. However, although they are different models, we maintain that, despite the different models, when the negotiations arrive, we must try to speak, and we have done so, with honesty. But it has been difficult, because, as I said, we did not want to go in and talk about model content. The adviser assured in the press, after these negotiations, that we have to explain to him what is the difference in model, which does not find it. That's why I'd like to have that appreciation and answer it. We have a negotiating platform that included a tax reform that you reject, an increase in the deficit that you do not share, the launch of the public bank – which I suppose you do not want to hear about – a public energy company, a public care system that would end up with many chiringuitos or recover outsourced, privatized and subcontracted services for public management. And you, Mr. Counselor, can't find the difference in modeling. I think you're the only ones who shouldn't see her. In any case, these are the reasons why we have tabled an amendment in its entirety and will vote for the return of the government's budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u30	[[Microphone Off spoke]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u31	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Does anyone remember Consuelo Landa, Bernardina Escudero, Begoña del Olmo? They are the three women, the first three women who were vaccinated against the covid in Euskadi. That day, I think we all shared the same feeling, and it was hope, and also the conviction that we were certainly going to talk a lot about the vaccine. And if we're doing it, that's what we're doing. But not in the sense we expected. The truth is that we've been talking about Maiz, Sabas, privileged vaccines, political responsibilities that no one assumes for a week. This shows that it is necessary to set up a committee of inquiry in this Parliament to clarify everything that has happened, which of course were not isolated checks, but was something much deeper, much deeper, which has to do with the abuse of power and the use of privileges in an ethically reprehensible way. In any case, it's up to us to talk about budgets. Budgets that, by the way, have amended the entire opposition, the same opposition – I take advantage of it already – that yesterday unanimously called for the resignation of the Health Adviser. 2020. It's time for the annual budget to face the biggest shock that our economy has ever suffered in its close history. Health services, lodging services, social services, justice and education are tense as never before. Trade and navigation are also within the limits of its options. The international capital is moving crudely in our territory, decoying corporations and produce plans that are still profitable. Survey crisis, too, has increased to unbearable limits. The feminisation of the household, houses, and domestic aids, are united by the increasing amount of difference and unemployment, and also by weakening the structures in which the sharing of wealth and public services is preserved. After all, the state of many houses and sectors is as insupportable as the first medical care services, and they require a firm and structural intervention. In front of this situation, 2021. The budgets of the year are indispensable resources for the economic recovery that tends to equality of public health and the model based on ecological transitions that can no longer be postponed. However, the project presented to us by the Basque Government believes that it is not up to this historic challenge. It is, and has been said several times, continuous, practically identical to the one adopted last year, with the exception of the programme of measures against the crisis caused by COVID-19, the amount of which, as my group colleague pointed out, is misleading, because it is often fed by pre-existing items and programmes, which have been de-financed in favour of this programme. If we look at income, the fall in productive activity will shift to a lower corporate tax collection, which had already reduced its revenue collection by 12% due to the inappropriate 2018 tax reform to which reference has also been made before and which we believe needs to be reversed. In the same way, the tax advantages that are granted to financial institutions and companies, after which there are a few large assets, which are far superior to those of the vast majority of Basque households, must be eliminated. To deal with the collection, the quality of the collection, the Basque Government will issue public debt. However, net borrowing will be less than 15%, despite the fact that the agreements of the Joint Economic Concert Commission set the limit at 16.9% of the Community's GDP. We believe that those possible margins of indebtedness should be exhausted. Nor is the total absence of income expected from European funds understood. Their absence in the budgets introduces a kind of exceptional framework in the management of the budgets. It is likely, we do not know, that the Basque Government is counting on carrying the recovery from the back of the state, precisely, and from the European funds. If we look at spending – and my partner was already commenting on it – and given the magnitude of the 2020 collapse, it seems to us that the obsession with fiscal balance has prevailed over the desirability of giving a strong and necessary response to the crisis. Let's talk about health. The pandemic has reflected an increase in health spending. But it seems unlikely that this budget will be able to dampen the effects of the health crisis, solve the collapse of primary care and reverse a decade of cuts and privatizations. That is, whether it is able to count, or whether it makes it possible to have a public health system capable of responding to the challenges posed by the pandemic. The deregulation and privatization of the health system, the deterioration of labour rights, the weakening of the primary care model, the lack of personnel, the unorthodox rates of temporaryity, the physical and emotional exhaustion of workers in health are not new problems caused by the pandemic, are some consequences of the policies of the last governments on public health. And it is that we are very far away, we are light years away from the average investment in health in the rest of the countries of Europe. We are talking about 5% versus 9% of other places. We believe that a greater budgetary effort should be made in this area and, in addition, an effort that cannot be directed to any site, but that 25% of all this effort should be directed – from actual expenditure on health care – to primary care, because this would avoid overloads, hospital costs, and avoid the evolution and complication of pathologies. Of course, we believe that directing resources to direct governance avoids additional costs due to the need for profitability on the part of contractors. Let's talk about education. The education system has also had to be adapted in this context of the pandemic and has been done mainly at the expense of the efforts of staff and students. The Education budget is not enough to offer quality services that allow for a drop in ratios, a reversal of the interinity rate, the improvement and intervention of the infrastructures of the network of public centers, to advertise essential services – such as the school eaters or those of the cleaning as well –, to bet on the digitization and democratization of the teaching-learning with a public digital platform, to bet on the University of the Basque Country/Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea and on its research staff, to realize the freeness of education from 0 to 3 years and to bet on active policies of equality throughout the Department. The cuts over the last 10 years must be reversed to 6% of GDP in education, as recommended by UNESCO. We are currently at 3.95%, even below the 4.18 we had in 2010. Let's talk about the public care and equality system. We have to recognise – I think we all recognise this – that the exacerbation of the pandemic care crisis has been brutal. We need a system to ensure that everyone who needs it will be cared for in conditions and throughout their lives, and that this is done by generating unprecarious employment. To this end, we have proposed to publish residences, free public day care centres, regularize home services, generate community support networks and more public equipment and support. And it is something that this budget does not contemplate. Nor do we see in this budget a strategy to extend the protection of women and also of diverse sexual identities from structural discrimination and violence. And the 1% increase for Emakunde is insufficient for the tasks and functions entrusted to it by law. One more year we are also witnessing the lack of real gender-responsive implementation and planning in all budgets. And, with regard to the demographic challenge, to which reference has also been made, it is true that the Government has been considering the need to boost public policies with the aim of increasing birth rates, for example, but let us say that mothers do not find sufficient institutional support and these budgets do not make it possible. Let us talk about economic development and ecological transition. The Department of Economic Development, Sustainability and the Environment transfers more than half of the budget to public enterprises that do not specify the projects for which the investments will be directed. Only 28 million remain for the department's own investments. And real investments will be in companies whose projects and expenses are very difficult to trace and which, in addition, are led by political positions. If we look, for example, at the Basque Entente de la Energia, there is also continuity. It is reinvested in SHESA, a company, by the way, deficient for unproductive. An investment is also planned for a new gas well that the counselor said was for the Viura field. And this is in contradiction with the Lehendakari's own climate emergency declaration and the resolutions of this Parliament which call for a change in the energy model. Therefore, what we propose from Elkarrekin PodemosIU is the creation of a public energy company that generates and commercializes renewable energy, as a counterweight to energy oligopoly and its manipulation of energy prices. For its part, the Department of Natural Heritage and Climate Change does not have any funds to restore and protect protected natural spaces, which are under pressure in this country for agro-ganadere, forestry or cinegetic uses. The budgets of the Environmental Quality Directorate continue to bet on maintaining, and not on increasing – we said in committee – the air quality network, and do not invest in innovative projects to control real-time polluting companies in our country. After the Zaldibar disaster, the Basque Government in these budgets only plans to invest in what is the last option for Europe: landfills and incinerators. And it is not envisaged to move towards zero residue, as required by the European Union. Let's talk about employment. As far as employment is concerned, a 10% unemployment rate is to give up what some budgets could have as a real impact. Through the budgets we believe that we must ensure that there is a permanent investment of public capital, with strategic and operational control capacity and management participation in those companies that are considered strategic and are in danger of closure or affected by abrupt outflows of capital. Every investment or public grant to enterprises must require the maintenance of jobs. In turn, we believe that the staffing of public services should be strengthened at all administrative levels and autonomous bodies: Osakidetza, Basque public education, Labour Inspectorate, Osalan, municipal services, etc. We believe that a shock plan is urgently needed to ensure living and working conditions for domestic workers. And we also believe that a rescue plan is needed for self-employed people and SMEs, with specific support for tourism, culture and hospitality. Let's talk about social protection. The truth is that it causes perplexity to attend a budget proposal that remains motionless in the face of such a social crisis that we are experiencing. And we believe that we need to deploy a Basque social shield in the face of the widening wage gap, unemployment, precariousness, poverty and social exclusion, which has, by the way, particularly, as always, affected the most disadvantaged sectors. Unfortunately, we are leaving a lot of people behind, and what the budgets reflect is that the plan is to follow as we are. It is not understood that the Government does not equate the increase in GIR with the latest increase in the inter-professional minimum wage and that the 2011 cut is maintained. It is not understood that there is no increase in social emergency aid or that effective protection for the population affected by energy poverty or the increase in child poverty is not deployed. Nor do we see any progress in improving the social services system, which still does not complete its deployment. We need to invest more and better to eradicate the bottlenecks that have been identified, such as lack of access to information or the digital divide in users. Nor do we see the effort that should have been included for the protection of children from all forms of violence. This Parliament has been reiterating the need for the comprehensive and multidisciplinary deployment of the Basque reception system for migrants and refugees. The Directorate for Migration is being re-established, but policies need to be funded, and this budget does not respond to this challenge. As far as development cooperation is concerned, 14 years after the adoption of the Cooperation Act, this law is still not being complied with, because 0.7 % of the budget is not allocated to this heading. Let's talk about housing. The problem of evictions has been aggravated in recent years. At present, also a result of the health crisis, households whose incomes have fallen significantly or their members have lost their jobs are at certain risk of losing their homes, despite the suspension of evictions during the state of alarm. But these budgets reveal that the Basque Government postpones the development of the subjective right to housing for another year. Indeed, the deployment of the last 20 years of public housing policy in Euskadi has yielded results, but its own pace of growth, and linked to an insufficient budget, makes it imperative that there should be intervention in the private market, because budgetary policies that do not incorporate elements in this direction cannot be endorsed. Let's talk about transportation. Also more continuism. The government agreement envisages the implementation of the single ticket. But these budgets do not include specific items to make that possible. In contrast to other works, by the way, of dubious social and, of course, no environmental sustainability, such as the subfluvial of the Bilbao River, the Bizkaia Supersur, it turns out that lines 4 and 5 of the Bilbao metro are relegated once again. There are insufficient investments to promote safer public transport during the pandemic. We believe that it is necessary to increase the mobile bus fleet and the staff in order to increase the frequencies and thus favour the minimum distances of safety within the vehicles. Let's talk about the Basque public administration. The Government has reduced the number of civil service staff compared to pre-crisis levels. In many public services there are still temporary rates of between 30 and 65 % of the workforce, constantly engaging in recruitment fraud. The Basque Government has a tendency to outsource services and privatize them systematically, and that does not mean anything other than sub-contracted employment in worse working conditions and, indeed, providing benefits for a few entrepreneurs. We also find, one more year, a very high expenditure of resources in licenses for private information systems and applications, which are of restricted use and closed code and, therefore, are, by definition, insecure. It is incomprehensible that the Government continues to waste resources, when alternatives based on free software, without license costs, are more stable, safer than private ones. The development of free software is a necessary condition for technological sovereignty and also generates high-quality and localized jobs. Let's talk culture. The cultural sector is one of the great ones affected by the health crisis. The truth is that we are faced with a sector that was already precarious and that finds as the only answer a reordering of the same expenditure that the Basque Government does. The budget increases are for sports and linguistic policy programmes, while cultural promotion and heritage programmes do not increase at all; on the contrary, they fall in their funding by -0.7 % and -5 % respectively. That is why we believe that another model of cultural policy that puts creators and their problems at the centre of political action is possible. We therefore believe that it is important to promote, and will do so, cultural protection measures, promoting the development of the Artist's Statute, equality plans and the creation of specific employment plans for this sector. In conclusion, the draft budget denotes a vision of the crisis caused by the pandemic as something transitory, for which we only need a specific programme with which to respond to a situation that is cyclical, and after which everything will return to be as before. Thus, beyond this programme, the budget is virtually identical to that of the previous financial year. Consistent with this, increases are financed with public debt and nothing else. But it does not even exploit the entire margin of indebtedness negotiated within the framework of the Joint Committee on Economic Concert. This budget remains neoliberal. It still does not reverse the cuts made during the previous crisis. It does not progress in what is intended – with respect to the wealth generated – for health and education. It is difficult with employment and economic development policies. It is illusory with specific equality policies. Maintains cuts in social protection and in GIR. And it deepens externalization and precariousness. Faced with this reality, we, Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, present an alternative. An alternative that starts from the vision of the consequences of the crisis as profound social effects. We believe that we need much more expansive budgets, taking full advantage of the margin of indebtedness, and making sufficient investments to meet the needs arising from the crisis, which is health, social and economic, but with structural and not just cyclical changes. We need to increase investment in public health until we reach the European average, move forward in the presence of public education, publish school eateries... We need a public digital educational platform. We need to bet on the University of the Basque Country/Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea and its research staff. We need to realize the gratuitousness of education from zero to three years. We need to develop a public care system, which ensures that anyone who needs it will be cared for in conditions, with non-precarious employment, and by publishing residences. We also need to substantially increase investment in equality policies, to combat gender inequalities and machist violence, as well as to implement – but really, seriously – the gender perspective in budgets. We believe that SHESA must be dissolved and that a public electricity company must be set up to reduce costs and prices, as well as to make progress in the decarbonisation and electrification of households. We believe that the budget for the air quality network needs to be increased in order to prevent new episodes such as Zaldibar. We believe that the Labour Inspectorate must be strengthened in order to combat illegal overtime and deaths in accidents at work, as well as in order to combat labour fraud. We believe that it is necessary to supplement the lack of activity benefit for self-employed persons made by the central Government. We believe that we need the deployment of 100% of the social services portfolio, and we also think that we need to expand GIR and social emergency aid. We need, we believe we also need the expansion of the affordable rental housing park. We also believe that more investment should be made in public transport to ensure the minimum safety distances within vehicles. For all these reasons, we present our alternative and believe that the draft budgets presented by the Basque Government should be returned for reconsideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. In the opposite round, Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u33	Thank you, President. I would first like to assess the negotiation process of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, and I would highlight the attitude of this group by proposing a proposal of maximums and no red lines. That is why the Basque Government's offer, which had an impact of EUR 97 million, is also relevant in order to influence health, care, equality, gender-based violence, social protection and inclusion, education, housing, employment, the environment and energy efficiency policies. I also think it is important to include in the Basque Government's offer the strengthening of certain policies and the acceleration of others, as well as the inclusion of certain commitments in areas such as housing, the economy, taxation and energy. It seems to us that the offer of negotiation was a generous offer, because it involved a 12.2% capacity of influence in real spending, and it was also a viable offer within the competence of the Basque Government, it was a realistic offer and also in line with the existing budgetary provisions and also in line with an improvement of certain expenditure items aimed at public policies and concrete actions with which we were aligned or in perfect agreement. But, well, the negotiation passed and did not succeed, and we find this amendment in its entirety. And look, there are many ways of doing magic, but we all know that they don't stop being appearances: to look like a rabbit comes out of a joke, that a body can break in half without anything happening to the person in that box, or it can look like, as is the case with Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, who are eager to reach an agreement. But magic is, in short, a trick, the cards are marked. And, by the art of birlibirloque, the amendment to the whole of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita contains matters that have not been in the terms of the negotiation referred to the Basque Government. And at the end of the show, also by magic art, when raising the handkerchief, the fears have reappeared to what they will say; what the unions will say and criticize – that some were already tightening my shoe and pressing – what Euskal Herria Bildu will think of us, what will someone think in four years' time when there are new elections. In short, a stage fear, and, in this case, political vertigo. They have opted from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unitada for the tactic of aspire to influence only where they govern, as in Madrid or Navarre. Where they do not govern, even if these are exceptional times and circumstances, they do not make the effort to prioritize, support or strengthen the protection of the most vulnerable, nor do they even make the exercise of presenting themselves before Basque citizens as a coherent and responsible party or as coherent and responsible parties. Socialists can understand that Elkarrekin Podemos and the United Left have a complex scenario. They had made the election campaign with only two messages: a tripartite that preached without having the criterion of who was indispensable, that of the Basque Socialists, and make a clean picture of any policy of those who preceded them in these seats and expressly for engaging in substantive agreements. Mr Hernández, and also his party partner, Mr Martínez, I recognize the consistency of having maintained the position of a year ago. But those who joined this XII. Parliament, I do not know whether by parliamentary practice, by the habit of a place such as Parliament, where day by day we find ourselves in the corridors with the plurality of the country we represent and with the weight that we each have, they put on the table a declaration of intentions: to want to negotiate the budgets. And the government accepted the invitation. And negotiations can either prosper or they can fail, that's natural. What is striking is that in failure you are supporting an amendment to the whole in the terms that you do so and that you are supplementing it with amendments to the joint text and to the budget headings, as if the advisers of the Basque Government had not passed through this plenary and had not answered the questions orally and also in writing, as if today in this plenary we had to start the legislature again from scratch and we had not been working for months in the Basque Parliament and in the Government. And I'll give you an example. You are now proposing an increase in income guarantee income of 5.8%. The budgets propose, for the first time since the draft budgets themselves, without negotiation with anyone, not the result of a negotiation, an increase of twice the public salaries. Well, Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita did not question or value this in the appearance of the second vice-lehendakari, nor has he questioned it in the written questions, nor has he questioned or valued it in the negotiation with the Basque Government. Elkarrekin Podemos has never asked for a larger increase for income guarantee income, nor a tenth more have asked. They could have done it, but they haven't. And the socialists wonder if it is possible to have a sensible debate about our social protection system, when with whom you want or intend to agree you do not pose your proposals frankly. We did not have the debate on the protection system in the past legislature, because, among others, Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita allowed the time for no amendments to be tabled, but we will have that debate this legislature and you will not be able to escape. You can talk about taxation. Of course we can talk about taxation when we talk about budgets, because we all care, we all care about income, but taxes don't change every year, and this government and the parties that support it have said that we are going to talk about taxation after evaluating the reforms carried out at a more favourable juncture and in the relevant competition forums. However, for progressives, taxation should not be a race of tax rates, that is very typical of the right, but not of the discourse of the left. Socialists defend taxation as the tool for distributing the wealth needed to obtain and maintain public services, as well as for supporting the economic activity we want for our society. That is why we need to define what we want, we need to define how much it costs, we need to define how it is paid and so we can establish the most appropriate tax rules, always with progressive criteria. And the Basque Socialists have been arguing for many years that our will in fiscal matters is to move towards European fiscal convergence. But at the moment we are not going down the wrong path, in all fiscal reforms we are progressing and we are moving towards convergence with the rest of Spain. Because although We may have decided to stay in this battle with the right-wings on the subject of the maximum rates – some want to go down a lot and others want to go up to the top – it would be good to remember that a rise in the real corporate tax rate – the minimum, which companies actually pay – has just been approved in Spain to 15%. And in Euskadi, it's at 17%. That is inappropriate reform, Mrs Gorrotxategi. And if you want to stay in that loop, then yourself. The Basque Socialists, at the moment, are interested in the fact that companies, above all, can pay, can contribute by paying the taxes they have, because they are active and because they have profits. And we are interested that these benefits also affect the wages of their workers and, in addition, the public services. I am not going to go into the rest of the literature that from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita put this amendment to the whole, because of its lack of rigour, because it does not adhere, moreover, to the truth and because it is a calcum to those already raised and debated in this House in the last legislature. It lacks rigour because it mixes public bodies, autonomous bodies, public societies. Because they also speak of a calculation, on the fly, of more income, without saying how much or why, with numbers in hand, with concrete figures, which is, besides striking, recurrent on the part of your group since they are in this Parliament. The amendments to the whole of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita that we discussed in the last legislature were the same as they now present, except for one term, that of pandemic. They denounced the government's economic policy as it is now; income and taxation were treated in the same way as they have done today. In the expenditure chapter, its last amendment to the whole, for example, was structured into five chapters: a budget that does not prioritize the fight against inequality between men and women, a scarce budget to enhance employment and economic development, a government that strengthens a two-speed education system, a continuous action in the rest of the areas and a chapter of conclusions. All these matters were resolved and were parked with a budget agreement with Elkarrekin Podemos for the year 2020, the last year of the last parliamentary term and, in addition, an election year. An agreement that had an impact of 80 million. And now you are back on track with almost the same amendment to the whole for the 2021 budgets and with a tactic for budgetary agreements whose coherence only you understand or understand with regard to what you do where you govern. And, moreover, they do not stick to the truth by saying that employment is not the priority of the Basque Government in these budgets, when it is the number one commitment of the number one page of the government program. Employment policy is spelled out on the front page of the budget project. And they lack substratum when they talk about lack of support for the self-employed, when they should know that there are direct ways of supporting entrepreneurship: more than 8 million euros in Lanbide and more than 3 million euros are the budgets that exist in the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption for this topic. Policies to boost housing rental are also a political priority for socialists and the Basque Government, with the expansion of the public housing stock and responses to the subjective right to housing. In addition, Councillor Iñaki Arriola, in his appearance, has already advanced the construction of 1,250 sheltered housing units for rent and the acquisition of 7,200 vacant buildings for the Bizigune programme, with 75% of the housing budget and its public societies being allocated to direct expenditure on rental policies, and 25% to urban rehabilitation. Nor is it worth stopping to talk about what you define as a lack of commitment against labour fraud, when in four years 20,000 contracts have been regularized and the budgets include three more inspectors and the creation of four new places. What do you mean, in Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, by a lack of commitment against labour fraud, when budgets are also planning to increase anti-fraud campaigns and equality plans? They also lack the truth about equality plans, which this year extend to companies with more than 100 workers, according to the deadlines set by the Ministry of Labour itself – which, if it sounds like it, is headed by you – and which here in Euskadi also have a specific budget for their dissemination alongside the campaign against the wage gap, in addition to the specific programmes for women to qualify in better-paid sectors. We are talking about a budget allocation of EUR 1,470,000, intended for actions that precisely carry the statement of struggle against the wage gap, inspections that guarantee equality or the promotion of women's entrepreneurship and talent, of which 80%, EUR 1,170,000, are new items that did not exist in the 2020 budgets. These budgets for 2021 also raise €370,000 for the strategic framework and action plan against the wage gap. They propose specific notions such as the study on work of equal value, changes in the anti-fraud mailbox to highlight complaints related to fraud control, a digital campaign with the motto Stop the gap... The equality units in the labour inspections of Araba, Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia will continue, with specific training on equal terms. A pilot programme for the preparation of gender impact reports in collective bargaining is proposed, with three actions: the evaluation of equality between men and women in existing collective agreements; advice and training to the Gender Labour Inspectorate; and the establishment of a service for gender impact analysis of each collective agreement submitted to the labour authority. A report that should be used to make negotiating commissions aware of aspects of non-discriminatory content and promote equality between men and women. And I'm just stopping for a moment with the ERTE complements. Before yesterday, Wednesday, without going any further, the Bureau of Social Dialogue of Euskadi, on the proposal of its president, who is the second vice-lehendakari, Idoia Mendia, agreed to its extension. And in the budget proposal for 2021 there is the necessary financial envelope for this extension. And the way it is done is that it is agreed with the government, with the employer and with the unions Workers Commissions and UGT. And we have told you many times, and I will not tire of repeating it, and now more than ever, because you are also at another social dialogue table and you are leading it: there is no better way to move forward than conciliation, and those tables and their agreements is being an example for politics, a policy that the Socialists miss in this budgetary debate, the compromise, their commitment, that of Elkarrekin Podemos and Izquierda Unita, beyond the differences, for taking Euskadi forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is a day of illusions and sorrows. I hope that society will have the budget it deserves: 12.442 million dollars of education, health, social protection, and economy in many sectors, by means of modification, though the present state of economic, sanitarian, and social is difficult. But at the same time, at the same time, grief, the entire correction of the opposition groups, and the fear that the political fear had increased in proportion to this serious situation, than to show the union of society. It's a pity we didn't realize the political responsibility that we have against us. As I mentioned in my previous speech, the Basque Government has negotiated with all the political parties in this House, and in record time. The Government has negotiated so that political parties with less representation can translate its proposals into the submitted draft, without obviously implying a break in our model and a paradigm shift. And so it has been with the Elkarrekin Podemos group, with whom there has been a sincere negotiation, but which after several meetings has ended without success. And no, Mr. Hernandez, it wasn't the last. In fact, it was you who changed the meeting for finals for agenda reasons. But, in any case, from the Basque Nationalist Party we want to thank the group of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita for their willingness to negotiate, even if they have not finally accepted the proposals offered by the Basque Government. We are confident that this will be a first step towards securing support on other issues. It is a good way to go, and other political parties in this House, without chronifying in the opposition, should follow their example. While it was time to take a step forward, it was positive to launch the message of broader pacts and a magnificent opportunity for the agreement to put political vertigo aside. Because we face budgets that include strong growth in health and education – I will not repeat the figures already given in my previous intervention – a COVID programme with 542 million, more public investment and more R & D spending, and not only that, social spending will absorb 77.8% of the budget. Budgets that enable the incorporation of Next Generation funds, for which the Basque Government has prepared the document Euskadi Next, a local response to face a global challenge. Investment programme that aims to receive European funds worth 5.7 billion, which are able to activate a total investment of 13.135 million euros. Programme which has received contributions from different social, economic and institutional actors. We are therefore talking about projects contrasted under the umbrella of a participatory model, in line with what Europe has shown, indicating that it would be essential for member states to initiate as soon as possible a broad dialogue on social policies with social partners and actors for the successful implementation of recovery and resilience plans. And so has the Basque Government. It is the design of Euskadi Next, prior to contrasting with the economic and social actors and with the transparency due to this Parliament, through numerous appearances, even a full monographic. And it will continue to do so, with its commitment embodied in this draft budget to report quarterly on the evolution of European funds. One more example of transparency. And I say that it is another example to link it to a mention by the Elkarrekin Group We can in its amendment, since such transparency is transferred to all public societies, foundations, public entities under private law, to all. Transparency in the budgets of their entities and their liquidations submitted to this Parliament. It is paradoxical to question the transparency of all of them and that of the funds allocated to SPRI, when their role is so relevant in the internationalisation of the Basque business fabric, R & D, and innovation, and they also exceed all audits and control by the Court of Auditors. It was a pity, therefore, that, when you read the corrections of the whole of you, they were highly valued, especially by the efforts of the party of the Government to arrive at the settlements. Four days of marathon work, intense and honest. Three proposals made, whose final offer was EUR 97 million to be able to influence health policies; EUR 23 million to strengthen primary care and investment in Osakidetza. To care, equality and gender-based violence 3.4 million; to education 9 million, moving towards free haurreskolak, and investment in educational infrastructure; 8.5 million for supplementary housing provision; 46 million for employment, extending the Basque Government's aid on ERTs and sectoral aid schemes; in the environment and energy efficiency €7 million, including the promotion of renewable and self-consumption energy and the energy rehabilitation programme for buildings. Proposals implying that the Elkarrekin Group We can influence 12% of the increase in real spending, being the parliamentary weight of the Elkarrekin Group We can influence 8%. You have recognized the money effort knowing that arithmetically, in your own words, they are not necessary. But the government has gone further and has made an effort to offer the Elkarrekin Group we can make more political commitments, because its aim has always been to obtain wider support, including proposals in areas such as housing, economics and taxation, by raising a debate on tax reform. Therefore, yes, Mr Hernández, we have gone further. And in the energy field, for example, offering a commitment not to make new applications for exploration. It is difficult to understand your refusal, when you, the formations that make up Elkarrekin Podemos, have thanked and acknowledged the effort made by the Basque Government to collect areas that are important to you, such as housing, in which the Basque Government proposed to put in place a system of control of rental prices that, by the way, have accepted it in view of the budgets of the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz, but which seems to you to be insufficient here. Or in the area of taxation, where you, like the Government of Navarre, have offered EH Bildu this approach to tax reform and the creation of green taxes. But here you say that the same commitment offered to you by the Basque Government has little value. I will not deny that my astonishment at finding that you were going to table an amendment as a whole has not been excessive, as you have been launching proclamations for several months to focus your position on these budgets. And so Mr. Hernandez said in an interview a few days ago: "They're not our budgets, we don't like their logic," you said. And it's understandable, we have a different model, we're different political parties, but the budgets of the state aren't our budgets, and yet we've accepted them. Knowing our relative weights, we've had influence in the budgets of the state, and we've got a touch of our own, attracted by the Basque benefit projects. You didn't want to take that opportunity, of course, because that's why the Gregoriad attitudes should be ignored. When one wants to agree something does not use a trench language, advancing events from the absolute possession of truth. When you want to agree, you don't get scared when you offer an offer that advances in aspects that you are claiming, to the extent that you don't want to analyze it. Because that might show that perhaps the decision of the non-pre-negotiation was not pre-negotiation. In any case, I'll explain why these budgets are brave and social. Budgets amounting to EUR 12,442 million, EUR 3,226 million higher than in 2013 and EUR 770 million higher than in 2020. Almost eight out of ten euros are allocated to health, education, employment and social policies. Aid to address the social consequences of the pandemic, with an additional budget of EUR 29 million, including an additional EUR 15 million for social emergency aid and an additional EUR 6.6 million for grants from the Inor Atzean Utzi Gabe fund. The RGI and the supplementary housing benefit, with a endowment of 460 million euros, which, moreover, I remind you, being a subjective right, is not limited to its endowment. Gehiago. To the primary care of Osakidetza, effort to improve productivity on waiting lists, 7.5 million. An increase of 4 % in the remuneration allocated to administrative staff. The creation of new places, 3.4 million. Investments amounting to EUR 21 million. Digitalisation of education with a multi-annual project of 106 million euros. Work for quality employment, affecting youth unemployment, with a budget of 13.3 million euros. Lehen Aukera, Reactivate, Youth Guarantee, contract-relevant, support for return... Work will continue on the wage gap, allocating 1.5 million against the wage gap for inspections to ensure equality, the promotion of women's entrepreneurship and talent; 80% of the allocation for new programmes. All of this by adding Emakunde to the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy, which clearly implies a strengthening of the cross-cutting approach to the fight for equality, against gender discrimination and against violence against women. To question that employment is not the Government's priority is not to have read the first page of Berpiztu, the first page of the government program and the first page of these budgets. This budget provides EUR 8.3 million for entrepreneurship, complementing the ERTs, established by the Social Dialogue Bureau. More resources for the Labour Inspectorate and increased anti-fraud campaigns. Plans to reduce temporality and partiality, local and regional employment plans. And the momentum towards an inclusive-participative labour relations model. We're going on with the interinity. The high interinity of public employment will also be reduced, and that is where I share your reflection. But for this we have the OPE announced for 10,000 places in all sectors, the Law of Bodies and Scales, which will undermine the stability of public jobs. The care. The need to place care at the centre is one of the great demands and also the need to value and distribute care equitably. And it is an objective set out in the 2030 Agenda and the Euskadi Equality Plan. And that's our goal. And in order to walk along this path, this budget provides for the extension of the Beti On teleassistance service; the promotion of Elkarrekin Zaintzen with three key projects: the European Union's cross-border innovation hub in longevity, the escalation of the OKencasa project to the whole of Euskadi and the promotion of local social and health care ecosystems. And I'm going on. More. In the area of equality and protection of women. I share your view that people are the fundamental element of political commitment in government action. People are important, and women are on this axis. To this end, in this 2021 budget, subsidies for women's associations are doubled. Programmes to prevent violence against women are promoted up to €300,000. The climbs in the Nahiko and Gizonduz programmes are noticeable. EUR 400,000 for the preparation of business equality plans. And I could go on, but as a closing figure, I do like to say that, according to the gender impact report on this budget, at least 9.10 % of this budget is going to be allocated to the gender perspective. Because the gender perspective is something cross-cutting in the budget and in the Basque Government. Eta, amaitzeko, gurumana. In the environment, with our climate agreement, the Basque Green Deal, with 30 actions. And for recent events, the 2030 Waste Prevention and Management Plan announced by Mrs Tapia, which will entail an investment of EUR 97 million, with the aim of converting 85% of non-hazardous waste into secondary resources and reducing to less than 15% those to be landfilled; a 30% reduction in waste generated in the next ten years in Euskadi. And in the future, with aid to companies to increase recycling, a fee to discourage spillage and to increase and improve the quality of environmental inspection and control. Also in this line, Euskadi Next, whose projects are aimed at the energy-ecological transition of 63 %, which exceeds 37 % marked by Europe. Or the digital transition, with 21%, a point higher than that marked by Europe. Beraz, kritika baliogabekoak. Begira orin irakurri berri doubiana, irakuriko disuet: "The Basque Government's green procurement and procurement programme, which has managed to green out 46% of the purchases of 38 agencies, awarded worldwide. The U.S. Council of Leadership in Sustainable Purchasing recognizes the Euskadi Executive as the best management in this field." Hori's got herds. Surely, all these objectives and budget allocations are broadly in line with their objectives. Ikusten duzuenez, SHESA bath haratago, badaudade ekintza asko egiteke, Gobernu honen ekinean dagoena. However, I'd like you to tell me that the government has offered you half the budget of the SHESA and that we don't have to do any new exploration requests in 2021. We have received your refusal. But not only in the reductions of the SHESA, but also of the actions of the environment which I have discussed, is to deny your refusal to those which are favorable to women and to the care of those who are interested in them. Because today it has been clearly shown that they are courageous budgets. And also very social. Thanks, among other actions and plans, to these budgets, Euskadi is a society with less inequality, and of the European regions with less poverty rate. Madrid, with a higher GDP per capita, is more unequal. While we must continue to make progress and, as we have reflected in our country's objectives, placing Euskadi among the five least unequal European countries. To achieve these rates, GIR plays a key role, increasing its amount in these budgets, forecasting an increase of 1.8%, a progressive and constant increase historically. You have proposed the same increase for non-contributory pensions in the State. How is your criticism justified? Have you done anything to reverse such a situation? But, in addition, you have argued in the General Courts that the importance of minimum living income is its protective value and not its amount. The GIR exceeds the minimum living income. Then it is curious that on this occasion, and here, its protective value is questioned. We bet on a policy to fight the pockets of poverty and try to eliminate the inequality, which we maintained in 1989 and which we continue to maintain. Most of the policies that you propose today, Mrs Gorrotxategi, fall under the competence of the State: decent employment, minimum living income, the labour market and its conversion. The same with energy prices. Do not confuse the plans, Mrs Gorrotxategi, you yourself have the task to move forward. And don't doubt it, here we will complement it, as we do with the ERTE aid. For this, we have these Euskadi budgets, which are more expansive than those supported by you in 2020, and more social than those presented by you this 2021 in the state. You will understand my astonishment. And even more so when your position contrasts with the initiative presented by you last September – on 22 September 2020 – in this House, urging the Basque Government and the political forces of this House to support the General Budgets of the State. You ask us to support your state budgets without seeing a number. But, instead, they do not accept them, even with a proposal for very social improvements and committed to the environment, with a clear fit in their political model. I'm just going on for the second round.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Passing on the answering round, together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Soso, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u37	Well, first of all, thank you very much for the explanations, counselor. Starting somewhere, I must say, Mrs Corcuera, that I grant you that one of the powers of magic is illusionism. And when you mention magic and at the same time talk about tax reforms, I have to tell you that you are teachers in tax illusionism, bearing in mind that you claim that you are in the direction of fiscal justice, while Euskadi marks the highest margins in the tax competitiveness kennels. It is located at the same time as Madrid. And it's hard to talk about fiscal justice when Euskadi sits on the tax competitiveness ravines in the highest sections. And it's true, it's not a question of guys. It is not only a question of types; it is also a question of tax engineering. And in this case, that is why we find ourselves in the highest sections of the tax competitiveness kennels. And that is where the agreements with the People's Party of 2018 lie. I do not know what that has to do in fiscal terms to achieve objectives in fiscal justice, to agree with the People's Party, and now also with Citizens, in fiscal matters. In fact, the People's Party has mentioned tax reforms and the need for tax reforms. Yes, and it would be opportune, and I have mentioned it more than once in committee, to clarify in which direction he wants these tax reforms to be directed. He says that in the negotiation we were given the opportunity to negotiate or talk about tax reform. Yes, exactly like what the government marks in its government agreement. That is to say, the government agreement marks that a tax reform will be carried out with a view to 2021, and that is what we proposed in the negotiation process, that we were going to deal with a process of talks within the framework of an agreement that you have already adopted in the government agreement. You see what they give us, absolutely nothing in terms of tax reform. Simply and plainly, they'll talk to us when the time comes. Well, what about it, huh? Let them talk to us when the time comes in relation to tax reform. Well, let's talk about the negotiating framework. Four days. And it has been labeled by the PNV representative as record time, a record time trading period. Yes, yes, he used that expression: record time. Even at a neighbor's meeting, you can't reach an agreement in four days. It is extremely difficult to reach an agreement on a budget of EUR 12 billion. Please, let's be serious. Taking into account also... And that is where there is the lack of commitment that you place on us, we see a lack of commitment on your part that our political formation reached an agreement with you in 2020, yes. We request information regarding compliance with the agreement. How long did they take to answer? Months in reply in relation to compliance with the 2020 agreement with our political formation. Subsequently, once they answered, here we express the non-compliances that we consider to have been established in relation to the 2020 budgetary agreement. Nothing, no answer in that matter. When they talk about 97 million in the negotiating process, how many of them are just commitments made in 2020 and not met? They are well aware that a good figure of that 97 million is budgetary agreements adopted in 2020 that have not been met. And what you have done is to throw the ball forward and say: "Well, as in 2020 it was agreed, now in 2021 it should also be agreed, because you have to be consistent with what you were manifesting in 2020 in relation to the budgets, because now, in your opinion, you are much more expansive. For us it should be much more, because it does not even rub the reference rate agreed in the Joint Commission. How is it possible that at a time of war economy practically, at a time of pandemic, not even the reference rate is reached for debt and making use of as much public spending as possible for the public sector to lead as it has to lead economic recovery? Given the waves that are taking place in relation to the covid, it is likely that there will be no such recovery from the private sector. And you do, you bet on recovery from the private sector. But it is also true that, even in the context of aid, the Basque Government feels that it wants the private sector to recover the economy in this country. Most of the aid provided by the Basque Government is guarantees, is guarantees, uses the financial sector by endorsing such aid by the Basque Government, and that is nothing less than trying to put in the private sector the lifesavers of the economy in the medium term, and, from our point of view, it is not going to be possible, it is not going to be possible in the future. But the negotiating framework is not that it comes only in relation to the 2021 budgets. When we were talking about European funds, which have also been mentioned here, we denounced the attitude of the Basque Government with regard to the agreements on European funds. Of the 66 proposals we made in a full monograph, none were approved, but, moreover, the negotiation period was also, and let me say so, a joke. We were told three days earlier, on a weekend, that we were going to exchange the documents in order to try to reach an agreement, and in the end we reached the last moment in the monographic plenary talking about 66 resolutions on our part. And obviously no agreement was reached, because there was no intention of reaching any agreement by the Basque Government, or, in this case, by the parties supporting the Basque Government. We arrived at a scenario in relation to European funds, but also in relation to the 2021 budget, pretending that we would adopt a decision of responsibility at the last moment, theoretically accepting what the Basque Government presented to us – which was, come on, the panacea! – both in relation to European funds and now. In relation to the European funds, we went to a full monograph, the result of the action of the opposition, of a specific group of the opposition. We also went to a committee – which is basically the only thing the Basque Government has done in relation to this matter – we went to a committee in which the Basque Government expressed very little new in relation to European funds. And with the issue of budgets we are in exactly the same scenario: we have gone to a four-day negotiating process, bearing in mind that we are a political formation with which an agreement was reached in 2020. Four days to reach an agreement. Let me tell you that I believe that you thought that we had no willingness to agree, that there would be no possibility or margin of agreement. But there was the agreement of Gasteiz, of Vitoria, and we believe that as a result of the agreement of Gasteiz they said: "They have no vertigo anyway, just as it is possible for them to compromise from the opposition. In Gasteiz it was made, and then, by parallelism, they will have willingness and ability to agree at the autonomic level. Of course, in Gasteiz they've been negotiating for two months, us in four days, because... When the agreement was reached in Gasteiz they said, "Well, it's also possible," and they don't have that vertigo that you think we are, and they could have reached an agreement. In the end, obviously for the times and for the inability to acquire certain political commitments that would exceed the movements of departures, in many cases, as I said before, unfulfilled commitments of 2020, for the inability to acquire commitments beyond that framework, because it was not possible. And I am speaking to you in these terms because, beyond the pretty words of the beginning of your speeches, I believe that afterward you have made a fierce criticism of the attitude of our political formation in relation to the negotiating process that we believe is, frankly, quite unfair. We did go with a desire to negotiate and agree, with a platform that was then translated into a counterproposal that contained very little of our initial proposal. But we have indeed had a negotiating will and a negotiating attitude. We believe that what has not been done is a commitment on the part of the Basque Government to try to negotiate long before and also to clarify certain issues that were on the table, such as the 2020 non-compliances. Our political formation, our space, wanted a plan to publish the residences, to reverse the privatizations that Osakidetza has undergone, a guaranteed employment plan that would allow to sustain the internal aggregate demand. We are also talking about fiscal reform, certainly not in the terms in which the People's Party intends to do so. Also that we apply a certain political imagination, get out of formulas spent as in the big consultants, defining what are our country's structural plans, as happened with European funds. We regret that the final result was this, but we believe that it was essential to put forward our alternative, and through the formula of the amendment as a whole, as we have proposed. In any case, we and we do extend our sincere hand to them so that we can reach agreements, but with the necessary time limits, with the degree of sincerity also necessary. And from there, I'm sure we can understand each other. But, of course, do not say that this process in record time has been a determined bet on the part of the Basque Government to reach agreements, because on our part it has not been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u38	Thank you, Mr. Soto. To answer, the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u39	Thank you, President. Look, Mr Soto, the Basque Socialists regret the return to the political vertigo of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita. The legitimacy of the discrepancy can be understood, also the political criticism and the position against even some accounts, how not, and above all when these accounts are treated as continuists. But the Basque Socialists cannot understand that at such an exceptional moment the political and partisan strategy is prioritized by Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unitada, with a banal justification of non-compliance with agreements, falling, moreover, into the contradiction of cutting these budgets by their continuous base, when it was precisely Elkarrekin Podemos who, on the basis of the budgetary agreement, supported the budgets for Euskadi of 2020. Look, his colleague Lander Martínez said, justifying this support for the 2020 budgets and when the coronavirus was nothing more than a very incipient and marginal news in the media, Mr Lander Martínez said: "There is no doubt that we are living at a time when the way in which we face global challenges and our own challenges will lay the foundation for the Euskadi of the future. Therefore, Basque politics faces the same dilemma as global politics: stagnating in fossilised debates or moving forward. Immobilism or impulse. And political forces must decide what position they should take in the construction of the future. Either to stand on the sidelines, confronting and noting the failure of any decision and policy with which one disagrees, or to be an active part, developing proposals to shape the future from the principles that are defended." And we regret the Basque Socialists that their decision was not a proactive and collaborative decision with these 2021 budgets. The Basque Socialists believe that the effort made by the Basque Government in this budget negotiation has been a major effort; it has offered improvements, it has offered new economic items in health, in care for people, on equal terms, in gender-based violence, in education, in housing, in employment, in industry, in the environment, in energy efficiency, in protection and social inclusion. A budget agreement with an impact for 2021 of EUR 89 million, and, in addition, another kind of more political commitment within our area of competence. And all this, that effort, was to achieve more support, broader support at this time so complicated for Basque society even though it did not need numerically more support than those granted by the absolute majority of Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups. And we have tried, the Basque Socialists have tried with sincerity, honesty, courage and, moreover, intensity. Because we truly believe that we are faced with such an exceptional situation that it would have required more attention from the parliamentary groups in this House. So, the socialists are not going to regret it anymore. And since there is no time to waste, today we reject the amendment to the whole of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, so that the processing of these accounts will continue by 2021. Because the important thing for the Basque Socialists is that these budgets allow us to face this newly initiated 2021 with that strength and political and economic basis sufficient to deal with the economic and health crisis generated by this pandemic, to settle the present, to look to the future with certainty and institutional and budgetary stability. These budgets are the way for such social reconstruction and for economic recovery and employment in Euskadi, without leaving anyone behind. And the Socialists are fully involved in this. You said, Mr Soto, that the illusionists must be the Basque Socialists. Not at all, not at all. Look, you haven't contributed in the past legislature – or now, as far as I can see – you haven't contributed anything, when you were able to influence fiscal reform and the monographic debate on the fiscal issue and taxation that we dealt with in that plenary in the past legislature, because the opposition had a majority and could have influenced that plenary, and you didn't, you didn't. So the responsibility... No, don't do that. The responsibility is yours, it is yours, it was yours; they did not know how to influence or reach agreements. Therefore, they are not worth lamenting and they are not worth false complaints or victimisms. Secondly, the issue of non-compliance is that no one has given them an answer. Listen, look, I've even been present at a full check where the lehendakari here said what the fulfillments were, reasonable compliance with the agreements that had been reached in the 2020 budgets with his parliamentary group. Therefore, if even the lehendakari in this rostrum has responded to his concerns, even at the meeting he held with his political coalition, by his political group. Listen, stop lamenting, stop lamenting, it's never always the fault of others. There's also something you'll have had to take responsibility for. So... And as for the maximum reference rate – and I finish, President –... Let us see, the accounts must be managed with rigour and responsibility, because this does not end here, the budgets and the legislature do not start and end today with this subject of amendments to the whole, there are four years of development of the legislature. It is going to have a lot of consequences coming to this maximum that we have come from indebtedness raised in the budgets, there is a lot of time left, and there are many generations that will have to deal with what we are deciding today. Therefore, I asked them for responsibility and height of sight, because it is worth playing well where it is governed, but it is also very important to play where it is not governed, and therefore the Basque Socialists would have asked them for responsibility. They haven't been up to it. I'm sorry, Mr. Soto. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. In politics there are two fundamental pillars: the main thing is that politics is the art of what is possible, and, secondly, that you have to accept your relative position. In the Basque Nationalist Party we are aware of our relative position; for example, in Madrid, where using our position, we have reached agreements to improve the well-being of Euskadi: more spending and investment, more social rights and more self-government. On the other hand, in Euskadi we find an opposition that does not use its relative position and do not agree with the Basque Government for its staged fear. You have already said that the Basque Nationalist Party was the caspian right. Is it right to have promoted the most profound system of social action in the Spanish State, which devotes most to RGI, to conciliation aid, to the reception of immigrants, to social housing, to education, to public health and to gender equality? I think you should redefine your conception of the Basque Nationalist Party. On July 12, Basque citizenship decided which parties it trusts and also decided the parliamentary weight of each of us. The numbers sing, and trying to disqualify the party with more representation of this House implies disqualifying the Basque citizen who has placed his trust in us. Let me add a pillar of my own that I believe must have politics: respect. Because when it is lost, we run the risk of giving way to totalitarian and dangerous drifts. I don't know if these budgets are neo-liberal, ordo-liberal, neo-communist... What I do know is that they are budgets to deal with a very complicated year, which unfortunately will continue to be marked by the covid and its health, economic and social consequences. That is why I quote again the COVID programme, with a budget of 542 million euros. These budgets that we are debating today will stimulate economic and employment recovery, strengthen all our public policies, without setbacks or cuts, with more investment and more spending. And yes, budget drawn up in record time – which is what I meant, Mr Soto. Prepared in four months, being the usual six, and negotiated with sincerity. If it takes two months to negotiate, then we will go to the investiture of Mr Lehendakari. But I have to tell you that time is not relevant. The proposals and the will are what has value and that is what the Basque Government has done: clear proposals that fit into its political model. And with regard to the Elkarrekin agreement We can of the financial year 2020, I simply have to tell you that they were fulfilled and answered in time and form and time. But the level of compliance and non-compliance is already a value judgment. Therefore, do not use it as an excuse in view of your immobile stance. We have an unstable economic environment, as a result of the covid, a rabid foreign policy situation, many factors and actors, and in our hands there is the possibility of political stability, certainty and serenity. Political stability as a value to give tranquillity to people, certainty to promote long-term investments and serenity in the sense of making a diagnosis of reality with calm, being all aware of the situation we live in. This Government offers a courageous and very social budget in a very complicated situation. A budget that with a political will could have been endorsed by practically the whole of this House. You know that these are reasonable budgets, economically and socially, which could have been adjusted with clear political will and high-mindedness. In their justification they claim that the Basque Government has not reached the deficit and debt limits reached in the agreement of 30 September in the Joint Commission, and they demand that these limits be exhausted. If they were somewhat more precise in the calculation, on the basis that Euskadi's GDP stood at 72 billion, not 80 billion, they would note that the debt increase of 1,785 million is the figure that would exhaust that reference rate. But yet we all wish we had more resources, but the situation is difficult. All desire is not fulfilled, even if it is good, it must be prior. Necessity is great, and means, desire, and not will, are limited. But, yes, resorting to this indebtedness, ladies and gentlemen of Elkarrekin We can, it is not a patch, it is the application of an expansive policy, of activating demand, of giving even more resources to social protection, health and education. What we are not is dogmatic of austerity... nor asphyxiation of austerity, nor excess in indebtedness. If not, look at Japan. It will be the debt necessary to carry out our public policies, we escape the dogmas. We know which country we want, a country project that is already needed. And I read to you in an executive way our 10 country objectives: to reduce unemployment below 10%; to exceed 40% of GDP in industry and advanced services; to achieve convergence in R & D with the European average; to place Euskadi among the five European countries with the lowest social inequality; to position Euskadi among the six European countries with the highest rate of gender equality; to consolidate the school drop-out rate below 7% and to advance the knowledge and use of Basque; to increase life expectancy up to 85 years; to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30%; to ensure that the share of renewable energy accounts for 20% of final energy consumption, and Azkenik, to increase birth rates by 10%. This is our country project. But not only indebtedness, they demand the Basque Government to reverse the 2008 tax reform. First, tax reviews are carried out on the basis of the economic situation, which is obviously not the same in 2018 and 2020 – in this regard, the document published by the OECD in relation to the fiscal policy to be followed in the current crisis of the covid, which supports the position of the Basque Government. Secondly, the Basque Government has committed itself to moving forward in the design of a new tax system and to reflecting on the pending tax reform, appropriate to the new reality and geared towards greater progressiveness, which aims at fiscal convergence in Europe and allows it to adapt to the economy and emerging challenges, including environmental criteria. But that is the relevance that you attach to a tax review, which, when offered to your group in the negotiation of these budgets, rejected it. And not only that, is that the tax model they apply in Euskadi being opposition and the tax model they propose in Spain being part of the government, is quite different. Here they propose to raise the IRPF, even more so, when Euskadi, after Navarra, is the community with a higher marginal type of IRPF, or raise the type of corporate tax, when here we already have a mechanism for the effective rate to be equal to the nominal rate. And in Spain they do not even propose it; or in Navarre, being part of the Government, they propose to EH Bildu what the Basque Government offers to their group in the negotiation of the Basque Budgets, and here they do not accept it. Can such different speeches be made depending on where you are sitting? Can you even change the tax model when you cross the Ebro? Our goal has always been the same here, in Madrid and in Europe, we do not change. In this crisis, our goal has been to keep the country open, because what the hospitality, the trade, the travel agencies want is to work, and what the boys and girls want is to go to class to study face-to-face. And that has been our bet, always keeping a balance between health, social and economic. And when it has not been possible, we have supported, and will continue to support, the sectors most affected. As an example, the new programme of financial support for SMEs and self-employed people, a programme with incentives to various sectors worth EUR 15 million. And this same week, support measures for the tourism sector have been announced. But, in addition, the adviser has already announced this week that they are working on a plan for the most affected sectors of trade and a new programme of assistance to Basque hospitality. And the same is true of betting in strategic sectors, as we have always done. I remind you that when the industry was dirty, the Basque Nationalist Party bet on it, and so we are now among the most industrialized regions. The situation is difficult and we will continue to support the Basque industry. Badauzkagu baliabideak sektore strategiko horietan egoteko, Ezten edo Finkatuz funtsen bidez ere bai, baina beti errealistak izanez. I only ask for consistency and honesty with the citizens. And no, it's not good or bad to abound in the contrast, it's just the ethical substrate of every behavior. And you can be revolutionary, but leaving aside the time of noise and amplifying collective anger.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u42	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u43	Yes, soon. Thank you. A French political veteran who after a Trotskyist youth will be the candidate, for the third time, from the radical left to the presidency of the Republic, was asked in November about his position before the pandemic and the management of the Macron government. He replied: "The task of the opposition, of which we do not agree on how to manage the crisis, is complicated, because we cannot appeal to the disobedience of the protest. The insumious have gone beyond the time of noise and fury, to stir up and amplify cholera, a source of anti-capitalist and ecological awareness. Today we think that distressed societies tend to unite, to help each other. What we propose only makes sense if it helps us all get out of the crisis together. That does not rule out conflict, but puts it in the background. The idea is to be a factor of order rather than a factor of disorder." Eta amaitzeko, president andrea... You have to put aside the permanent grudge, the protest for the protest. Wanting to do harm to any misfortune or reprehensible fact demonstrates the political project of each formation; what they cannot do with a political project, they want to do with the pandemic. But we at ours, with a clear bet on health in these budgets. Beraz, amaitzeko, we are all tired of the pandemic, and the professionals of Osakidetza too. I see your concern. Therefore, since March, an emotional support program for professionals is under way to help in this situation of uncertainty and stress. Therefore, considering all of the above, remember the message of the politician of the French radical left. The idea is to be a factor of order rather than a factor of disorder. Construction and dialogue in the face of confrontation, union and consensus in the face of destruction. Respect. Hori da bidea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. The Representative of the EH Group, holds the word in order to defend its full correction. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u45	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Congressmen, Mr. Substude, good noon. Before we start, a small message of solidarity and love to our spokesman Irror of Maddalen and his relatives, and of course to the chief of Arzia Tapia. And a close embrace for everyone who is affected by the covida in one way or the other. What now? In this emotional chaos that we're living in this sanitary, social and economic crisis, there are a lot of people who ask that question to themselves. What now? More and more, this year when chaos started, too. The Araba, the Gipulia, and the Bices are becoming more red, and more and more are the towns and cities that are about to enter or enter the black lists. All the indicators up, almost out of control. The health workers, exhausted, live like a tsunami that can come. When the host waits to dig through the next barrill, for an indefinite time on the black list, to calculate when to close the transaction to the top of the debt. The workers of Aeronautics, the ITP, Alestes, and Aernnova see the fireworks dancing. The villagers are afraid of him who is coming. The relatives of the residents of the Residence see that no reinforcements are available in any case, and they see that the means are not arrived. The children, on the other hand, have been interrupted by the sports of the school, and the young see the future becoming blacker and blacker. The red state of health, the black social situation and the budget project has no light at all. Today, in the words of Mr. Subauzu, not a grip. What now? That's the question that comes to their mind, and, as I'm told by Iranti Mogollón Garcí, a feminist sociologist and economist, you can see no direction behind that question. It's a sign of the fragility of life's projects. The Pandemia has been worried about the present, but also about the future. More challenges are hidden behind that question than I thought. We pointed this out in September when this government was to be formed: never before have so many people been unable to predict their future. And therefore, they need to receive firm and clear answers from the institutions. That is certainly the most important mission of this Government, that of providing certainty, protecting and caring for people. I think we shouldn't lose sight of people watching us, looking for answers, looking for the security we're talking about so much. The people must feel that the institutional authorities are here, government and opposition, working to protect and protect them. It's time for answers to give clear answers, as we've repeated over and over again. And be careful, for want of answers, want of clear answers, despair and disinfection rise, and this seems very dangerous to the neophascist discourse. Let's not lose sight of that. Wrong public policies can incite society to a battle of all against all, in search of an individual lifesaver; a race fraught with scarce resources, for services, for vaccines. It is also possible with policies to correct, renew and strengthen a mutually supportive pact that generates community. The latter demands a government determined to use collective resources to protect each and every one of the people. Because, Mr. Azpiazu, don't forget, you told us, certainties are expensive, but lack of certainties is even more expensive. We hold the discussions of the ancients in an unusual situation, you said it yourself. Due to the situation created by COVID-19, we are involved in a crisis which has no precedent, and at the same time social, economic, and ecological indicators which showed the necessity of modification have been accelerated. The present and the future are at this moment at stake. Our village is at a crossroads, with multiple complex tensions in every direction. That's why it's essential to read the strategic dimension of the moment. It is not only a question of answering a crisis of health, but it is necessary to realize that the decisions which we now take and not receive will be conditioned by the next generation, and that the size of the hinges is directly connected with politics and, properly speaking, public politics. Therefore, with the introduction of virus and the guarantee of health, the necessary measures in the social and economic area must be taken to make it more effective, to create certainties and to protect the people. But at the same time, we must begin to prepare the future, to face the romances presented to us in this historic moment of transformation as a people, applying a new view to public policies, with a gaze of a longer and middle-term out of the teaching of this and previous crisis. As the secretary of Unaido Costrons in Oberas has said recently: "Now is the time to decide the policies after the pandemese." We're playing a lot. We're at a crossroads as a society. The answer to what we are experiencing must come in part from these budgets, but above all it will come from the strategic decisions that we make and that can make the future drawn under other conditions. To that end, we should be able to dialogue and reach minimum agreements. Yes, political agreements. That's exactly what we offered with our proposal, a deal on this year's budget, but it's an offer to agree with the columns of change in medium and length. This offer included the budget, the European funds, and the prosecution, which, according to the three columns of this practice, was to be made. An indefatigable exercise, which does not forget that things didn't go so well before the pandemic. The covid, indeed, has put our lives up, but, before the pandemic, many of the essential or elementary indicators in cohesion had worrying values, such as data on precariousness, the risk of poverty, unemployment, R & D+i, social inequalities, the gender gap. Signs of an inefficient recovery from the previous crisis, with Caritas warning of the risk of a society breaking down on its bases. The OECD itself warned of the progressive disappearance of the middle class, the result of a process of concentration of wealth in the upper layers of society, with increasingly asymmetrical distribution of wealth, which condemns broad social sectors to what we might call aspirational decline, a progressive reduction of expectations or, in other words, to conform with less and less. Instead of re-adjusting the mechanisms of wealth sharing, the system's legitimization instruments push us to re-evaluate our expectations from resignation and conformism. Now, the goal is mileurism or an unemployment rate of 10%. This Government has been, and is, a strong advocate of aspirational decline and a strong enemy of changing trends. For this government, it is never a matter of confronting the greed of the employer, nor of reforming taxation to impose more on those who have more. At this moment, the most important event of fun is to take care of people, protect them, and create conditions for a hopeful future. More than ever you have to show the leadership and determine the strategic course by taking the village around your neck. This necessarily requires that it should be a clear and definite object, and that the execution of them should be made at the same time public, communal, or private agents. In other words, activate popular intelligence. As a nation without a state, there is need in our case for new instruments and hands. And to deep down them, to protect people and better economy, to create a new political state. For amongst the lessons left behind by the legemine, there is need of resolution, and of independence. How to confide, move, insert, protect, owen, return, or distribute directly the European funds. It's a long list. At all events, we accepted the strategic character and agreed to 2020 budgets. In an unusual situation, we saw the need to do the whole unusual political exercise. I'm afraid we didn't see anything about it. We have not seen that he has had the will to speak in these parameters. And this reveals to us a doubt: We do not know that you do not understand the size of the situation, or the strategic dimension of the moment, or the idea of reaching what comes, that you have no plans to offer to this people, who have no plans for the future. And I don't know which of them is worse. But the reality is very clumsy, and very crude, and we could say that it has almost destroyed with all the forecasts that the Government has put into this draft budget. The Government has submitted regular budgets for a totally extraordinary situation. Mr Azpiazu's presentation today makes it clear: a flat, almost technocratic, presentation of the items covered by this budget. We were telling you about the entire budget for the past year, that when you're talking about it, it's a model for the budget, it's like the whole company doesn't seem relevant to it, apart from the direct influence the economic situation's funding. Neither pandemy, nor the almost unprecedented crisis that we are experiencing, nor the new wants which have arisen, nor the threats that have been struck and accelerated, have changed that. In a situation quite unusual, with more quantities, it is the same estimate of the budget which the eternal answer presents to us. "An ambitious project", "rainaldiaren aldeko apustua egiten duena", esan duzu zuk lehen, but we have been presented with a budget that has already been surpassed by reality. A budget designed for the final straight of the pandemic, but the data show that, unfortunately, the health crisis and its consequences are going to widen. And, therefore, we should have a budget in line with that reality. This draft budget was built on the idea that the storm would pass and within a few months would have been overcome. Mr Azpiazu himself, in an answer to a parliamentary question put by our group, replied that this budget has budgeted for extraordinary operating expenses caused by the pandemic, initially for the first months of the financial year. Did this government foresee that it would have to face a wave of dimensions like the one we are living in, worse than that of autumn? Well, in view of the budget, of course not. With very positive predictions, too positive, it's a process that's been introduced to you by funk. I'd say today that positivism has been a little lowered by Mr. Subaezu. But in any case, for instance, this positivism is far from what BBVA or CEB did. In the face of so unstable a situation, it is important to foresee all the scenes, even the bad ones. And that's what I didn't do. According to all the looks, it'll take longer than I thought, and the budget's not planned for that. Warning that something's going to go wrong doesn't mean you want it. This does not go from "the worse, the better", but from pointing out the need to anticipate, to avoid it or mitigate its consequences. Paint a rainbow that makes everything go well, because it can be very motivating, but it does not apply to a government that is bound to foresight, anticipation. Thinking that something is going to happen just for wanting it, because it's wishful thinking. These budgets, announced as the best in history, do not contemplate the possibility of the situation we are experiencing. They don't look at her. The hangover from this wave has already dragged this budget before it was approved. Por Games, vemos que in the health world, for instance, there are 4.183.9 million this year. More money? Yeah. But is the effort you plan for so much? Well, we don't think so. If we compare it with the real budget of 2020, with the one we've spent on pandemy in 2020, it's only an increase of 48,8 million. That's all that effort. From the present situation, it seems difficult to restore the time or normality of Osapartics to this budget. And it seems difficult that it can be fulfilled with what the councilwoman herself said to be able to resume those projects that have slowed down and the actions that were postponed by the covid. Today, almost certainly, I haven't had the opportunity to see the data, but the number of people admitted to ICUs will exceed the peak of the fall wave. Galdera da: aurrekontu-proiektuak egoera hau izango zela aurreikusten zuen? No, the truth is, the truth is, the truth is, the truth is, the truth is, And there are already three large Basque hospitals that have been forced to suspend operations. Things aren't going well in Osakidetza. The counselor herself had recently acknowledged that the pressure was felt in all hospitals, and understood that the situation was both risky and uncertain. And the budget does not provide answers to such situations. Can you really explain to them all those professionals in the sanitary world where they are drowned, and who are giving their best share, those who have applauded at eight o'clock in the street, those who filled the streets yesterday? Can you explain the doctor's attention to the locals who are supposed to receive him on the phone? Or can you explain it to anyone who's waiting for an operation? Or to him who has hope in vaccination, and who is ashamed and angry of what he has been through these days? Can you explain that the situation has passed and that this budget is not prepared to respond to what we're living in? Same thing in education. Equally. Compared to the real budget of 2020, 76,3 million this year, increase more than 2,5 years ago. Will you explain this to the members of the educational community who have made a terrible effort to make sure spaces? Where are the attempts to overcome the teachings and the privations of which the pandemies have been exposed to education? Where are they? Merkataritza eta turismoari dagokionez, guretzat deigarriena since 2020an egindako exfortzua aurrekontu hauetatik desagertu egin her. An insufficient effort in this project has disappeared. I imagine that many of you have come to this session on foot and have seen how many locals are closed. Many of them won't open their doors again. It would be better, in this case, for all those people to have the budget extended. Deigarria da, deigarria da 2020an 100 million inguru spent sektore kaltetuak konpentsatzeko, bath 2021eko aurrekontuetan herdia bath ez aurreikustaa. Beraz, gauzak okertuz gero, okertu direen moduan, ez da laguntzarik aurreikusten, nahiz eta jakin datozen filabete luceetan sektore askok ezingo dutela jardun normaltasunez. The spokesman, Zupiria, said yesterday: "I have not listened to anyone," he said, "advantage that the situation before summer would be eased." Oh, no? So why is it not foreseen in these budgets? Yesterday's data: 59% of the aid applications raised in the previous closure have not been collected. The hoteliers are on the edge. Itxuraz, Ostalaritza, tourism edo merkataritzako krisia amaitutzat eman du Jaurlaritzak. It seems that the Government has decided to outsource the cost of the pandemic, among others, among the hoteliers. Azalduko ten hours of the hostage? Egun battik beast eremu gorrian sartuta berten tavern itxi beharko had ten ore arizaratela loanzen hour of bideratutako were you? This pandemia has also produced an immense influence upon employment. The danger of a mass impoverishing of workers is apparent. 41.000 are the workers who are at this moment in the ERTA. But less than the average is the budget of the Bureau's budget in this situation, though this was your first engagement on the page before you mentioned it. Was that zer eskaintzen day aurrekontu-proiektuak wasbateko ziurgabetasunean daden to the langilea? Ba, 150 eurotara iristen ez den ERTEen osagarri bat, with a coverage of around 5,000 workers; far away from the 44,000 who pledged to protect. By the way, another failure in a long list of aid that never arrived. And when uncertainty wins in whole in Araba, Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia, to be able to quickly modify our protection system, as other countries have done, we do not even talk about that. Well, anyway, if it's to keep the cuts, that's what it's for. Because this budget keeps the cuts in income guarantee income. Well, let them know that Oxfam was talking these days about some 28,000 Basques and Basques more than they're going to be in poverty now. They lose weight in these budgets, the promotement of women's choice, youth, housing policy, culture and social services. Society services... when they are living the most serious crisis in their history. And then there's a COVID program. The origin of this program is to be understood in the sale of what the budgets reply to the crisis of the covid, in order to give a view to certain expenditures. 242 million, 3,2% of the budget, because, first of all, you've told us 140 million of them, unless there's no surprise, they won't spend it. Not much in our opinion. And Councillor Azpiazu also mentioned R & D+i, in which they no longer propose to us to recover positions towards the countries that are in the first division, but to conform here also with reaching the average. The biggest budget in history, the biggest decade debt, the largest growth, the closeness of power, the terrible effort... It's called "a big rain and a big bag." In such cases as these the means are said to be finite, there is an excuse commonly used. But is it a matter of resource? Well, not this year, because we're in an unusual situation this year. There are also foundations from Europe that have already been signed, concretely 426 million roubles, experienced. It's true that he's made a choice for his debt in these budgets. It is true that in the last few years the method of election has ended, even once in a while. You know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. The truth is, my dear friend, that the course marked by Europe and other countries has been followed by a simple succession of steps, and that it has not been made in proportion as the situation demands it, nor in proportion as the rules around it may have fallen. We are speaking of a reasonable debt, fitted for protection, and united with the deliberations of the prosecution. Because we are aware that mere madness can endanger the solidarity of generations, and because it has left us experience of the previous crisis. It's enough for you to forget to give more money like COVID rates. And he doesn't want to talk about a deep-faving attorney, but for another reason it's not his turn. In fact, even if the means were at hand, he refused to place all these resources on the table. The adviser himself, when presenting the budget proposal, assured that if necessary, the expenditure could be increased. Gaur era esan duzu, horretan ez duzuela zalantzarik izango. They talk about needs like they're hypothetical, don't they? And I think this is probably the key. This is the key: the perception of what is needed, that perception of what is needed. The government is in "if there is a need", and, for Euskal Herria Bildu, at the moment the needs are so pressing, they are so obvious, so urgent – and I sincerely believe that citizens also think so – that we believe that in this context we must put all available resources in order to provide answers. We don't understand what else you have to go through, Mr. Azpiazu. The consequences are obvious, the citizens live their own fur: The chronicness, improvisation, lack of control, the fatigue and frustration of workers, the mutations and strikes of public or vast private sectors, without any response, and the confusion and anger of society. Too many symptoms, a sign that doesn't make enough effort. And the budgetary negotiation, the budgetary procedure this year has been precisely that, more than ever, a mere procedure to feed a story that the government has been building for months. The budget center began to predict the settlement, but the government hasn't made it. There will be issues, even before the tramit was guaranteed, but the government has failed in the designs imposed on itself by the consent of the Government. You're all alone. The government of dialogue – which begins, if any, with all its phrases recalling that it has an absolute majority – says it has the will to extend the agreements around the budgets because it considers that that would be good to send a signal to the citizens, but rejects the proposal of Euskal Herria Bildu without even sitting down to discuss it. Egia esan, ez da berria, Euskal Herria Bilduk, alde horretatik, azken hilabete luceetan egindako saiakerak antzeko bidetik joan dira. Unlike the oraiingoan bai, izan dugula weretzuna – this argigarria bear, ez?–, Jaurlaritza honen obsessio guztiak and drink authoritarian agerian utilten dituena. Politika publikoak baldintzatu nahi leporatzen zaigu. That the proposal is overly politicized. Anyway, it's a laugh. We are in a Parliament, the budgets are a tool that is po-li-ti-ca. The government comes to tell us, literally, that regardless of whether our proposal could improve some of the public policies put forward in the draft Budgets, the proposal does not incorporate the dose of political-economic realism sufficient to understand the role that an opposition political party must play in relation to the 2021 accounts. And he has told us again today: the government to govern and the opposition to Parliament. Some one might have thought, on hearing you, that it's a marination of conversation and settlements around the middle and long-term strategic grounds. But, for instance, the treaty of Toledo is in effect. You take part in it, and so do we. And what he had to say was... It's not that Mrs. Idion Mountain is here, but it was set up by socialists, so Sánchez put it on, right? In Madrid he proposed the origin of the Reconstruction Table. And what was he looking for? A minimum consent in the average and long-term planning. I don't know what that has in the navy. This constant attempt to deny a conversation about decisions that might be strategic to this people shows how limited your standard of government is. You made it clear that undergraduate in his answer, and that today you have sought hedges in this process, not agreements. And more clearly, you don't want anything with the Basque People gathering. Maybe because we're an emergent force because we're a growing force. You didn't say no to our proposal, you said no to the Basque People. Perhaps he thinks that this government hurts our image, somehow spoils it. But here are the citizens who are injured. What is serious is not that they tell us that they do not, but that they do a partisan calculation, rather than a country's needs, and say that they do not tell our proposals knowing that they connect with the needs of citizens, are viable, are achievable and are necessary. That's the big deal. Anyway, I'm sure today's show is good to clear up a lot of accounts we haven't explained to you before. For instance, I don't know why, for instance, you can't strengthen your health system by using the 140 million that's been held up without destiny. Why these 140 million can't be activated to reinforce our first attention and, for example, to accelerate the process of excretion. He has not explained to us why we cannot use part of the remaining budget they have in the box. For example, we proposed 200 million to rescue the sectors most affected by the pandemic: hoteliers, traders, self-employed, SMEs... Why can't it be done if it's already been done in the pandemic? You really don't think there's need? The Government also has to explain to residents of the residences and their families why it abdicates its functions in the planning of social services; why it is not going to do everything in its hands so that the ratios and conditions to which Gipuzkoa is already applying – not even a revolution – can be extended in the residences of Araba and Bizkaia; why, if we are so proud of our protection system, the Government does not want to make the necessary changes to adapt it and offer a guaranteed and legal response to all those people who are in the greatest uncertainty. Why, being 42% unemployed young, 4%, it would be given to a program for bulky youthful oppositions that would be considered under the values of a negative condition. And, of course, you must explain to us why you can't talk about the European funds. Why they're out of these budget frames and today you've dedicated a large part of your speech to talk about it. Why can't we discuss European funds, as you say, if there are these funds that will come to make these budgets more efficient? Indeed, why can't we discuss the funds of Europe when our voices are clearly determined, and the pamama opening in Madrid is very strong. To the point at which the Representative of EAJ in Congress yesterday asked the Government of Sánchez: nautCambi's su modus operandi el cipe, the argumente antes de traer los decretoshu; que anda su ideaant en el Congreso propuestas hurturstas. The interview you ask for in Madrid and the consensus you don't practice at all here. You tell us that you only want to decide the decades to come. Look, you have a whole majority, but you don't own the future of this country, and you won't be in this government forever. There may be others in the Government, and you ought to go deep too. And, of course, the Government also has to explain to us why in the context of the budget debate we cannot talk about taxation and we could talk about taxation when budgets were approved with the People's Party to lower taxes on large companies in exchange for their support for the accounts. The "now does not touch" or that "this is outside the budgetary framework" because it no longer applies. We need to talk about who and how he's going to pay the bill for this crisis, and we need to talk about it without delay. And I also think it is very important, because the previous crisis has left us with a lot of learning in this regard. This government has a full majority. That's very clear. You always make it very clear to us. You use this absolute majority, and it's legitimate. But the government is weak, its weaknesses are more visible than ever, and they are spoken of. And besides, there's something troubling about it, and it's so often and too often that it's not capable of doing the part of the neighbourhood that's talked of. In any case, to conclude, as I have said, this very extraordinary state demands an extraordinary answer, namely, which at first takes up the reality as a whole, and includes both the wants and challenges of the present and the future years, which renders the support of the citizens' protection and the modification of their economic model, and which directs them to those who have more compensation in the crisis. In a word, the answer that is summed up in our integrated proposition that is realistic and willing to offer certainty. Unfortunately, it's clear that that this integrated perspective doesn't fit in the narrow frame of budget that's made by Amazing. And this is not a budgetary framework problem, not even an economic viability problem, because we have shown that our proposals are achievable, they are viable, they are desirable. The problem is that the needs of citizens do not fall within the budgetary framework of this Government. The problem is not the budgetary framework, it is the mental framework of this Government, which does not want to have the opposition in any area of decision-making. We hate these budgets in shape and in the past. They have no support for us at all, Mr. Subalzu, although you suggested otherwise in a headline. And that's why the Basque People collects a whole budget bill and we're asking you to come back to me. We believe that even when we see the situation above us, it would be an exercise that you have to do. I'd like to finish up with a few words from Jon Mai. He said that a small being on Twitter has been telling us for a short time that we are not so great and that we are not so much of the gods, especially of social justice, of economy, of public service or association. Therefore, because the reasons for this change are not wanting, because it is possible to protect our society, and begin to build the future under other conditions, because it is necessary and urgent, with all our zeal and commitment, we will continue to give the best of our men and women of the Basque Country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. In the opposite round, Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u47	President, the Basque Socialists are following with interest the demonstrations of Euskal Herria Bildu in the days leading up to the budget negotiation meeting. We continue with interest, Mrs Kortajarena, the assessment made by Euskal Herria Bildu at that first meeting, the presentation to the media of his comprehensive socio-economic proposal before giving it to the Government and its manifestations by dismissing the agreement for not offering a real margin for negotiation. And, of initial interest, the socialists ended up in a frank disappointment. They say trains only happen once in a lifetime, and that's not true. Many, many trains have passed for Euskal Herria Bildu; they have seen that they arrived, only that they have all escaped. Then, it is not known how, they have the tremendous ability to try to get up in motion, giving lessons in addition with megaphone, because they do not reach the cabin or control of controls. And, as I say, once again, Euskal Herria Bildu has let go of the train, that of being a responsible party that demonstrates his ability to be an alternative because he is able to commit to the country when the worst is happening and when the worst is happening by Basque society. You do not forget the speeches, we are left with attempts at lessons, but being a responsible party with the country still catches you very far. All the excuses about the unwillingness of the Basque Government to agree because we already have an absolute majority fall apart, fall like a castle of cards if we contrast them with the reality of what happened. Euskal Herria Bildu had the entire past legislature, the whole of XI. Parliament, to influence, to condition a minority government, and although you practiced that much of arrogance, arrogance and even attempted humiliation, you missed the opportunity to influence and condition. And they cannot talk about the lack of political will on the part of the Basque Socialists, even when they vetoed us to reach agreements, because, as the budgetary exercises went on, they changed their exposure and there was a willingness, light and stenographers for that budgetary dialogue. Do you remember? The end of that scene, initiated by you, did not come to a good port because there were unions that marked the way for you. And, in this legislature, the second vice-lehendakari has met with each and every one of the groups, without exception, and has explained their proposals to them, has opened a door to them to participate, although on this occasion they were not accompanied by cameras or microphones to show a real and sincere will to add efforts. And Euskal Herria Bildu has again prioritized his interests, through pressure and tacticalism, in the face of the added effort to responsible collaboration, and far from making politics a useful tool for society. The amendment to the whole they have tabled is nothing more than a mirror of their permanent contradiction. The description of the exceptionality of the moment, the Basque Socialists can share it without repair; in fact, we have been demonstrating it since the first election call. You have spent seven minutes in your speech, which have been literal of some demonstrations made by the secretary general of the Basque Socialists, by Idoia Mendia. Exactly literal phrases. That is why we also share that first point of your amendment as a whole. The need to take urgent and future measures, the Basque Socialists not only share it, but we put them black and white in our electoral program and then they were translated into the government program. And those urgent measures for today – and also those of tomorrow and the short- and medium-term future – are the ones that constitute the government program that the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party have signed. They constitute the Berpiztu programme, the Programme for Economic Reactivation and Employment 2020-2024; they are these budgets for 2021; and it is also the Euskadi Next, and they are the strategic plans you know. And the Basque Socialists have committed to each of these measures following the advice that Ramón Rubial gave us: "We must manage the present and prepare the future". And it is striking that in the first point of the amendment by Euskal Herria Bildu, what they call "a decisive moment" was the essential argument to support the budgets of Spain and Navarre and also serves to reject the budgets of Euskadi. But more striking still seems to us to the Basque Socialists their priority..., under the second heading of their amendment, that of the "entrepreneur state", and that in the priority matters of Euskal Herria Bildu always point it out and it is the subject of the "Basque Republic" as a solution to our problems. It is clear that it will be your political objective, that it will be your legitimate electoral programme, yes, but that it has not obtained the necessary support in the ballot box, and that you are putting it as a budgetary argument here in Euskadi, when it is outside the competitive framework, the economic and political framework of this real Euskadi, today. And yet, that has not at all been, by any chance, a budgetary argument used either in Spain or in Navarre for the approval of their budgets, for their support for the approval of the budgets. Your amendment as a whole is a dejà vu, as has happened with other amendments from other parliamentary groups that we have seen today. And, if necessary, to justify the amendment as a whole they refer to what they said in 2020, and I may fail to remember, but none of Euskal Herria Bildu's in the December 2019 budget debate, for the 2020 budgets, spoke of the exceptional nature to which a pandemic could lead us and to which you quote in the first paragraph of your amendment. They talk about "old recipes" in the face of new challenges, when if something has these budgets in their literature, in their figures and in their explanations, and in everything about their application, it is a clear roadmap, certain objectives and the use of all the instruments offered by self-government, in addition to the involvement of the Spanish Government and the involvement of Europe to join and work on the new transformations that will be necessary to face the exit of this pandemic. But to face, moreover, an exit not in any way, but a reinforced exit in our economic structures and also socially cohesive. Euskal Herria Bildu has chosen to give lessons once again. And the Basque Socialists – in the face of this health, economic and social situation, moreover, political – for many months now we have chosen not to give lessons, but to give solutions. We committed ourselves to this and, after the elections, we reiterated our commitment to the government agreement signed between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra. And we realized our commitment at the same investiture session of the lehendakari Urkullu. She said our secretary general, on September 3, 2020, in that investiture session, referring to Euskal Herria Bildu as "referent of the first opposition party", which is what you stand for here – in that case it was Mrs Iriarte, whom I wish her best and who will come out soon –: "I hope she has the capacity to get involved in country agreements that do not waste time and that are involved without complexes in policies that are useful for everyone". And, as is usually said, the first one on the front. We return to my or nothingness, or my approaches or nothingness, that victimism of Euskal Herria Bildu who is denied bread and salt, which is applied to him the roller, which is applied to him authoritarianism, and so on to infinity and beyond. They do a lot of damage at first, but never, never end the play. They always stay in frustration. When you touch the important thing, when you have to give the callus, when you have to tie your shoulder, they are never and never expected. But, well, one more. The Socialists hoped that Bildu would understand that pulling his shoulder, adding strength, doing politics with capitals at a time and in such exceptional circumstances as those we live in, and also have a high eye to agree on, would bring to society greater certainty about the future and greater strength in the proposals. Because while the numbers give to take these budgets forward, opening up the agreement to other groups, it was certainly going to strengthen and improve the budgets. The solutions put forward by these budgets could undoubtedly be improved and enriched. And after all, no one has, nor do we have, the absolute truth. But beyond political colors, what we needed were solutions, what citizens expect are solutions, and we believe that these budgets are – at least the Basque Socialists believe it – the ones that contain them. In Governance, with the Law on Bodies and Scales and the Law on Public Employment, with the planning of the improvement of the quality of public employment, with the negotiations at the sectoral tables of Education and Health; in Equality, Justice and Social Policies, responding to the challenges of care, promoting the deployment of the Basque System of Social Services, contributing 14 million euros to the Social Services Fund, promoting the digitization of the Basque System of Social Services... These budgets provide for the attention of the sectors most affected by the health measures against COVID-19 and with a special fund for contingencies that could not be foreseen. They cover the two phases planned by the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption: that of resistance and economic revival. With regard to its proposal to develop a legal framework that limits the price of rental housing in Euskadi – which also exceeds the regulatory scope of the budget law itself – the Department of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport is mobilizing all the programmes, all the proposals and actions in the area of rental housing, aimed in particular at setting maximum prices that are on the right scale below those established by the market. With regard to income guarantee income, you again repeatedly propose an amendment to the law through budgets. This is the issue on which the 2019 budget negotiation was focused, a matter that was left to the proposal of law of the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups, of reform, whose processing was halted at Bildu's request the same day that it was submitted for the first time, in June 2018. Bildu chose not to negotiate Basque accounts for 2019, and, given its budget extension, from the Basque Government a law was expressly promoted to increase the economic amounts of income guarantee income in 2019, amounts that were consolidated and increased in the 2020 budgets. The Basque Government is committed to putting forward a new bill, which will come to the Basque Parliament in the last quarter of this year, at which time these and how many matters the parliamentary groups consider appropriate. These budgets are not going to be returned, and they will continue to be processed and will come out with the greatest support that Basque accounts have had in more than a decade and at an unprecedented juncture, as is the pandemic of the covid we are suffering. And they are the first accounts of a parliamentary legislature after the autonomous elections, after the decision made by Basque citizens in the ballot boxes regarding the deposit of their confidence in a moment of health crisis caused by the COVID-19, demanding that citizenship, those ballot boxes, the outcome of those elections, an agreement between different. Faced with this decision of the citizenry, the Basque Socialists respond from the point of view of responsibility and with a sense of country, and we do so in the same way in the municipalities, in the outlaws, in the Basque Government and in the Government of Spain. Socialists respond by aligning institutional policies and the solutions they demand at this time Euskadi and Basque citizenship. However, Bildu, with his proposal, makes approaches that go beyond that budgetary framework, making budgetary negotiation impossible at the outset. Even, competitively, while recognizing the important effort that was made in education and health, you raise issues about social services in which competition is municipal and foral. The Basque Socialists, once again, above any other calculation, we are fully committed. We don't want to stick to pointing fingers at what needs to be done. We point this out, we say how we believe that action must be taken and we commit ourselves to resolving it. You said, Mrs Kortajarena, that certainties had to be offered. We have been saying this for a long time now by the Basque Socialists. And in Basque citizenship, at least, we have a certainty: that we will be able to have budgets to deal with this exceptional situation, adapted budgets, and it will not be thanks to Bildu. Once again the train passes, others have to be committed here to using every seat achieved for the economic and social reconstruction of Euskadi, with a clear road map and without any distraction and without generating more uncertainty. We'll wait for you next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Monsieur Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u49	Good noon, everyone. The numbers are the leading ones today. And though it has been mentioned two or three times, 12442 is not a phone number, but 124,000 or so, it's a year after the Basque Organizations, in which case we've begun the effort by the law's hand. And I think there have been three adjectives, which I would like to insist again: that the presupuest is strong, the modern, the progressive, and also that the presupust is strong. It has been mentioned before, when he goes in succession, that the lady of the Kothaena said: "Are you looking at all the things that may come to you? "No? You've announced a lot of sadities. Don't let them happen for everybody's sake. Did the presupust, that is to say, the 20th year of the year, accepted in 1919, predict that there would be a pandemy every 20th year? No. And has he stopped answering? No. Because there were games and handles. And then, besides, extra credits were created. Even looking at the future, the path of madness has been opened. And maybe it's clear there's a chance of all this reopening and for today. And if the COVID program has, in express terms, its 542 million games, or games, divided into different departments. Then strong, strong, strong. And besides, it's something that's predicting, why the budgets are that, to see what's going to happen in advance, financially, even financially. But we're in a serious situation. Then health and education are one axis, COVID program and public investment and research. I think the numbers are pretty clear. In the full correction of what you present, you say that you must take the necessary measures, and, looking at the future, you say that the public policies ought to be given a new view or direction. Here's the discussion. There's a discussion here, isn't there? I don't know if it's ideological, or if it's one of the priorities that everyone has, it's a priori that makes the argument. Why, we have it there, huh? , there's a difference. But before the pandemonade you're very good at precoction and how all that was, and how it was, you're very good men. And then you have to show the leadership, holding the whole town around your neck. Okay, and activate the popular intelligence. Because we offer old recipes to new challenges. And that's not true. You said: "What now? "I don't know. On the one hand personal care, and on the other social discipline. As for the institutions, I think it must be shared by the leadership, by the organization, by the beginning of Christmas and passing by the local town, and by organized societies, because society has several organizations in common. You used to say that we have an absolute majority, and that we speak of it. You say in text, "una maoría coyuntural." I don't know how it's to be parlamentary. But what is clear is that in order to form a government, a majority is required. And this majority is absolute. Aipatzen zenuen behin eta berriz, kalamitate horien artean, zer maila kaskarrean gauden, ez? Eta, begira, zuk zeuk esan duzu..., baneukan paper... This honetan gertatu da hau, Gipuzkoako Batzar Nagusietan. Joseba Zalakain ezagutuko duzu, ez? Zuek eskatuta joan da Junta Generaletara, eta hauxe esan du: "When we talked about poverty and inequality in Gipuzkoa", berak esaten du, " it must be said that Gipuzkoa is one of the territories with the lowest inequality in Europe. And that, in part, is thanks to the social protection model we have in Euskadi. But it is also true that the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation has as one of its objectives to reduce inequality; to be a territory with less inequality rates. And I do believe that progress in reducing inequality in Euskadi is difficult when you already have relatively low inequality rates." Hori esan du. Gero, weresten du –fiskalitari buruz ari zelako–: "... and that I believe that it must also be recognized, implies to influence taxation". Well, ez dut esango ez gauden hain gaizki, bath authority and exacten hadenan deberdintasun-maila daukagun, gutxienez aitortu dezagun, zergatik bestela kalamitateekin ito egingo gara. But when I consider your full correction, I see three axes. You say, on the one hand, that you make a sodionomical offer, which has a direct relation to the presupuest, and then to the Europeans and to the prosecutors. Those are the three axes. And I told you before, about public policies, we think that because we believe in it, a people who wants to establish future or future must consider that the production and distribution of goods ought to be connected with them. This is a harpsichord, isn't it? Why else, I see where your alternative comes from, in two words: a total publication. That's what you're hiding after all, a total publication. and the production and distribution of property must be connected with it. It can also be played with debts, but, as you have said, we can't allow new generations to bear the burden or burden we've created. So, let's go with the three sections, has Mrs. Corcuer mentioned what is done in other places, right? And I think here we have a triangle to understand politics. It's not a love triangle. It is the triangle, and each apex has its own game. But at three o'clock we are all political parties; Social Party... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No? And these are the words: on the other hand, Navarre, and on the other hand Spain. Same theme: budgets, in the current case. And results are different, behavior is different, right? With that I draw a conclusion: It's not ideology, it's strategy. It is not ideology, it is strategy that is applying the left abertzale. Because if it were an ideological issue, there would have to be or exist, I do not say a similarity, an equivalence at least in the three areas. But the behaviors are diametrically different. Therefore, it is not ideology, it is strategy, that applies to this Government from that parliamentary group. Why, here we stand with the absolute majority, and you say: "Well, we must make opposition." If you're also at Navarro and in Spain, like us. But there you decide an aid in the Navarro. And in Madrid, clap your hands, yes. Then the question is: Why? Then what is possible here is explained in an implicit way, whether it be the reform of the prosecution, but whether it is the future. Where the right hand is, that is to say, in Navarre, there is no place for it. Better tell me, a report proposed last year and the government of Navarre hasn't done it. And the same commitment is reschedule. And it's very simple to read, so it'll be explained. European funds. You didn't ask Madrid a question. The Spanish Government has the power, and you don't ask questions. And this is where you can ask for a book of all the projects, but... And besides, you're asking for information on the project team that's inside your hands. You ask for a permanent frame of direct relationships, which is to be born with the assembly of its own accord. But governments negotiate this isn't an ascetic! When it's said there, when Mrs. Sagastal said to him yesterday: "Don't abuse me, why our patience has a limit." He's telling us that a conversation between governments has to be carried out. Yes, yes, and you make projects on Sunday noon. By the way, they've disappeared, they've disappeared from your website, and I'm so rude to find you or they've disappeared, knowing that most of you are in those who've got a proposition, like an idea or a proposition. And one more question. I don't know what more criticisms are made of. Which ones have you hired? With our partners? With a large society? With popular intelligence? Or what the hell with him? Why are you guys accusing him of hiding? What about you guys? Who did you check those projects with? With popular intelligence? Okay. Well, we who are part of the people, and at least of the principal part in political substitutions, I don't know how intelligence will make the average, but we have our ideas. And that's what happened in the European funds. Gero, Ikusten dugu arola beasts. Goazen fiskalitatera, beast ez dit denborarik emango. Hemen, "deep tax reform." Eta ha, Nafarroan, joan den urtean konpromisoa ez dute bete eta berriro ere: "It is recognized that the different positions of each party on the degree of intensity that would have to have any modifications in the tax system navarro are maintained". It is the fifth precedent of the agreement, in Navarra. But two agreements are signed. Since it was not possible the previous year, it is agreed to conduct a tax benefit study. A study. And another report on the introduction of taxes related to green taxation. Different positions remain at the bottom of the issue. There is no requirement there; there report, here condition. Eta argi dago, which is not ideology, is strategy. The COVID rate is here discussed. Unsupported. But you continue to burn. So until the reform prosecutor doesn't make the COVID rate. Well, one question. I've been watching, and there's no country in Europe that has accepted the COVID rate. There isn't one. On the contrary, you take Germany and the Ministry of Economics say, "Not at all, Germany ought not to raise taxes at a time of panic." Even more, Germany lowers the VAT from 19 to 6%. Others are on that road, too. The Great Britain is probably not a refreciative, but the VAT is planning to descend from 20 to 5%. Nor will Portugal move, nor Italy, nor France. And when the parliamentor here says no, again in the question of the prosecution, why does he plan to establish the COVID rate, knowing that the absolute majority will not assent to it? Budget. The Government's quantified requirement is 429 million. The deal in Navarre is 9.4 million: 7.5 that have a projection in the budget and then 1.9 for what you criticized last year to Podemos, "customer amendments"..., because there are also in Navarre. So, here, 3.45 of the budget is requested, and there it is closed with 0.19. There's no equivalence. Man, after the request, comes the negotiation; and the understanding would have arrived, the potential agreement. It wasn't possible. But I am going to an even more bloody question, because every time Nerea Kortajarena, who has knowledge on the subject, and I respect her position... when it comes to decent pensions, etc., etc., and minimum pensions, in Navarre, what has this debate had? We also continue with the commitments of the 20th, which have not been met. There is a text in the agreement that states that "The Government of Navarre, without prejudice to the applicable state legislation within six months, will conduct a study on the actual situation of the amounts of Navarre's pensions and the flows of income and expenditure. Also, it is instructed to make an estimate of the budgetary condition that would have the supplementation of the lower pensions to the current SMI, in the first instance, and to 1,080 euros in the second phase". Study, study. In just one paragraph, Bildu comes to recognize, first, that competition in the area of pensions belongs to the State and, secondly, that the Navarro Government only undertakes to draw up a situation study and an economic estimate on the impact it would have. It is a mere presumption, which would have to supplement the lower pensions referred to in the SMI or the totemic EUR 1,080. Good. These vagaries and hypotheses in Navarre become imperative in the Autonomous Community. It is said, I believe, that this is page 6 of your proposal, that "the minimum income guaranteed to pensioners will be those laid down in Law 18/2008, for the guarantee of income and for social inclusion", i.e. that all pensioners of pensions in the Autonomous Community will be guaranteed, at least, a minimum income equivalent to the amount of the SMI. Hori gives exactten dena hemen. What there is a plea for a study here is an imperative. There report; here condition. Therefore, I conclude. I don't know if I'll have time later... I want to insist on the idea that it is not ideology, it is strategy, it is pure and hard strategy. In addition, ideology is à la carte, at ease. If I'm interested, well, okay, I make an ideological or political resignation. But not here, here is another strategy. And that's what I'll try to undress in my second intervention, that strategy. Because the non-removable strategy for the Basque Government and the PNV is a finding. Good. I think it is a wrong strategy for the left abertzale or EH Bildu, but I also have a reflection on it, which I hope will give me time in the second intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u50	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing on the turn of the answers, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Chotha's, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't know... The way you told us that you were going to strip the strategy on this second tour, so, klaro, we're instigated... [[Barres]] You're a experienced politician, and you're afraid of one, aren't you? Sheath of the halibut hilabete... Lehen, uste dut Corcuera andreak esan diola Elkarrekin Podeasi: It is not appropriate to advance the answers before the negotiations take place.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. It is true that before the budgets were presented you have discussed this anxiety: You make a deal at the Navarro, but here... We won't. I told the gentleman under it, to me, for the last month or two, I know that he'd been working on a sollio. She planned that we should be careful. He also said that these budgets were a hell of a lot, that it was impossible for him to refuse these budgets to say that when they got together, they'd say that it was a real thing. And then he said: "But they will not accept them, will they? Still, EH Collect will not accept them. Everything, everything, everything, she said. And, well, some of you have also mentioned the bargains in Madrid. There's an intimacies in there, you've got a hell of a crush on it. If you've known this strategy, you'll have to undress us. But in this process of investigation, I'd like to open a new hypothesis line. For if the Basque Country has been able to collect the size of the situation, if the Basque Country has been able to comprehend the strategic dimensions of the moment, and where politics are placed in a particular direction, and where the benefits of the people are laid up for the people, the question may not be collected in that hypothesis which must have been opened.... Maybe the problem is not to collect the Basque People. CSI'll have to decide, but maybe it's not the Basque Country gathering problem. You were talking about strategy. Seeing you've been building this recruit for so long a month, how'd you get more effort to build a recruit and how you've offered it to society? Wouldn't you? I say on the table, because in that triangle you speak of, there are other hypotheses which may be referred to, e.g. I'll leave it there. Then you said the numbers are the lead. There's a lot of things here that weren't involved with numbers. And I haven't, Mr. Eggar, announced the calamies, I haven't announced the caammys. Unfortunately, we are in a very compromising situation. I didn't make any predictions. There are some very serious events here at this moment, extremely serious. And it's not that, I don't know... , for a flag. I mean, it sometimes seems to us that Government has created such a bubble following these medical observations, and the bubbles are so bubbled, and that, when this bubble is placed on an ivory tower, it sometimes seems to us that it is very far from the events that happen in the everyday. And the situation is very serious, we're red, but it's a black panorama. And it is not because the Basque People are said to be assembled, but because they are thus convened, and because uncertainty is being installed in our own country. And, of course, I confess to Joseba Zalaini... I don't know how you said that thing, do I? I admire Joseba Zalain, and I still do his job, and I'm also with him. And when Joseba Zalain says that the situation we're in here in ispolitical, isn't it? Sometimes they are better than at other times, and that is not the description of a Calamity that the Basque Country is planning, the chief physician studied, well, or in the final examination that came to his department, in the poverty of 2018 and incension of the social needs, will explain to you that if you want Joseph Zalašek to see that there was a very clear tenement, and that all the poor people around poverty and the needs of society were making mistakes, as well as the social difference in our country. For the first time in many years social differences, even if they were in a slight degree, rose in ours. Apart from this, Fossa, Cáritas' foundation, produced a report. And he put a great worry on the table, and it was the exponential rise of uncertainty in our country. And he mentioned how a prodigious number of people were in perfect uncertainty in our country. And when we plan to make an integral exercise, and when we say that the present and the future are at stake, all these elements must necessarily be considered. What a crisis we shall arrive at, if we do not overcome the previous crisis, leaving many people behind, when people are in complete uncertainty. Never in this country, according to the data of 2018, is there never so many people in the danger of poverty as long as they do their calculations; never. And under that condition, we've got pandemy. That's why, besides taking health measures, it's important to take measures in social and economic area too. But it is also essential that the teaching and all the lessons left by the panic, and all those instructions which the previous crisis has left, should be laid upon his neck, and that, considering them, he should set up conditions for a new future, if he consider them, and the challenges which this people sees before him. And that which we offered to you was: let us come to the present situation, with a proposition capable of doing, capable, capable, and desirable, by strengthening the first attention with those 140 million unlucky sectors, giving a little wind to the injured sectors with a fund of 200 million... ; let us take advantage of this, also, of Madame Corcuera, and it is not at all like that that that we have our jurisdictions in the planning of our social services, that we cannot abolish, especially the conditions of the refugees, especially the Biscacious and the Arabeans; let us set up a potent program for those young men who have no work at 4%. We've done all this planning, capable, capable, and even if we identified where the money could come from. For the rest, it is a timely and long-term planning, for which it is proposed to you. A middle-term planning, long-term planning. And without sitting with us, the government of conversation, the government of the neighbourhood, has refused the proposal. And on this side, there is also a very disturbing confusion in the cacaturization you make of this political conversation, as to the question of the financials of Europe, or, here, that the question is to be decided in the ascetic. This shows the limits of your model of government. That we have differences in the direction of public politics? Well, it's probably clarus, it's obvious, otherwise we'd all be in the same group. And when that was an inquest, we said: here there are some questions, and some experiences which are extremely political, which have been in this pandemy, and are different ways of answering them. You have what you have, the Social Party has its own, which sometimes changes, and we have ours. Legal, legitimate. But this does not mean that conversation and such matters cannot be met together. And then, about the European funds, I have a few references to you. We're asking for a permancent dialog frame, aren't we? Whoa! For Europe, in the frame of European funds, requires this, that is what Europe demands, although you attempted to say in a machimical use of the Englishman: "No, no, the conversation is with us here." No, no, it's not you guys here. That's the coyuccanical government. You've been in the government for 40 years, but that doesn't mean you'll be here forever. And it is impossible to decide the future of a people only by a political party. It can't be. I wonder if we've hired them with national intelligence. Sure. For we also have our contacts with popular intelligence, of course, like you. And it's already a summum to be annoyed that we haven't contacted you with the identification of our projects. That's right, I don't know how to say it. We will continue to work, with care, to make our proposals in the proportion required by the state, as we have made in the whole pandemy. You've been made in the whole pandemia, although you've rhymed, you've made specific propositions for the interview table. Everyone's been insulted back, huh? They've all had that contempt coming back. In any case, I have already said, I believe that reality ought to lead this government to a deep reflection, which I think is that the situation has overcome. And on that side, with his ivory tower down, and a little out of that bubble, he should see that this government is getting very cold outside, and that people are having a bad time, and that people need such things. And it's very difficult to guess at these things right now, because we're in an unusual situation, we're in an unusual situation. And two heads, three heads, probably four heads, though more than one, though they're so big as one, are allowed to go on more than one, and also to share their responsibility. We've got to take this town around our necks, yes. We have to activate that national intelligence. And we have to open the routes to the interview, yes. And in that triangle I'll end up with EZA, I'd like to put that hypothesis on the table. The Basque Country has shown that he knows the situation. He's also known how to read the status dimension. We know we're at a crossroads. We are also prepared for this people, to answer our immediate wants, and to give them the steps necessary to build our future under other conditions. And perhaps in that triangle and that strategy there are others-that is to say, you are.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing over to the second round to answer, the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u53	Thank you, President. Mrs Kortajarena, when we look at the four points that your amendment has – which I will conclude with later – and after your interventions, I must say that the Basque Socialists reaffirm their rejection of the totality amendment that they have officially tabled and of that comprehensive socio-economic proposal that they presented in the context of the budgetary negotiation. Look, the Basque Socialists cannot agree more with the first point about the exceptionality of the moment, which also requires urgent and future action and which also calls on all political parties. I have said this several times this morning in the debate on the full amendments tabled by the various parliamentary groups. And the Basque Socialists agree so much that these are the central arguments, that we put them in our electoral programme for the autonomic elections in July, just over six months ago. And those are precisely the central axes of this XII government program. Parliament, in which the Government has defined a road map, its priorities, its plans, its strategic reforms, to which we would have liked other parliamentary groups to join and which has not been possible. In the second point of his amendment, the entrepreneurial state, we understand that it is a legitimate objective of a party, or of as many parties as they want, but it will not be so substantial or so fundamental for Euskal Herria Bildu when that has not been any of the arguments presented either in Madrid or in Navarre to support the budgets for 2021. In the third point of your amendment as a whole, 'New challenges, old recipes', we cannot disagree more, Mrs Kortajarena. If there is anything evident in these Euskadi Budgets for 2021, from the front line of the bill, it is that they are budgets for an unprecedented and exceptional situation, and new answers are offered to new problems. It does draw our attention, on the other hand, to the fact that, by claiming so vehemently new answers, it is Euskal Herria Bildu who, in defence of his amendment to the whole, refers to the position that you maintained in the 2020 budgets. On the fourth point, the one that calls "A comprehensive political proposal for certainties", we do not ask for the return of budgets because there is an alternative budget, because you would have worked on an alternative budget, but because you offer a diagnosis of the gravity of the situation whose diagnosis has already been made precisely by the Basque Government itself to draw up these budgets, and the Basque Socialist Party shares that diagnosis. And, as far as European funds are concerned, the debate has already taken place more than many times. We have even had a full monograph, at the request of Euskal Herria Bildu. And it has not been raised in the budget, because, as the draft expressly points out, all the measures proposed are linked to those projects but do not depend on those funds. And these are two debates that will come together but that are held in two different times. The scope of taxation is also shared by the Government and by the groups we support the Government. That is why we are committed to reflecting on the necessary reforms, following an assessment of the tax reforms that we have carried out in legislatures and in previous times. But we did want to make it clear that, in addition to having debated the COVID rate in this House, that tax is not comparable to other extraordinary taxes that we have had in the past, because today we are not facing a structural crisis, but we are facing a crisis caused by a pandemic and that, if we are able to control and overcome it, we will be able to have a recovery of the economy and of employment and, therefore, also of tax revenues. For Euskal Herria Bildu this exceptional situation requires, as a solution, that the budgets for 2021 be returned, and that this exceptional situation be managed with pre-pandemic budgets, with extended budgets, these, those of 2020. I mean, they put themselves in the "worst, better." To me already this is that it is better a budget past and not adapted to a situation and, above, in such an exceptional situation, really, that it puts me, come on, of the nerves, because it is to think that you, of course, is that you do not live in reality... That is, better the 2020 budget than the 2021 budgets, in this situation, at this juncture. It's incredible, and besides, it's irresponsible. And there's something else that has amazed me. There are already several times that Euskal Herria Bildu wants certain actions of the Basque Government on budgetary issues... Budgets of 2012! And in the legislatures that we are passing you are longing for certain actions and actions of the government, but, of course, you are late, you are always late! It's like they've lost... they're going against me. Yes, yes, that's what you just said, better the 2020 budget. Well, man, may you come to that conclusion a year later... Anyway, we're a little late. And I, in conclusion, believe that the government is not in any bubble, Mrs Kortajarena. We are not in a bubble; we are people of flesh, bone and heart, and with sensitivities. We all have families, friends, an environment where we live suffering from this pandemic. We all ask for a phone appointment, at least me, a phone appointment from the doctors. We all have children studying or many have children studying. We all have friends who are experiencing a situation in those sectors that are being affected by health measures, which are going through a tough, very hard situation. So, we're not in any bubble, we're not Martians. What we do present... in the face of this diagnosis that has been made of the exceptional situation, solutions are proposed. And those solutions, today, the real ones, the ones that are tangible, those are the budgets for 2021. Don't chimeras who are posing here without knowing if you can reach a happy end. I am sorry, indeed, and I say this again on this occasion, and I am sorry that the parliamentary groups have not exercised a responsibility to support and strengthen these accounts. You spoke, Mrs Kortajarena, of certainties. Best certainty, have some budgets to implement and implement. There is no better certainty for this society. Nothing in the past will be better, but let's adapt to the situation we're having. Thanks to those who have worked from the Department of Finance and Budgets... and the whole Government, which has put forward innovative actions in many cases, with the difficulty of not knowing what certainties can accompany us in the future. But, of course, a lot of encouragement in the implementation and management of these budgets, which are not going to be returned today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. And, finally, the Eubertians. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u55	In all the negotiations there is a new word or a new concept, which I at least have just pointed out in this trial of yours with an integrated exercise. Arnuldo Orice has spoken twice of the encybian integration. What is that? It's like examining all the sites and playing the game somewhere. Well, what's clear is that EH Collect put all the eggs on other baskets: In the Spanish Government, to protect him, and in the government of Navarre. He hasn't done anything like that here. What he's done here is, I'm sure, all that I have to ask for here is the integral exercise. That's what he did. You said the interview, the European funds. You didn't say who they are, or what organizations are intelligence in this town. You put together a few projects, and it's been fun, like, dozens of meetings with national institutions, not just institutions. And it's his duty, not the legislature. There have also been instances in the legislature, and an entire meeting, a monographicographic, which you asked for. But it's been discussed, and the resolutions are known. It belongs to the same authority. If we take it here, textally, what it is, it's obvious what it says... European funds: "Será fundamental que los estados miembros inicien cuanto antes un amplio diálogo sobre pollíticas con interlocures sociles..." LXXVI. THE NIGHT OF THE HISTORIES. How many times does the president demand a promotion, he wants to speak face to face to face as a government, as a government? With political parties, of course, but with social institutions. And projects have been introduced. And you introduced them on a Sunday afternoon and today they're gone. I don't know if intelligence's gone, but the projects are gone. They don't show up at all. So, um... Why don't we get to harmony? I think EH Collector doesn't want any deal with PNV in the budgets or in the social police, around the social model. He won't! Why? Well, on the one hand, if you share with PNV in a social model, it is hard for a patriot on his left hand, who, luckily, has made a bet on the political and democratic side of the column. And it is, I understand, the fracasis of a strategy. That's right, why... how can EH Collector, or Create, be confessable to me, how can PNV, in this social model, in sooconomical area, admit of leadership, of the fatherhood of the project or parenthood of motherhood? How can he confess? He's done it if he does it. And you do not realize that there are treaties that unite and multiply them. And this people need your addition and your ability to multiply. And you don't really use ideology because it's not strategy. Therefore –herdaraz neukan zerbait antzekoa esateko–... Why, isn't it? How does one explain that, with the approval of the General Budgets of the State, it is said not only that it is going to fall to the Regime, but that we all feel – it is undeniable – closer to the Basque Republic, with Bildu's vote on the budgets? I believe that even the international community will be looking forward to, will be appreciating the planetary political fact that Bildu has granted the vote to Sanchez... Well, no! You've justified it that way. You've justified it that way. So, what's the reason? Because otherwise, it would be fascinating. If with a budget approval, all that happens, a three-in-one, it would be fascinating. What's the reason? Well, Bildu's changed his field of play. But he's taking care of his own emergencies, not the country's interests. And, for all of us to understand each other, it's the so-called "five-a-week" deal. Point. Point. And that's where I leave it. Is that right? Well... And then I see another one, the head director of the EH Collector last week. Let us wait for sobre presupustos. YDie: "We are a political force that knows exactly where the honor is. We're very cohesion, we're not a boat. We're going to be a transatlantic with mission, vocation, ambition. I think EAJ sees a threat in us." It's ambitious, isn't it? Not to be a small boat boy and a transatlantic. What, to cross the coast of Esscal? Or where to go? Then questions are asked... And I'd like to end up with it, otherwise you don't have a chance to replicate it. I'll leave it there. Aurreko batan eabili nuen, you have Podemekoekin berriketan edo eztabaida batan... Badago euskaldun bat, Luis Ugalde Olalde, Bergarako Semea, Jesuit and bear gizon jakintsua, eta, besteak beste, esaldi anddo gogoeta bat dauka, eta budgetekin nik uste dut zerikusia baduela eta polikarekin ere bai, eta esaten du: "The solution is not to renounce utopia, but to take it as inspiration to make viable transformation projects with effective achievements of freedom and social justice. The utopian thought that does not accept the fact that without the given reality, however poor and negative we have nothing, and that it despises the graduality of a good government because what needs to be done are not reforms but revolution, is the best way to guarantee permanent frustration." And I think something similar is happening, I think, unfortunately, in this country of ours for too long. That is to say, the government, as Susan has said, our support, and the other members of the legislature, the public officers of the other institutions, will endeavour to make our commitment to this people. And at the head of all these institutions, President, it's you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u56	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. We're done talking and we'll vote for the bill if it gets back to you or not. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters are 34; the contrary is 41; the abstations are 0; white is 0.1,0,0,0;
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-01-29.u57	So he won't return to the government's bill. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at three o'clock in the afternoon.
