ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the subject list, I remember that 33 Mr. and Mrs. have inherited the vote, and that the third and fifth points have been left for another purpose. First point in theme list: The legal proposition made by the parlamental team, in order to produce an office against good means and corruption. The discussion and the final resolution of taking it as a thought. You're in the documentation where you're being divided, and we're just going to argue. They'll be on the side shift... Together by Podemos? Side shift? And EH Collect. So, the Representative of the EH Collect Group has the word. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u1	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. And good morning to all. The law of creating an office against the proper means and corruption has been brought to the tramit because we're convinced that the Basque Country is a necessary and indispensable origin of that office of the Uscay and Gipus. And why now did we register this proposition at the beginning of this legislation? The answer is very simple: Part 12. according to our own legislative calendar, we planned it for the present. Simple, then. We have, by this time, introduced nine billies in these nine months, of which we have brought seven into the tramit, and this is the eighth. That's part of it. And on the other hand, those of you who have been in the process of the change in the Basque Court of the People have witnessed it: Opinina Antifrau de Catalunya, Agencia de Prevención y Lucha Contarra el Fraude de la Corrupticiad Valencian, Opinina Independente de Reción y Supervisión de la Contartaón, which is more known under Euro-Fraudán, and we have had scenes of the President of the Compigumental Committee of Europe, and for that purpose we have had for the transferment of the United States. We have had the proofs and experience of all these, and the consequence: and the proposition which we have here brought to dispute may be supposed to have been drawn from what Europe has specified. And since we've been able to recognize them by the first hand, we've brought this law to Tramit. Therefore, as we can see, in a serious planning and complete planning, in an integral or complete planning. But beyond what cause is there to be brought into the travest, an office against good means and corruption, why is it necessary? Because irregular practices, improper practices, and without saying, produce evils in our society which cannot be restored to corruption. And these phenomena are also splashing the institutions and the administration, and it is impossible to know whether the cases we have hitherto known are punctual, or are only to the summit of the iceberg. And cases are being piled up. We have known cases which have appeared in the media having been a penal course, because they have generally supposed the committed crime; but this is the idea we have often repeated, it is possible that a practice should exist entirely irregular, but that it should not be unlawful, or that it should not be unlawful enough to receive a penal punishment. And many of them, we have no organs or institutions to prevent, detect, study, inspection, and punish. A Calabrian writer born at the end of the 19th century, Corrado Alvaro, claimed that the worst desperation of a society is the doubt that living honestly is useless. You're a dugus, horregatik was a boy, proposed you beharrezkoa her. We have learned, and have seen how important it is to have powerful administrative administration or public institutions, in order to be able to serve public services; and thus we must have perfect confidence in society and society. And therefore it is important to have a mechanism as we present to-day, because there is no mechanism in the EAE, there is no work for investigation! We do not have a proper judicial officer, who is prepared to oppose the improper use of the public funds in a special manner. We don't have a prosecutor, a prosecutor against the corruption. We've got a prosecutor for economic crimes and we'll know what it means in his memoirs that he doesn't have any resources to carry his work forward, but we don't have a prosecutor against the corruption with a potent team who will be able to resist this challenge with special equipment. We have not even a public power, which has enough control mechanism over itself. We have not, in some measure, a contrivance to protect the accusers. And therefore the deficiencies are great, the cases are covered, and we are arriving at a very small number of cases which occur in this part of our people. And this isn't for us, is it? This isn't the Basque Country. That's what the prosecutor says. The Prosecutor himself insists, in his reports, in his memoirs; it is a history repeated for years. And the prosecution itself says that it is difficult for individuals to make accusations of these kinds. And he talks about reasons that are normal and we all can figure out, all personal, all professionals. That is to say, to-day, in order to accuse a corruption, one must be very brave. Very brave, and even the teamary. For there is but to see the consequences: In the case of the past por cajachono, in De Miguel, we have a very clear example. The person who reported it was a person, a chief of business, and the way we saw the insults and threats against that person. Here's an example. So it's very difficult for a person to accuse him when he detects a case of corruption. And no comment on the officials. How can they say that their superior has prevaricated him? How can they say they manipulated a report? How can they say they've made a direct appeal or made a distribution of contracts? How can officials say that? What kind of mechanism do they have to accuse you of? And, besides this, many cases close in the phaseology. If they come to a statement case, many cases are closed in it. And the reasons are principally two: On the one hand, the difficulty to study, and this is what we are talking about, that there are great difficulties to investigate. The police are not enabled in many cases to carry on these investigations. Nor does EH Billah say that, nor do we. The border reports, reports of the Economic Unit border, often say and conclude that they are not enabled to carry on so many investigations themselves, that they have not sufficient technical knowledge and professional knowledge. And another reason, to close the statement down, the will-fath of investigation. The other reason why we do not reach the phase of verbal judgment is that of the will to investigate many of these procedures. So if we get to a verbal trial, and then there's a punishment, it's very difficult in Euskal Autonomy Er member. And therefore it is necessary that a specific organ, which should prevent, detect, examine, examine, examine, and punish, if necessary, the Anonymion of the accuser, and bring him to the proper place, or place him in the proper way. Some may be illegal cases of corruption, which will proceed from the judicial road, co-ordinately with those institutions which now exist. But there may be cases in which administrative measures may be taken, and they will be put to an end either by an administrative sanction or by a warning. Sensibility campaigns against irregular practice, prevention work, risk maps, who makes them in Araban, Usca, and Gipuzia? There is no such thing; there is no such thing! What organs are charged with accusations, detection protocols, the ability to study, the authority to examine them, even by this law, which we propose here? We don't have that in Agraban, Bazazia, and Gipuzia. We have control, auditory and juror organs, that is, but their power is very limited. And as if this were little, and I shall not repeat it again, which is no longer independent, even the latter, a fundamental trait which is supported in the office against the proper practices and corruption. And the law we bring today is almost exactly the same as the last legislature. The same one that we had to comb after the appeal orchestrated by the deputies to the Arbitral Commission, and that, after having kidnapped it, we modified it, and that, with a favourable report from the lawyer of the House, continued with its procedure. And I say that it is almost exactly the same, because the only amendment it makes is in relation to the protection of whistleblowers, in line with and under the obligation to comply with European Directive 2019/1937, of the European Parliament and of the Council, on the protection of persons reporting infringements of Union law. And this last question, that is, compliance with a European directive, cannot be a reason for the change of view that this government has had. And I explain myself: We bring this law to the fore for the second time; since, with the completion of the previous one, the legislature fell. The logical thing would be to think that today it will be given green light to its processing, but everything indicates that it will not be so, unless we convince them on this turn in favor... On the previous occasion, the proposal received a favourable view from the Government, and on this occasion, on the other hand, it was unfavourable. And the question is, what has changed? What has changed since then? The absolute majority? That we were, at that time, in the middle of the De Miguel case, where the main defendants were paraded through the courthouse? Or that this government had to issue judgment within a few days of the sentence of the ex-mayor and PNV charges in the case of the Carranza purines? Has that changed? Because this cannot depend on the context or party interests. Either you are against corruption, plotting, plugging, cartels, clientelism, corruption and favor treatment, or, to some extent, you are conniving, allowing it and not taking measures to eradicate it. So we do not understand that change in criteria, because both opinions also list the same elements to be taken into account. But two years ago, favorable, with those elements; and two years later, unfavorable, with the same elements. Reference is made to the Transparency Act, which, by a third consecutive legislature, seems to be going to be dealt with in the House. At that time it was being processed. Today, it has not entered the House nor is it being processed. We'll see about that. A law that, above all, has the effect of making information and content more accessible for the sake of transparency. Okay. And it's fine. But that's a tiny part of what we're dealing with here today. These include control and control bodies, the Office of Economic Control and the Basque Court of Public Accounts, which are limited to contracts and to the Public Sector Contracts Act. One, the first, the Office of Economic Control; and the other, to monitor the accounting exercises of public administrations, entities, companies and agencies, another small part, and which are currently disabled, because of their absolute lack of independence, as I have previously mentioned. The Basque Data Protection Agency or the Public Commission for Access to Information. Well, well... as anti-corruption agencies or irregular practices, your contribution is very limited. And Ararteko – and the defender of the People of the State – is also involved, whose main task is to assist citizens, in relation to complaints about the actions of the Administration. How many cases of irregular practices or corruption in all these years of Ararteko's existence have started following a complaint in Ararteko? How many? Please, ladies and gentlemen. By the way, an Ararteko who receives no reply in 53% of the writings he refers to the Basque public administration, to the Basque Government, as he indicated the other day in this House, in the committee. No answer! It does not listen to what it determines, to its conclusions; it does not receive a reply from the Basque Government in 53% of the submissions it submits to the Basque Government. Then, that you then put it as an element also of existence, to excuse yourself in the non-necessity of this office that we raise here today, seems a little, at least not laughable, but disrespectful towards Ararteko himself. And as a truce of the entities and bodies listed in this commission, there is the Ethics or Aesthetics Commission of the Basque Government, which already, at this point, spends time talking about it... And there is talk of duplicity of organs, in case the office is created. And you can't duplicate what doesn't exist. There's no duplicity. You can't duplicate what doesn't exist! The bodies cited by the Basque Government have neither the functions nor the powers of those who give this office the law. Finally, he talks about this opinion, in order to conclude – this unfavourable opinion of the Government – that experiences elsewhere in the state are of little effectiveness. And we don't know, we really don't know – and this worries us – what it is based on to issue such a statement. I have already recalled that, in the process of amending the law on the Basque Court of Public Accounts that we are carrying out, these elements, these directors, the presidents of the anti-corruption offices in Europe, have passed through here. And the conclusion is the opposite. So it all sounds pretty like excuses, a change of heart, from one day to the next, which you can hardly understand. In the previous discussion, the deputy of the Eucatian Party, Mr. Lachaga, a farewell from here, said: The Abertist from the U.N.E.A. has agreed to consider this legal proposition, because the initiative in creating an office against the proper and corrupt practices deserves a deep and earnest discussion, and the contribution and reflection of the groups of this chamber. So we'll say yes to the debate. We say yes to reflection. What's changed? Don't they want to give way to team contributions and speculations? What's changed? And the Socialist Group, Mr Pastor... In the previous procedure of this law, you said that the Socialist Group was in favour of this Parliament appreciating the establishment of a good practice and anti-corruption office. And it is for several reasons: because we do it in line with what the Socialist Party is promoting in the rest of Spain, and, in fact, this proposal literally collects proposals already carried out in other communities. And we do it in line with the initiatives we promoted from the Basque Government, when they were... Go on. What has changed, Mr. Pastor? What's changed? What has happened between the issuance of the favourable criterion signed by Mr Erkoreka on 25 October 2018 and the issuance of the unfavourable criterion signed by Councilwoman Garamendi on 15 October 2020? In these two years, you know what's changed? Among other things, that on December 17, 2019 the ruling of the case of De Miguel, the largest corruption case affecting the dome of the Basque Nationalist Party in Araba, was handed down. That's what's been going on for the past two years. That's what's been going on for the past two years, Mr. Suso. That's been... There has also been another sentence, such as the Balenciaga case, of the former mayor of the PNV, to four years' imprisonment as well, on June 14, 2019. That has been between these two years of change of heart. And, of course, then we knew that the National Market and Competition Commission was also investigating and asking Basque public administrations and institutions for information, because a possible cartel was being investigated, as has finally been seen to have been the case. These kinds of issues... I mean, the thing hasn't gone away; the thing has gone away. And yet, the criterion is now unfavorable. And it's a troubling thing, because we think it means a certain kind of will to end up with some practical practices, and once again, in the company of eucals, in the community of corruption, in the case of appeals, clinicalism, in the frame of what is normal, and that because it's close to a particular political party, it gives you the advantage of subjugation, agreements, litigations, or public employments, as if it were normal. And that's not normal. And they can't be considered normal. And it's not normal being normal. And we've taken the initiative to end it. And we have brought this proposition in proposed and constructive manner, in favor of the general interest, because in this part of our nation there is need of a democratic hygiene, because we believe in a democratic royalty, and because we certainly do it for it. Entendiendo, además, la regeneción democrata en congenuncia coe de Xavier Vinaer de el Commbatæ contra la corrución, un combare ético, y socillural. But we don't see an easy attitude or any active attitude in some way, because it's all right to apologize, Mr. Urkullu, as you requested, but you'd better set your measures and take your step in the right direction, not lose this opportunity today. But it's comfortable in the old funk, old-fashioned way of doing it, installed. Un Gobierno installdo, acomidado, engestionar lo viejo, y desecha lo nuevo. And the Orteiz, our Jorge Otheiz, said, in creating something new, that the forward man behaves like a rower, going forward, but looking back and rowing towards the past, but always creating new codes. And we think, seeing what has happened here, we must turn back and look forward to it. And with this office, that's what we plan. And, to conclude, Madam President, Le Goff said that medieval society is essentially permanent, that it opposes change, clinging to values that look with suspicion at the alterations of an established order, but soon human creativity will begin to crack the foundations of this imposition. They do not impose their absolute majority. Do not block the processing of this law that benefits the entire Basque society. Last week you blocked an external and independent investigation in the case of consultants known as the Northern Cartel, to determine, among other things, whether there has been connivance or not...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u2	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u3	... of some administrations. They gave him a door. They missed a chance. And now, yes, to finish it, President. You lost that opportunity last week, but you'll have another chance to say no to improper practices, corruption, non-training behaviors, or clitian nets, and not to block them. You can use your absolute majority by taking a step to end irregular practice, or apply the rodillo to end the corruption, showing up the uninterested interest and the lack of political will once more. And don't block up the origin of the office for the right media and the corruption office, please, tonight.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u4	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Together, Podemos-Nozzer of the Animals, madam, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u5	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. It is one of the pillars of the state of justice that have the power to act according to the law. And it is the care of all political power or public power, and it is our duty to guarantee that it is so. And corruption is one of the most violent elements against the state of justice, corruption. And our duty is to act against it as hard and as clean as possible. Corruption is a complex phenomenon, which takes many faces. It is slippery and constantly renewed, always seeking to escape the controls and measures that are established against it, and always tries to explore new possibilities that it finds in its path. In each place it is presented in a different way and, therefore, in each place it must be addressed in a specific way. And Euskadi is not an oasis. However, it can be said that, unfortunately, in Euskadi there has not been much progress in preventing these new forms of corruption, this adaptation of the forms of corruption... stop; this issue has not been stopped. In the preprejudication of Por eso, ya, there was a prosecution against corruption which we defended. It was also proposed, that we should confess the protection of the accusers by law. They threw themselves back. And today, it may be said, about the formation of this office here proposed, the Government has given a contrary criterion. Rechazzada la fiscalías anticorupción, rechaura la protección a los que dención corruption, reciza unepital écie serede* la oficina anticopción. And what I think is that, considering our duty to explore all possible ways to curb that corruption that does explore all possible ways to circumvent all kinds of control, why is this office not needed?, why is these added controls not needed? It could be said that, in principle, anything with more resources to investigate and improve the quality of our democracy is fine. What should be explained, certainly, and a lot, is the opposite: why not defend these kinds of organisms? Obstacles to the existence of such bodies are misunderstood and misconstrued. At the beginning of my speech I said that corruption has multiple faces. And we know, indeed, that not all corruption has to do with money envelopes, but also. And in this country, we know, for example, that phenomena have occurred such as that of the catering cartel, in which there were a handful of companies that shared the services of the school jantoki as organized bands. And that's corruption, too. Also recently, in the last parliamentary term, here we met the scandal of the fake OPEs. There were a few chosen who had the questions of the opposition in advance, and this is also corruption. We also have classical corruption. The cases of Miguel, Hiriko have been discussed; that is, in Basquedi we also have corruption, and recently, very recently, we are still knowing, we have known and we are aware that a cartel of consultants, more than 20 companies, has been sanctioned, which have distributed at least 200 million euros in public contracts. How could they do this?, were there administrative irregularities?, did they have privileged information?, and where have the control mechanisms or legal and institutional arrangements that we are supposed to have to control all these activities?, which of these bodies with which we have now had to have foreseen the practices of this consulting cartel and which has not?, who is now investigating what can be the connivance of the Basque administrations with these companies? And another thing: who is designing measures that are needed to prevent this from happening again? Gobernuak ezezko iritzia eman di bolego hori sortzeko legeari, princepioz, ustez, badagoelako nahiko erakunde, nahiko instrumentu, hau guztiau, ustelkeria hau, geerta ez dadin kontrola egiten duena. Hori zalantzan jarri daiteke; nik zalantzan jarri dut. Dena her, orin dauzkagun instrumentuak kontuan hartuta ere, will badira geroko kontrol-instrument batzuk. The instruments we currently have to control corruption are ex post control. An a posteriori check is also provided, for example, by the Basque Court of Public Accounts, which analyses the annual accounts of our institutions, after these accounts are already closed. And, at the moment, we know that the amendment of this court is being dealt with in this Parliament - reference has also been made to this - and, in this process, we have been able to hear expert voices, among which are the managers of some bodies equivalent to the one that would be set up by this law today. And everyone, all of them, has spoken in favour of this type of office and its complementarity, in addition, with other control bodies. In Euskadi we have no preventive control bodies; we have a posteriori control bodies, which do not end up working completely well and, of course, we do not have preventive bodies, and this office could work in conjunction with the bodies we already have. I used to say this: corruption moves, takes new forms, there are new forms of corruption that sweep away established mechanisms or existing mechanisms, and they need to be constantly renewed in order to be able to combat it effectively. I believe that today we have an opportunity to open the way and to equip ourselves with a tool that we do need, that is in keeping with the new times and that it has been proven that it is also useful and necessary in other territories. That is why our group will vote in favour of this bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u6	Thank you, madam. In the opposite round, is anyone willing to join us? In reverse turn... In the opposite round, would someone like to participate? No? The discussion is over and we'll vote about whether the legal proposition is considered in detail or not. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 42; 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 42; the contrary is the abscessions, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u7	So it's not a question of legal proposal. Next, we'll go to the vote. Miss, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u8	Thank you, Madam President. We consider that, without doubt, it is necessary to investigate corruption in the Basque Country, even more so seeing the history that has been recounted of Basque nationalism, but it makes no sense to do so with an office led by them, with staff chosen by finger, who would point and sentence in the sense that the Basque Nationalist Party would be interested. If this office were to become a reality, we would see the birth of a new chiringuito, more spent on a citizenship already drowned by the cost of unnecessary entities and offices, only for the satisfaction of Basque nationalism in power. Imagine, for example, a nationalist or abertzale office investigating nationalist or abertzale corruption; obviously, it might have little meaning. So we have voted against taking this bill into consideration, but making it clear to me that we understand that we must fight corruption seriously, modifying the anti-corruption protocols, because they are ineffective, and equipping ourselves with effective tools to end this scourge that all Basques suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u9	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Our group has abstained, just as it did when this proposal or proposed law was initially introduced in 2018. It has abstained in the same way, because in essence the arguments remain valid, despite the fact that the situation, as far as cases of corruption are concerned, is indeed getting worse and cases are becoming more public and more serious. It misses the change in opinion of the Government's criterion for the consideration of this law, and it also misses the change of opinion of some groups that at the time also defended it, the consideration, with a certain vehemence and now it seems that they change or alter the meaning of the vote. Look, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against corruption needs three elements, three fundamental elements: Firstly, it is perhaps the most important, a social and political delegitimization, not only of corrupt conduct which, of course, constitutes a crime, but also of pseudo-corruption, irregular conduct, which, in the long term, will end up being another form of corruption. Social and political delegitimization, first of all. Secondly, there is a need to strengthen the independence and professionalism of the supervisory bodies. And here it is essential to establish systems and see how the members of the control bodies are elected or appointed and what profiles the people who are going to occupy control bodies have. The third point is to strengthen the judicial process, to give judges more means, to give more means to the Prosecutor's Office, to establish a specialized prosecutor's office, a prosecutor's office for anti-corruption offences or an anti-corruption prosecutor's office, to improve the training and the means of the police units for the prevention of economic crimes and so on. We have chosen these three ways, of course, without the need to create new bodies. By maintaining these three principles and developing them, we could arrive at a situation in which we would have the necessary elements to effectively combat corruption. We share the diagnosis of the need to combat corruption and of the need, above all, to delegitimize – I insist – socially and politically these cases of corruption or corruption that are taking place. They're situations, they're behaviors, they're very serious. Why do we believe that the creation of an agency such as the one proposed, the Office of Good Practice and Anti-Corruption, would actually be of no use if other characteristics are not met? Well, look; it's very easy to propose organs and so on, which can have a positive long-term purpose, but which will depend very much – it's almost a lottery – on the person who ends up running them. We have seen it in very recent cases, which I am not going to mention now, but you all know for sure. It is very easy to cheat in solitary; as Mrs Gorrotxategi has said before, one can design a series of preventive controls, set up an organ with a name that may be more or less appropriate (Office for Combating Corrupt Practices!); but, of course, if its director is then elected by an absolute majority and the government has an absolute majority, in the end, as has already been said, as Mrs Martínez says, we are also left with nothing. That is why there are three elements: first, the social and political delegitimization of such conduct. We have seen this recently: if in a serious situation in which it has been clearly seen that there have been situations of irregularity, practices that, for one reason or another, could not be penalized... This does not prevent the government from delegitimizing politically and delegitimizing these behaviors socially, a clear message is sent. The Government had a clear opportunity here, with the case mentioned above, of the consultant cartel uncovered by the CNMC, to do so, to set up an independent commission, and it did not do so: it adopted the role of being the counsel of the parties. Independence and professionalism. I think it is useless at this time to create a new organ of this type if we do not first profile very well how these types of organs have to be through, for example, the law that is being discussed now, which is the Basque Public Sector Law. We will introduce important issues in this regard. Finally, the judicial process, the Office of the Prosecutor and the means available to the police must be strengthened. The proposed and often rejected Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office, a specific Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office that is in the higher courts of justice and, above all, well-equipped. A judiciary, as I mentioned in the last plenary, which has the means, not as it is now, and a police which has the means, which, by the way, our group has tabled a number of amendments to improve its training, etc., in budgetary matters, and the groups all voted against. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, these are priorities; we do not vote against the existence of an office of these characteristics, but we believe that, with the resources we have, emphasis must be placed on other areas and at other times, especially now is the time, it is time to strengthen the judicial route, the way of the Prosecutor's Office and the way of the police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u11	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Today Mr Estarrona has had to give a twist in the void to explain why he is unfreezing an initiative that has been in the freezer for more than nine months. And he has commented that he was in a plan – I don't know if he now has a legislative calendar EH Bildu, perfect! – but, in the eyes of any spectator, no one hides that this is part of a strategy. In addition, if there were any doubts, he said it clearly in the past, when it came to the point concerning the sanctions of the National Commission on Markets and Competition. He said we needed a new organ. You ended up like this. He's dancing that perfect strategy you guys have designed. And I am not going to reproduce the debate that was already held last Thursday, because there is also no debate here; it is up to explain, simply, the position of the vote, and, moreover, because my colleague Sonia Pérez did it perfectly. But, of course, I am going to repeat a message. We cannot share, in any case, the certificate of death that EH Bildu intends to put on all the organs of previous control, which clearly exist, although here it has been said that no, how clearly they exist!, if not, what is the OCT? What are the agents and municipal secretaries? What are the organs and recruitment tables? And also the death certificate that EH Bildu intends to make against the a posteriori control bodies: the Basque Court (and the state) of Accounts, the Competition Commission, the Basque Competition Authority and the judges or prosecutors themselves. Nor can we share the shadow of suspicion that we want to launch, continuously, above all these kinds of organs. We said it very clearly last Thursday: it is undeniable that sometimes there are negligence, mistakes and even illegal, and even illegal! But from this point of view, the generality of the actions of the administrations is either that or that the general actions of those bodies of prior control and subsequent control are to look elsewhere, that is to say that the hundreds and thousands of public officials, technicians and managers who are there are committing crimes. And we cannot share, much less, that which arises. It seems that EH Bildu understands that all this would be solved by the creation of an agency. And I have to tell you that you've done something pretty ugly: you've talked about a previous debate, but without reading what was said and picked up in that session log. Of course, you have said what has changed, Mr. Pastor, with regard to this? I will read to you page 12 of the session diary 109, dated 2018, which contains what Mr. Pastor said to you: We are, therefore, in favour of the processing of this law by its intentions, although in its definition it seems to us to be moving away from the more ambitious project, which I believe we are already working on the Transparency Law – and here comes the important thing. A law, by the way – I want to remind you – which has been ruled out, as we have proposed, the creation of a specific agency, which, as it is known in other communities, has not been the most effective instrument in achieving what is proposed here. And it is not a position that we have now: when we were asked in the previous legislature to create a specific agency for the monitoring of administrative activities, we said, and that is how we are working on the presentation of the Transparency Act, which was more interesting to have these functions incorporated into the Data Protection Agency. The debate proposed to us by EH Bildu, and to which we agree, requires us to reflect on whether we need a supervisory body for everything or whether it is preferable that the functions that we are faced with here be redistributed for reasons of efficiency and effectiveness between entities already existing with the same work, such as the Court of Auditors, the Ararteko, the different public ethics commissions existing in different institutions and the Office itself, which is what we defend. You said that the debate is about an ethical fight; for that, you should start by telling the truth. We understand that there are many things to be done and that we must continue to do, among them, in the area of recruitment and in the area of strengthening transparency. The abolition of contracts negotiated without publicity on the basis of the amount of our legislation has taken a very important step in this direction, but we believe that it is necessary from Euskadi to continue to address concrete measures of compromise, with the values of transparency and good governance. In this regard, as you already know, within the legislative timetable forwarded by this Parliament and as reflected in the government agreement, a draft law on transparency and citizen participation is envisaged, and that is where we will debate with the same stance as the Socialists maintained in 2018. I've put in a session log; you've invented it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u13	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Atucha, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. Gure taldeak lege-proposamen Honen aintzat hartzeareen aurka bozkatu du, Gobernuaren irizpidarekin bat eginez. Izan ere, propose the egin two tandaren helburuarekin eta betan jasotako zenbait aurreikuspenekin ados egon gaitezkeen arn, ez gataz batren oinarre den ereduarekin. In our opinion, it defends – the proposal – a more repressive than preventive model, and we and we understand that the preventive dimension must be the predominant, since it is the most important aspect to develop. This is precisely what the Basque Government has been implementing for years. It is well known to you that the model we are betting on places the emphasis on building systems of institutional integrity, and not only thinking about public positions, but also for public employment and for those agents who operate with the Administration. It is an easy avenue, as some authors define it, to take counter-repressive measures. and we, on the other hand, are betting on pure preventive measures, which are called difficult avenues by Jimeén, which Asensio calls difficult. This proposal for a law also involves betting on models that have certainly been adopted in other public administrations. But what is no less true is that, unfortunately, not all the efficient things that were expected are being revealed; not always for endogenous causes, not always for endogenous causes! In many cases, it is due to pending legal changes, which limit, at present and today, their effectiveness and the objective for which they were created. There are offices in Nafarroa, Catalonia, Valencia, Madrid City Council, Barcelona City Council, with different denominations and functions. And in the Galician case, it is his court of accounts that has assigned some of the functions common to other offices. In the previous legislation, in consideration of the efficiency of certain measures received in the legal proposition, our team explained doubt. For we have instances to promote the whole, to promote transparency, and to prevent potential corruption. You all know them too well, and they are active and active in the service of the public euscal administration. We have internal instruments of economic-budgetary control and control: in the case of the General Administration, the Office of Economic Control; in the case of the Local Administration, the secretaries, the interveners... National empowerment, etc. The Basque Court of Auditors... I'm not going to go on with the list; you know it. We also have the Personnel Registration Service, the Code of Ethics and Conduct of Public Positions, the Public Ethics Commission, the Basque Commission for Access to Information... and, in addition, the judicial bodies and the Ministry of Public Prosecutions. As you can see, a panorama, at least dense. Dense. We do not believe that it is appropriate to create new public bodies of prevention, research, supervision, which involve superimposition of models, because this would surely imply a lesser effectiveness, and that today, in many matters, due – as I said earlier – to legal limitations, they cannot intervene in the way in which they were or were conceived. It was the opposite of taking our vote. For it would bring about the production of new structures, and this would obviously produce the increase of resources, which now is limited efficiency. And we do not agree with the haste of measure: As Mr. Rico has said, after registering and 275 days, and giving evidence against the government's approval, and 244 days later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u15	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Second point on the subject list: To discuss the procedures of EHGGGGA, as the parliamentary team has made, as the Open Room Fundamental Foundation. Discipline and final resolution. The caller's turn, Mr Fernández de Betoño, is your word, to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u16	Yes, hello. Good morning, everyone. The Open Room is a private foundation found that wants to be created by the Repsol Foundation. It's the goal to manage in the years following the EAE development of cities, especially when it's going to be done with the view of neurotic efficiency. In that private funding, it'll be 60% of the Repsol, and the rest of $40 is the Red Muncher. So, from the five seats that'll be on the path, there'll be three of the Repsols, and only two, the Euskékicks. It is evident, therefore, from any dispute, whose criteria will prevail. What we have hitherto done with this subject: In December, the discussion of the budgets, we revealed to the head of the Arriola department our concern, our doubt, our foundation; we did not yet know that it would be private; then we asked him for some information, and we found out what the constitution of that foundation would be. Even the other day, we asked the chief physician a question, and we think that we ought to carry this discussion with us, which we have brought to the present day, because this private foundation is about to be founded. We must therefore give thanks to the Table of the legislature, the nature of this other, by accepting it. It's rare, and we think it's symptoms. Why do we think it's urgent? The April itself, at the end of April, because the HUD signed an advance to create this foundation. The author was signed by one of the vice presidents of the Repsol Fundation. On the other hand, there is already a sketch of the statues of this private foundation; And the third point is, in this year's budgets, the budgets of 2021, there's a $850-000 game to create that foundation. So from here to the end of the year, or sooner (in the next few weeks, in the next months... ), this foundation will come out once and for all, and we believe that the discussion must be made today. I said in the budget there's 850 euros this year. But it must also be observed, that there are two engagements established for the next year: In 2022, producing this foundation for spending or investing a million dollars, and in 2023 to produce another million of euros. So we're talking about almost three million euros already, the ones that are tested, the budgets general. These numerals must be added, of course, by numbers of a project introduced into the Basque Next program, the project is called Project, integratedly reforming Project EAE's compact neighborhoods. The Open Room isn't mentioned in the title, but we asked for more information about investments, and we were informed that there would be a new rehearsal for the management of that project, and this new report is the private founding of the Open Room. The project's budget is pretty significant: $1.134 million. 1,130 million euros that will invest in that project for the next five years. So we're talking about Euskaki the most expensive project in the next December. And now, as to the version of May, the figure has not changed, it remains 1,1,30 million euros, but the project of the hydrogen corridor has cost a little more or more budgetd in the latest version. So we're just talking about the second most expensive project in Euskadi the next program. So we think the subject is very important. Of the $1,100 million, 500 million will be requested to Brusel. And then, if they come, after the World leaks, that 500 million will come from Europe. It's gonna be 600 million more to put in 420 private companies. At least that's the budget that the department gave us. And the other 180 million will be the ones that public administration will put into their general budgets: It'll be 40 million euros, and it'll be about 140 million dollars from the city councils at EA. So it's pretty significant that people who want to invest in that project for years to come. Why have I given all these numbers? To see the size of your project, how important it is, but also to see that private companies will only place it in the percentage from 420 to 1.100. And that's 38 percent. Repsol... I'm sorry, Repsol will have 60% of the Open Room Foundation, but when public funds are asked in Europe, he'll only put 38%, at most, into the project, which other private companies can fit into the project. So that's pretty significant, so it seems pretty strange to us. When we asked for information, as I said the other day to the Chief Arriola, the names of the private companies that were given us in black. We asked to see all the information. We went to the lake. And there they appeared, among the companies, Repsol and GNE Finance. GNE FIance or the Globe is a New Listurgy Fance company that pays loans, which was created five years ago, and by chance, the company that Repsol bought 20% of that company last year. So there's Repsol back there. Why did this company come in? Because he'll lend loans to the Openroom Project. We don't think it's a bad idea, because, after all, people who live in old-fashioned neighborhoods need the most economic help, so they probably need the help to face these innovations. In this case, it could be a loan. But we asked him for information, too, to know what conditions, what conditions, what loans that GNE FIance will give. And the information that was given to us was: A loan will be called the Open Room loan, which is the nature of that loan, or the terms are that the loans between 5100 and $1,000 will be given to return in 15 years. And the interest they'll be interested in will be a fixed interest at 7%. This fixed interest, 7%, can be lowered to 5%, if it can be done through a work that is done, and it increases three letters. The idea, in itself, does not appear to us bad, because it is thus fostered to attain really spiritual science by means of these works and loans. And the conditions of these loans are not so bad as they are, but if they are looked at the loans given by the other banks, or by other financial entities, it may be said that this loan is no longer a swamp, it is not particularly good. So we don't quite understand why you have to put up with that specific company. We need to know, too, that a fund will be created in the private founding of the Open Room. And therefore I speak of these loans, because I have said before, that the persons who are in those old neighbors are the persons who require the greatest benefit or loans, to prevent them; and it may happen that they are not compensated in regard to them. What's the private management of the Open Room? Create a fund, a social security fund, to cover up those non-profits. So if things go well, it'll be all the benefits or benefits for Repsol and GNE Finance companies, and if things go wrong, it'll come to help you, at least 40%, not to hold on to that fund. This example of this private commonwealth seems to us to be the exchange: When things go well for private corporations, but if they go badly, there's the public administration to cover up those non-profits. We don't think we're against private settlement from the EH Union. The chief physician told me that this pattern has come to stop, with a threatening air: We are not opposed to this example; we say it is not right to say that as it is here planning, and that we think it must be public control, and that it cannot be counter-contradicted, because the most important project of our restoration to a private company in the years to which it is referred is to cannot be sub-contradicted. For this reason the proposition which we have brought here today rests on four points. The first point is to stop the creation process of this private foundation. We don't say cancel, we say stop. What for? Second point to apply. What we're saying at the second point is that we have to prove that we really have to create a new organization or to create a new entregation in this town, and that if we have to create a new organization, we have to prove that this organization must be a foundation. The second point, then, is to make two reports: one, economic, and the other legal. And we believe, by these reports, at least, that it would justify whether a foundation should be required or not. The third point is, that if a new organization is justified in creating it, and even this institution must be a foundation, the majority should be more than half the capital, the administration of public administration. It's not allowed to start a private foundation right now, it's about 60%, and it's just funk 40. For before any dispute, in any affair, the view of private enterprise will prevail. And we believe that there are great social consequences and sociological consequences behind the government's projects, and that we must guarantee that the general interest is sought. The majority of public administrations may not have a sufficient condition, but it seems to us that the condition is necessary. Yeah? Hence, at the third point, we demand that there should be more than half of this new institution. And at the final point, at the fourth point, we ask for a logical thing, and it is that there are public competitions, whether it is to create this institution, or to draw from it all the contracts which this organization has to impose, to transfer them into litation, is it not? And now we think it's a very bad start with a certain company... Be careful, we have nothing against Repsol, we don't have any opposition to GNE Finance, but let them compete, like other companies, in a clean and public competition. What cannot be done has been done here, or if they come, to create a private foundation with them in the years that come to manage the projects of innovations. The principle of public competition is, therefore, what we demand at the fourth point. As I said, we're not against the Open Room Project, we're on behalf of the Open Room Project. We think it's important. We think the councils need help, but they need help. What we mishears is to create a private foundation and to counter-contradict the entire leadership to a certain company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u17	Thank you, Mr. Fernández de Betoño. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mistto, Mrs Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Basque economy, according to the Eustat, has lost more than 7 billion euros. Eustat says: EUR 7 billion, that is more than half of the region's budget. The Basque Country has never suffered an equal setback in its economy and, again, in the Basque Parliament, we are forced to denounce how the Basque Government wastes public money on the creation of chiringuitos, with which it is falling, ladies and gentlemen, with which it is falling! What is the Basque Nationalist Party expert on? In the creation of opaque entanglements, chiringuitos, which allows them to place their own here and there; it is not illegal corruption, of course not, for unfortunately, the law protects this torturing form from wasting money, but it is undoubtedly immoral, it is immoral! 850.000 euros is prepared by the Government to create this chiringuito. Money of all Basques, wasted. In addition, more than 85% of the population has been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Is that how the Basque Nationalist Party takes care of its people? To the party, yes; to the rest, crisis, misery and ruin. I will give you one example: with this money, Vox would grant 600 euros of aid to all the Alavese hoteliers, a figure of course insufficient, but better in the pocket of people than in the pocket of politicians. What is the essence of the problem? Insolidarity, duplication, inefficiency, inequality and waste... These are the characteristics that define the management of our autonomous communities. 17 systems in competition, with 17 political classes competing to see where to place your friends in turn. The Spaniards could save more than 25 billion euros each year that the autonomy is spent, without the citizens losing any service – I repeat –, no service! We all have to maintain 17 systems, 17 legislations, and that costs money, money that goes from citizens' pockets to politicians. Our country, ladies and gentlemen, has a serious disease, and it is called the state of autonomy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u19	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The Basque Popular Group, representative of Ciudadnos, Mrs. Larrea, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u20	Good morning. Look, the Opengela Foundation cannot be a vehicle to replace public action, the responsibility of the Basque Government, by private action, financed by public funds. It is the Foundation's own statutes that say in article 3, foundational purposes, in a textual way: "To act as a managing body of public and private resources that could be used for these purposes, which are – and I quote again – to contribute to the design, promotion, dissemination and implementation of public policies in the area of regeneration, renovation and rehabilitation of the built or urbanized heritage of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, through specific programs. In other words, the Opengela Foundation does not bring anything new to society; it only replaces it, because it is so vague to promote, disseminate and implement public policies on regeneration that it has to subcontract to a foundation. And we don't know the resources the Opengela Foundation is going to count on, that is, the human resources and the people who are going to work on it. The Basque Government, faithful to its customs, before defining the means to be provided by the foundation, has already secured two posts in the patronage. That's it. So far the work of the Basque Government. It is worrying to see how Opengela's constitution has already cost us 850,000 euros, and in 2022 and 2023 it will cost us one million each year. There's the credit for those years. And here the questions that arise are: how will the Opengela Foundation comply with the purposes defined in the statutes? Why does Opengela have to do this when the competent administration is the Department of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transportation? Just as the problem is to assume that the department, that competent administration, when in reality if it has to subcontract its work, is an incompetent administration. The Basque Government does not have to have much confidence in the project, when it has already cut 100,000 euros in it before it starts. According to the May budget performance report, the budget line for Opengela in 2021 has increased from 850,000 to 750,000. And the truth is, we're happy, because it's 100,000 euros that we stop spending on department-specific functions. But it says a lot about the improvisation in which the department headed by Mr Arriola is buried: before you start you have already cut the funding by 11.7%; then, to see if we are lucky, and with a couple more cuts, you leave the budget to zero. Some of the purposes of the Opengela Foundation can only be achieved with information from the Administration. The Foundation's statutes say that they will – and I quote textually again – advise beneficiaries to obtain tax subsidies and subsidies, especially in cases of social exclusion, social vulnerability, energy poverty and long-term unemployment. But how will the foundation know, in private, who are long-term unemployed or who is a vulnerable user or who suffers from energy poverty? All these collectives, which of course have to be advised, have to be through the Administration, which knows the situation of each of them. And the Administration cannot assign that information from vulnerable citizens or anyone else to any foundation, as proposed by the statutes. Are you saying that, from social services, you want to give personal data to a private foundation? You know this can't be done, and if you don't, the situation is worse than I imagined. However, Bildu's proposal here today has more to debate if the foundation is to be private or public, public or private. And I am pleased with what Mr Fernández de Betoño has said, which they understand and believe in public-private collaboration; but when this public action is to be financed, which has to be public, with public funds, through a private entity, we leave much to be desired. We will therefore abstain from the Bildu proposal, but we have our reservations about this foundation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Having passed over the teams that have not committed correction, together Podemos-Nozzerzka, Martínezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u22	Good morning. Together we haven't included any corrections from Podemos-Tureerda Unidaa, because we were essentially agreed and agreed with the original initiative, we need a public leader in the Eucharist's innovation to support the competition of private corporations who run public money and participate in it. After all, it's only in this legal way that we stop creating the Open Room Foundation, study it carefully, and do things right. For the sake of justifying you here, in the presence of the parliament, for reasons that justify this foundation, and also for its inability to establish it. All of us – I believe all of us – agree on the importance of rehabilitation policies in Euskadi. That figure of 43% of the buildings in Euskadi being built before 1961 is a good indicator. We all know that effort, but it is an effort that has so far been insufficient. This effort will now be accompanied by European funds, both in the plans of the Basque Government and in the plans of the Government of the State; certainly, yesterday approved by the European Commission and in which there is an allocation of €5.8 billion for rehabilitation programmes in Euskadi. One news, yesterday's, which is one of the best news we have received in recent years, and now it is up to us to manage these funds with transparency and fidelity to the objectives, which is the economic recovery of Europe. And those funds, moreover, must now be fought, so that they can reach their just ends, in their fair proportions to all the autonomous communities and, of course, also to Euskadi. And that is why the debate that we have on the table today is also important. Francisco Javier Martín is the Director General of Housing and Soil at the Ministry of Mobility, Transport and Urban Agenda. A few months ago, he said that in these funds, under this heading of Euro5.8 billion, the creation of rehabilitation offices would also be encouraged, not only to report, but to do the whole cycle with the agents of the sector, in the form of one-stop shops. That's Opengela, a unique window in the neighborhoods, to serve the citizenry, to facilitate solutions... and in particular, on a subject that we think is important. And that is why, like Mr Fernández de Betoño, I say that we have nothing against what the project itself is, but about how it is being managed, which is focused as a priority in the vulnerable neighbourhoods of Euskadi. A shared goal that I believe many of the groups in this House could share. And in addition, that objective of rehabilitation, from our group, we have also demonstrated it in recent years in each and every process of debate of the budgets, with the increase of the allocations for rehabilitation aid. What surprises us, really, is that the Basque Government, Mr Arriola, takes on a secondary role in this film and that, assuming that role as a secondary actor, puts in the hands of a private foundation, the Repsol company, 60% of the leadership of rehabilitation policies, which will be managed through Opengela. That is what we see in the pre-agreement, management and execution of integral urban regeneration in Basque, in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, in the hands of a private foundation, in which the Basque Government, however much it may say, does not have the singing voice. Two out of five, mostly Repsol... What does Repsol's foundation do in this process? Why are they raising public-private cooperation to the category of mantra, in the response which he also gave in an inquiry in this Parliament? I do not think anyone is opposed to companies cooperating with the public in the management of certain matters. But this, the elevation to mantra, is what leads him to delegate, once again – and I read textually – the planning, organization, management and execution of urban regeneration in Basque in a foundation of a multinational, which is not the foundation of any religious congregation. Will it have nothing to do with the struggle between the big multinationals for European funds? Is there no other way to manage these things? We are surprised, Mr Arriola, that a foundation is created, and we are even more surprised that it is of private majority participation. Three out of two for Repsol, what does this mean? Why not a model, for example, of public-private collaboration, in which a joint venture, a public-private enterprise, with a capital of 51% public, in which we guarantee control and last word, and 49% private? In the event that this was also necessary, if a foundation was necessary... Why not a fully public rehabilitation company to manage these funds, why just a financial company? We don't understand. We find it grave to delegate such policies to a multinational foundation, a policy that should be led by the Basque Government. But they just egg us. The Repsol Foundation... in the hands of the rehabilitation policy in Euskadi, an Opengela which aims to improve social cohesion, decarbonisation and compliance with international agreements such as Paris, the agreement of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, setting out measures for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Best partner for that, Repsol. Hallucin... A petrochemical multinational, which is the third radio station in the Spanish state of CO 2 and responsible for 0.33% of global CO emissions 2 between the year 88 and 2015, a clear example of progress in decarbonisation policies! I was saying at the beginning: for my group, both here and in all the institutions in which we are, housing rehabilitation policies, in energy and social matters, are first-rate policies and are policies that we defend from the very beginning, and we are convinced – and we have been doing so for many years – that they are necessary policies to boost the economy, to generate employment, to improve the quality of life of people and also to combat climate change, but things can be done differently. The role of the municipalities is probably mentioned here, but do not use the municipalities as parapet to justify the creation of Opengela Fundazioa. Town halls have every right in the world to ask their superior institutions for all the help of the world in rehabilitating their municipalities. That is what the municipalities do, and what the Basque Government should do is lead that process and not leave it in the hands of others. And we are also concerned about Opengela: why the Repsol Foundation and not a different foundation?, why that financial company and not other financial companies?, who has decided that?, at what meeting has it been decided?, on what criteria are they based to choose one and not another? And this concerns us – and we have said it before – and the figures have already been explained, the figures for the billions of euros that are going to be managed in the Spanish state and we expect them – also – more than 1,000 that are going to be managed in Euskadi. Why not do it with transparency? We are aware, and will not deny it, of the bureaucratic challenge of managing European funds and all that entails. But let us say again: if anything has shown us this pandemic, it is that the only Administration or the only system that supports the vavenes of economic crises and the vavenes of managing economic recovery is the leadership of the Public Administration. Therefore, from Elkarrekin Podemos and United Left we believe that it is time to lower the ball, stop to think, stop to reflect if this is the best method to manage these European funds, especially to get to what we have to get to, which is to benefit Basque citizens and, especially, the vulnerable citizens of Euskadi and improve their quality of life, and also to fight climate change. We think that there is time to rectify, to manage from the public, with the private collaboration that is needed, but on conditions of equality, competition, free competition, and to ensure that the conditions of rehabilitation in Euskadi are done in that way, and not for the profit of a few. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u23	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists. Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of Investigation. Partners. Good morning, everyone. Today we are discussing the non-legislative proposal for the Opengela Foundation. And, first of all, I must highlight the apparent consensus between the proposer and – I dare say – the rest of the groups in this House and the Government on the need to develop a programme of intervention in the neighbourhoods, with particular attention to the most vulnerable, which can serve as a model for its extension to the whole of Euskadi, and with it to achieve the improvement of the living conditions of the entire population, the reduction of inequalities and of spatial or urban segregation and the progress towards the goal of decarbonization of the entire park built in 2050. In short, let no one or any place be left behind. And before I talk about the Opengela program, I'm going to talk about the context in which this project is born. The Basque Government's programme for the twelfth parliamentary term identifies and concretes the challenges we face: the energy-ecological transition and the improvement of social cohesion or the reduction of urban and residential segregation in Euskadi. The Basque Law on Energy Sustainability states, in its statement of reasons – and I quote textually – that within the scope of the obligations relating to buildings and housing, the energy rating of all existing buildings is required and that new or substantially reformed buildings are of almost zero energy consumption. It should be recalled that the energy consumption of buildings accounts for around 20% of total consumption and that the few actions carried out in this building sector make it one of the sectors with the greatest capacity to improve and contribute to the reduction of energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. And you will also agree with me, Mr Fernández de Betoño – and you have also said this – that the dimension of the challenge we face is truly colossal: there are 181,865 buildings in Euskadi that house 1,123,289 housing units, of which barely 1% can be considered as almost zero energy consumption, which means that by 2050 all of them will have to be involved. If we share the analysis of the experts who point out that by 2050 80% of the built park will be made up of buildings already built today, we will also agree that it is necessary to prioritize actions on the existing building. And we will agree that in order to boost the improvement of the buildings already built it is not enough to have an adequate regulatory framework; specific impulse measures are also needed. These measures should include appropriate incentives, support for agents and investment mobilizations. To move towards climate neutrality in the building sector from 2030 onwards and to achieve zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, collaboration between public administrations and private entities is required and the incorporation of technologies and changes in a sector that will become essential in the coming decades, such as intervention in our cities and inhabited environments. In spite of the efforts of the public administrations and the significant investments made during almost 40 years – 1983 – to improve the conditions of the Basque neighbourhoods and cities, according to the data obtained in the revision of the Inventory of Urban Vulnerability, more than 30% of the population of Euskadi is still in a situation of very high or high vulnerability, keeping in this situation the areas declared as areas of integral rehabilitation or degraded areas. This means that the management and funding measures and formulas used so far have not been sufficient to reverse existing spatial or urban segregation conditions. Citizens' initiatives face great difficulties in obtaining the necessary funding for rehabilitation activities. At present, the individuals who intend to carry out these works, either cannot access the loans, or, by being able to access the credit, under the conditions offered to them, this makes them reluctant to resort to the credit to undertake these works. And this is where the Opengela program is born, led by Councillor Arriola and developed by a consortium of public and private entities, which aims to develop a model of intervention in the neighborhoods of our cities and villages, that allows its conversion into energetically positive, climate-neutral neighborhoods that are carbon sinks, socially cohesive, friendly, accessible, with integration of green and blue infrastructures that allow to recover the urban space for people, equipped with proximity equipment that enable their revitalization. With this programme, it is intended to respond to the accompanying and management needs that this challenge requires, with a network of well-trained proximity offices and with the guarantee of a financing instrument that allows all living units to access adequate funding to their conditions. And this, Mr Fernández de Betoño, cannot be achieved with public resources alone and, as you rightly point out, cannot be left in the hands of the private sector either. But it is also a reality that, in order to attract commitment and private resources, it is also necessary for such public-private collaboration to be carried out through an agile, operational and effective system. In line with this approach, it is intended that the Opengela programme, extended to the entire Basque Autonomous Community, should be managed in a single and coherent way throughout the Basque Country, which is why the model of intervention envisages the establishment of a managing body, which, in accordance with the guidelines and policies of the Government, can use the deployment of this policy for the rehabilitation of buildings and urban regeneration, described in the law as a policy of general interest. This particularity leads to the conclusion that the managing entity should be configured as a non-profit entity. This is why the Opengela programme management body is set up as a foundation that can operate throughout the territory of Euskadi, and not for profit, that can establish systems of collaboration with the public administration, especially with the municipalities interested in the implementation of the programme in its municipal term, and that can reach the precise economic funds in the form of credit, directly subscribed by the beneficiary individuals and families. The Administration can participate as a guarantor of the programme, but under no circumstances can it be held accountable for the defaults that may be generated as a result of the funding. The combination of public and private sources of financing proposed is in line with the approach promoted by the European Commission and the European Investment Bank, and allows for maximizing the impact generated by public funds, while providing a mechanism for participation by capital markets. In conclusion, the implementation of the Opengela programme facilitates access to finance for individuals to make such investments on more favourable terms. It also favours the development of sustainable energy and housing policies, the boost of economic activity and the creation of occupation by the public authorities. And this, moreover, without increasing public spending or debt. Public resources available for rehabilitation are limited, and tend to decrease due to competing demand in other areas of the public sector: health, education, immigration and reception, infrastructure, security, public transport, social welfare, etc., etc. And so, a partnership with the private sector can attract innovative financing models, private capital, and encourage support for the development of projects that will drive building rehabilitation programmes. In fact, well-structured public resources serve as a basis for supporting private capital-funded building rehabilitation programmes that are low-interest and long-term. I suppose you know that, in order to attract capital at low cost and in the very long term and thus to obtain affordable contributions, you have to reduce the perception of risk in the financing activity. This is why the combination of public capital with private capital is proposed for the creation of a financing instrument that will cover up to 100% of the investment in the most disadvantaged cases, and operate as a guarantee for those who can access Opengela financing. With this model, public resources can help reduce the cost and risk of financially supporting the development of the building rehabilitation programme. At the moment, the multiplier effect of public resources is five. This ensures a contribution of private resources for loan financing granted through private resources or, in other words, with the contribution of each public euro, four euros of private origin will be put into operation. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u25	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beragon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u26	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, all good days. The opening room has been mentioned here because it's a project driven by M.M.M.M.M., and its goal is to improve the quality of life in cities and neighborhoods by regeneration or regeneration. In those neighborhoods, offices open, single-windowed windows, and neighbours are helping in the whole process. At this early stage, the Opengel put two pilots in motion: one, Bilbon, in the bakery, and the other in the Gipuke, in Eibar, in the Chonta. And the end is to improve the quality of life in these neighborhoods, as I have said, as efficiently effective, or even universal access. The project has been supported by the 2020 programmes in Europe, but the goal of Euskozoa is this model, this bearable model, extending, as has been said, accessible from the city-making and social view. And the most vulnerable neighborhoods and collectives, no one to leave behind. The Euskadi Next Program has also been mentioned. From the point of view of a town-babatt, a large number of investments are foreseen, even from the hands of a public project, or from a number of projects in private public enterprise. We're facing a huge demographic agency, with great challenges in front of us. And the rest of them, they're just trying to encourage vulnerable, suffering, and inclusive cities. "Esquekadi Monk, in that sense, is worth the use of hand in the neighborhoods that are in a vulnerable state. And here has been mentioned the old apartment park, which is very old, and is also intended to encourage the re-establishment of it, as well as a special interest in empty dwellings. Erronka benetan handia erakunde publikoentzat, eta datozen urteetan plan handi horiek jasotako egitasmoak aurrera erakunde publikoentzat, eta datozen urteetan plani horiek jasotako aurrera erakunde benetan lan handia izango dugu. Challenges which, I would say, from public institutions, must be faced with a model of collaborative governance, also with private entities, based on a shared vision of the future, because the country has to build it among all, and the actions necessary to make it a reality must also be shared. Ahaleginak batratzeko lankidetza-governorntzaren herdua ezarri behar dugu, éta Eusko Jaurlaritzak leader biderazailea hartzen du zentzu horretan. Eta europar funtsak kudeatzeko ere, lankidetza publiko-pribatua, nik asango nuke bear egokia formula from her. EH Bildu brings today a debate of a non-law proposal to paralyse the Opengela Foundation, of which we know, at least so far, that there is a pre-agreement for its creation. The foundations are organizations – little has been said here – not for profit, which, by the will of the founders, have permanently affected their heritage to the attainment or realization of purposes of general interest, which are governed by the will of the founders, by the statutes and also by the law. We believe that to associate with the institutions and privates is a useful formula. Besides, in our country, we have a great tradition, many foundations have been formed, and I believe the results have been very good from the foundation. We must not forget that it is an organization without a design of gain, which produces and achieves a particular object of general interest, and which, when it has always the share of a public institution, will have the public control. General interest, when the Administration cannot satisfy itself of efficacy or efficacy, when the materials or organizations of the human resources and resources of the public sector are insufficient, a public institution may or may decide to be a part of an organization already active. And this decision may take many legal forms, and there is also a foundation among them, but it is not the only one. And in the end, economic reports, technical or legal reports will advise him to decide the best form of the legal formula of this public institution or of this public administration. In addition, public institutions may constitute foundations, or participate in their constitution, exclusively to promote the participation of individuals or public or private entities in activities of general interest. However, such a constitution must always be authorized by the competent body in each institution, following a procedure in which it must also be explained and justified, the reasons or reasons on which it is considered that the purposes of the general interest will be achieved by such a foundation. In this parliament, too, it is at this moment a new bill of law with respect to the public sector, where the foundations of the public sector will also be regulated. And on the other hand, it is said that the Chinese project is a tramite, and we'll all have the chance that the public sector can act on one case through the foundation, which is the purpose and the general interest which it is intended to accomplish when it cannot be confirmed by the legal information of the typeology established on that law. It is plain, therefore, that this private public co-worker may be effected by foundation, or by a legal institution of another kind. And the institution itself must have to justify, cultivate, and decide what is the best legal formula. So far, the Open Room Foundation we're talking about today... that is what I said: "Uracerdo para la creacion de la fundación." That's all we got. Alone, as I have mentioned, a public scene made by the chief physician of the Arriolas and the general directors of the Repsol Fundation. But to create a foundation, as I said before, there is a long transmation: An annual management plan, its formation, its status, its initial economic growth... And that would start an administrative tramitation, and the Fedal Advision Committee would have to check in, where all the Eusk0s are represented. And until now it is just at the beginning. To conclude, we must always be in favour of a private public co-worker, and, indeed, in order to face all the challenges that had been said before. We have always continued in this country, because we must build the people among all, by means of this cooperation and cooperation. and, above all, in the management of public resources, and of course in the execution of the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Passing the answers, Mr Fernández de Betoño is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u28	Hello again. Dreadful! I agree with the 100 percent that Mrs. San José said and the 100 that Mrs. Beragon said. I'd sign it all. Everything! Mrs. San José never mentioned the word Repsol in her whole speech, and once Mrs. The discussion today is not about the Open Room program, the Open Room Project, the need for reforms, the private public collaboration... No. The Doa Open Room with private Fundting, where Repsol will have 60%, and only AGREK 40%. That's what's legal about it. And I shall repeat what I have said before: We're not against the Open Room Project, we're not against the Open Room Program. You know, it's not just helping, it's got to lead the process. That's why we brought this proposal because it's not the leadership. That's the problem. It is very necessary that these reforms should be faced with the view of the necessitical science. Of course, it's very important. Yes, we have an old park. We all agree with that. We do not see amiss the principle of the single eye, because it facilitates the business of the neighbours to the people. Another thing is that the only viewport doesn't mean the only option. You can form a single window, give the neighbor a choice. That's something you should think about, too. Our position towards the Open Room project is, I think, sufficiently clear, and cannot be said more clearly: We've been in the Open Room project on some council sites we run. I think that's the most obvious proof that we're not against the project or the program. But what we brought to the discussion today is not a project or a program, it's a private foundation that's going to happen to you about a program or a project. That's right, that's the discussion. I have already observed that we are not opposed to the private public system; but, above all, where the social conclusions are very large, we believe that the general interest must be secured, or at least there must be some minimum conditions. And we believe that the condition or condition of that is indispensable to the leadership. I said, too, we have nothing against Repsol or GNE Finance. Welcome to Repsol, who dedicated all his life to oil, and now it seems that he is looking for other small business firms in the field of neurotic effertitude. Well, welcome, I mean, it's a pleasure. Society will be happy, and above all, the environment will be grateful. I think we should show up for that. Another thing is to create with them a dedo or a digitally such private foundation. Let them compete in public competition, together with the other companies, or against the other corporations, in public. That's the discussion here, and that's the discussion today, and don't make the neighborhood turn up or not. So we believe that the public leadership is required. This project is very important, it will take a lot of money. And we believe that you are really making a very large mistake by creating this private foundation and giving it up to a private company for at least five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u29	Thank you, Mr. Fernández de Betoño. Mist must not speak. Basque Popular Group-Ciudados, Mrs. Larrea? Yeah? From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u30	See, we want to make it clear that a foundation is not good or bad because it is involved by public administrations. There are examples of foundations or societies that create well-being for society and that their action is remarkable. The case of the Opengela Fundazioa is different, because its statutes do not include any function that is not performed or does not have to be performed by the public administration; therefore, the feeling is that the Basque Government seeks to replace the public initiative with private initiative with public funds. We all agree on the end of the Opengela project. What we do not agree, however, is that the control of public competition should be skipped; that is, it is only a few companies that are going to decide, and this skips everything we have so far from public control or from competition, as has been said so far. We already know that the important thing is that an urban regeneration is carried out, an energy renewal of the depressed areas, but we need to know how to do it right, and for that we have the public mechanisms to do it according to what this type of urban regeneration has to be.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Together Podemos-Nozzer, Martíni-Inez, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u32	Thank you. Lehenik eta behin –lehenengo txandan ére esan dut –, nik uste dut bigarren txanda honetan hartuko part of a tande guztiok helburu konpartitu bat daukagula ebaberritze-politiketan eta gure auzo eta ferrien ebaberritze horretan. Horrekin teens nago eta teens gaude Opengelaren helburuekin, but we have not heard a single reason – I don't know, even in the second round surprise us – nor a lit defense of why the Repsol Foundation; we have not heard justifications based on objective and empirical data, no justification. And I think that's what the original initiative was looking for: first to provoke the debate also on models of public money management. We all agree with those objectives of social and green rehabilitation, of a single window, of facilitating work for citizens, of facilitating work for trade unions. Zergetik bath foundation pribatu hau? Zergatik ez batan modus beasts? Zergatik ez modu parekide batan Eusko Jaurlaritza eta Repsol Foundation, edo Eusko Jaurlaritzak hiru esterleku eta Repsolek bi Foundation? Zergatik? Oraindik niri ez called inork azaldu zergatik. Why not Visesa? Why don't you do Visesa, for example? Or why is there no agreement with energy producers and rehabilitation companies in Euskadi and a large partnership with small, medium and large companies in Euskadi? Why only the Repsol Foundation? Why not the Iberdrola Foundation? I'm asking you to go to another frame. The lehendakari was with the president of Iberdrola a couple of days ago, and an agreement could have been signed in that regard. There is no one who has explained to us the reason for signing and creating this new foundation, alone and exclusively, with the Repsol Foundation. It is therefore true that we always look at private participation in the public sector in detail; although, I say again, it is particularly important, but that it be done under conditions of competition, that it be done under conditions of transparency, so that these funds will then be managed correctly; because we do not need a single window if then everything will be decided by the majority of that foundation. And I say again: why a particular financial company, not Kutxabank, not the Labour Fund, the Rural Fund or any other bank? Or why not Triodos Bank, which is an ethical bank, also expert in sustainable construction? I mean, I'm not doing side by side or proposing any concrete alternative that the government has to shape; but, options on the market there is, and why is that only established? And why only the Repsol Foundation, and not foundations with social work, such as the BBK Foundation, the Vital Foundation or the Kutxa Foundation? It is that we do not understand it; therefore, until we are explained, we will not be able to support the creation of this foundation in the characteristics that it is created at the moment, however much we agree on the final objectives of Opengela, and we believe that, for the sake of the management of public funds, transparency and that money arrives in the way that it has to reach the citizenry, things have to be done in another way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u33	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Mrs. San José, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u34	...of the proposed law not submitted. As for its first and second point, and the need not to stop the process of setting up the Opengela programme manager, whose name will be Opengela Fundazioa – if the constituent process is to be completed, I insist – because I have already said this in my previous intervention, is that the project is taking on a dimension that requires, immediately, the articulation of management instruments. We are talking about the scale of a challenge facing the Department of Territorial Planning to achieve the decarbonization of the entire built-up park, and this makes it essential to promote and develop the public-public and public-private collaboration mechanisms necessary to make it a viable thing. For this reason, it is essential in the model proposed to have both the collaboration and involvement of municipalities and private actors. The department is also aware of the limitation of public resources and of the impossibility to assume, through subsidy lines and programmes, the coverage of the financing needs required by the upgrade of the built park. It is essential to incorporate private resources to finance such interventions. The Opengela programme, as has been pointed out, aims to be a single window, but its objective is to respond effectively to the main obstacles that hinder the construction of buildings to improve their energy efficiency and rehabilitation: the lack of accompaniment and technical advice, the lack of access to more suitable financial products and the absence of specific programmes for the most vulnerable population. With regard to point three and four of the non-legislative proposal, I must say that in this new formula of public-private collaboration – administration, of course, very competent, Mrs Larrea–, the Administration can also play an important role in verifying the feasibility of programmes and service providers involved in the interventions, which must have sufficient capacity and are, as far as possible, local, to assess the measures of corporate social responsibility adopted by potential providers (fair wages, job insecurity, hiring of persons with disabilities, gender equality, conciliation, etc.), and to monitor that the programmes really meet the general and local public interests, and that the proposed actions are aimed, indeed, at the purposes described above and to ensure that individuals receive clear and understandable information and expert advice, enabling them to know the alternatives, advantages, costs and risks of undertaking this type of rehabilitation work. And under no circumstances will there be data transfer. Personal data, of course, will be given directly by individuals to the entity. In short, we are talking about ensuring and ensuring compliance with public policies on the rehabilitation of buildings and comprehensive urban regeneration, while complying with the principles of publicity, competition, transparency and equality in their procedures. It is clear that if the claim – which is – is to succeed, it must be made possible for all people to have access to just and affordable financing. It should be remembered that there are already four neighborhoods that make up the initial project (Txonta, Otxarkoaga, Aramotz and Basaundi Bailara), to which the Andonaegi neighborhood of Trintxerpe in Pasaia, foreseen in the general budgets of this year, will soon be added. Four new neighbourhoods in municipalities in the regions of Ezkerraldea and Meatzaldea, in the context of preferential area plans, and the provision of significant resources that can come from the Next Generation funds for the development of the comprehensive urban regeneration project included in the Euskadi Next 2021-2026 programme. All that has been said, Mr Fernández de Betoño, justifies the need for the creation of a foundation, which, of course, will have the necessary legal and economic reports in its handling. Multilevel and multi-actor collaboration, so often mentioned and claimed and so rarely visualized, to carry out the interventions of rehabilitation of buildings and of integral urban regeneration promoted by the Department of Territorial Planning, Housing and Transport. And, look, Mrs. Martínez, there's a saying that the thief who is all of your condition is thought of, and it denotes the ease with which we think or suspect others are or act like us, especially when it comes to bad actions or attitudes, and that is that the leader of your party knows a lot; so please don't come here and give lessons and resolve your internal contradictions. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u35	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Eternate patriot shouldn't speak a word. So, when we're finished arguing, we'll vote for the original text of the proposition as well as the EH Collector. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 75; 42; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 42; the oppositions are 42; the abscessions are 6; white ones; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u36	So, not allowed original text. After that, we'll vote for the entire Misto group's correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 75; the given votes, 42; the 10th, 1st; the contrary, 74; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u37	So it's not accepted. And finally, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Popular Group-Chapanos. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; 75; the supporters, 6; the contrary, 41; the abscesssion, 28; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u38	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. Forth point on the theme list: Tripoli Motua Carmulus Barrius Barroja, the popular group of the Ciudadans, a member of the allied agricultural policy of the future. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mr. Bario, representative of the popular Basque Group-Ciudadnos, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u39	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselors, ladies and gentlemen... In these days of threats to the countryside, in the form of hail lately, but also in the form of some issues that have to do with the funds, with the negotiation of the CAP, it is a good time to talk about agriculture – now that we are almost in summer – of the needs of the countryside, of the food chain, of a sector that is basic for our subsistence, for our economy, and of something that we have to recognise that has worked well in this pandemic and that must continue to do so. Agrarian policy, with its political and institutional dimensions, with the autonomous governments or the central government, the outlaws in our case, professional organizations, cooperatives, big and small, everything is there and all the needs... that Europe must continue to be involved in these institutional and political issues, that it must be an essential maintenance in some basic issues, and many of them are policies, environmental policies, economic policies, food, but also an essential element in the economics of subsidies, aid, the encouragement of those tasks that we were commenting on so basic and so essential for our lives. On the other day, on the 14th of May, we raised a constructive question to the Councilwoman. A question that sought to be collaborative too, and seeks it with the Basque Government, because we are at a very complicated time, a critical moment, also in relation to the negotiations of the Spanish strategic plan, of the future CAP, which is already the CAP post 2020, but which has to materialize later in the common agricultural policy in 2023, and all logically now are taking many institutional steps, in the last with clamorous disagreements regarding the Council, the Commission, the European Parliament... But here too we must work much more closely, and the Ministry of Agriculture must, of course, do so with the autonomous communities, something that is somewhat lacking. This spokesman does not say this, but here are also the statements of producer organisations and political parties, of course, but also of the autonomous communities, missing a greater proximity, a greater knowledge, and that comes, of course, in our initiative and also in some of the reflections made by the amendments of the whole presented to us, in relation to the need to know more and to be more involved in that negotiation. Spain – and in that sense, Euskadi, where we are integrated as a state – cannot, and in this negotiation, moreover, cannot lose the new CAP to be developed from 2023, and neither in the transitional period can we lose, cannot lose farmers, which is a feeling that at the moment exists and has been denounced by professional organizations, by the organizations of the sector, that there is a risk of losing, losing resources and going backwards, because there are many issues that are implemented, but not resources that simply... It seems that a lot of money is going to be lost and that is the issue, that concern, that other threat that hangs over agricultural policies, livestock policies, the new formulas raised and not yet agreed upon. From our group, from the People-Citizens Group, we claim the strategic nature of the Basque agri-food sector, the Spanish agri-food sector and its contribution to the economy, more than 11% of the national gross domestic product and more than 2 and a half million jobs generated, and here now what we have to do is a global approach, also because it is not going to be sectoralised or by autonomous communities; it is a strong approach in relation to our possibilities and against the need for negotiation. The effort of this sector and of all workers allowed the activity to continue, in addition to the most difficult times during the crisis of 2008-2012. As a result, today agri-food exports account for 17.7% of the national economy as a whole, thus helping to create wealth throughout the country, here too, and in rural areas, to combat depopulation, including to strengthen the image of our products in international markets, such as products, such as a country, such as an attractive state, for the quality of food products, the safety of food products and the high value of our gastronomy, including this issue. But the basics are work, effort, modernization, etc., etc., which has also been developed in times of crisis. This strategic value has been made even more visible by the crucial role played by all the links in the food chain to ensure food supply and autonomy during the crisis of COVID-19. We've all seen it, how that whole sector worked out, the whole sector, everything as a whole, and that's there. Without them, without the commitment of that generosity, also of that professionalism, of farmers, farmers, fishermen, and in the central role of industry, distribution, we would have faced, in addition to a health and economic crisis, a major supply crisis. And that didn't happen. I want to say that we have a sector that must be defended, that must be preserved, and that must be modernised as well, and improved. It is in these keys where the CAP, where the common agricultural policy, is the main instrument that the European Union has been endowed with to ensure this food autonomy. And that is why we, from the People's GroupCitizens in this case, are committed to safeguarding it and to ensuring that any model change is accompanied by the necessary studies of economic, social and environmental impact, and that every change that is introduced to ensure and achieve a balanced CAP helps, precisely, that stability, modernity and progress of our agri-food sector. It is something he has to do, in this case, Spain, which has to do the ministry, but he has to do it in common with the autonomous communities. And that is an essential element that you have to do, and that you have to do it now, because the deadlines run very fast. Even the Government of Spain does not tell us what it will definitely be... the impact of the CAP. No data yet. The Basque Government itself has acknowledged that the talks are still there, that they have been insufficient, and that even approaches that have been made do not see them. But that's maturing now, and it has to be certified, somehow. And that's why I think those are the elements to be valued. And that's why we did that interpellation and we did that motion, to worry about and to say what are the elements that, at the moment, are on the table and that need to be put into value. That is why we present the inquiry. And, knowing the state of affairs, we have tabled this motion, with these 20 points, which affect certain issues for the future of our agriculture. There are more crops that must be subsidized, in the theoretical approach and in the current approach, by the commitment of the ministry to certain sectors... more subsidized crops. There are more hectares. There are more demands, because there are all the demands of ecosystems, environmental demands. And yet there are no more resources, and that is the fundamental element of this whole political moment, in relation to the future CAP, which concerns us. And that concerns the sector, of course, in a hell of a way, because no answers are given yet in relation to what happens if there are many more demands, if there are many more needs and there are no more resources or those resources are not guaranteed... That is the fundamental element. And that is the concern in the sector and in the main agricultural and livestock organisations, which have, of course, already been very clearly positioned. All we need to do is read the interesting information sent to us by professional organizations in the Basque region or in Spain as a whole, in relation to this situation, with great concern. And that's what you have to answer to. We wanted, in our initiative, in our motion, to urge the Basque Government to highlight the relationship that Mrs Tapia's department has with the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, within the framework of the CAP, in addition to post 2020 and within the framework of the strategic plan, and to highlight a number of issues, which, since our political formation, we consider relevant and important. And, in that sense, one of the fundamental elements is what I have been saying. It is committed the specific funds for the CAP in the period 2021-2027, always above the period 2014 and 2020. And, where appropriate, increase them proportionately if new expenditure requirements arise from the negotiation. And new spending requirements are going to arise, that is to say, we will have to increase, of course, and assume from the Government the increase in the co-financing that the autonomous communities must provide. That is a general element. Then it is clear that we have our specificities. But that is in relation to what it has to be like to defend from here to commit more funds in the future CAP. And that must be done... that must, of course, defend the ministry. We understand that rigour and transparency must also be applied in the design of the future national strategic plan. It's a basic thing. It also misses more information. And that is why even the Government's amendment talks about anticipating information so that we can work on the various bodies, sectoral conferences, etc., that are coming together. And, logically, that is the fundamental element. More rigour, more knowledge, more information, more transparency... We are also talking about making access to other funds compatible, to enable the sector to access funds from the National Reconstruction and Resilience Programme within the European Union's Next Generation, and to those European funds envisaged, to meet the requirements of promotion, digital transformation, competitiveness, ecological transition, to facilitate the fight against climate change... to reconcile and do so also as something, we have no doubt, that the Basque Government will also have to include in its approach. To define a concept of genuine farmer linked to production and agricultural activity. This is something that everyone is talking about, not only the political parties, but the sector, and the governments, the agricultural departments of the different autonomous communities, which defend a concept of genuine farmer linked to production and agricultural activity, dedicated to the production of food with market orientation... Support small farmers, producers and their role in maintaining economic activity in rural areas, and combating depopulation. That is the fundamental element. And there it is. Of course, the role of women in clear policies in the sector needs to be supported and encouraged. To facilitate, of course, with the CAP measures, young people's access to this agricultural activity, and the progress of this professionalisation in which progress is being made. And precisely that is the fundamental element: to make the sector attractive, to incorporate the sector; to ensure stability, to ensure permanent innovation is also part of those other objectives, not only those of the food chain and agricultural production, but also of depopulation, demography, etc., etc. Of course, co-operativeism could not be lacking. It is an essential element within what we are talking about and within the policies that need to be incorporated, to support co-operativeism as one of the best mechanisms to optimize farm production costs and to strengthen cooperatives and the sector; to promote agricultural and food training at all professional levels; to provide permanent advice from the institutions, which is fundamental; to promote agri-food research; to ensure the stability of farmers' incomes and, consequently, food sufficiency, designing a sufficiently well-equipped crisis reserve, promoting effective risk management tools, etc., etc. To ensure the future of all actors in the food system, too, must be part of and be the cornerstone of all these agreements. Ensuring that all these basic agents of the food system are safe at work, I believe it is a fundamental element. And by improving the mechanisms that provide security in the functioning of markets; we have no doubt. To promote, with the CAP mechanisms, a better functioning of the food supply chain, as one of the elements that we also propose and develop to a greater extent. To promote an immediate reform of the digitisation and connectivity of the rural environment that will allow farmers... Indeed, all this is going to cost – cost, isn't it? – and it is going to need more resources, than is currently not available. And we need to see it and we need to clear that issue too, in order to boost that digitisation. We have no doubt that we must recognise and value the role that farmers and farmers have always played in protecting the environment and preventing climate change, ensuring that the percentage linked to so-called eco-schemes is always below 20%. It is quite clear that there is a great deal of concern at the moment. I say again: there are many more demands, many duties have been put on, but they are not accompanied by the necessary resources. That is why, in this regard, there are up to twenty initiatives and issues and the approaches or reflections that we have made in our motion. There they are. And thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u40	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Housevary, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u41	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Today we have to talk about the CAP. But I would like to start by talking about my childhood, not because I got up nostalgic today, but because I think it has to do with the reflection we bring on the subject. I grew up in a village in Zigoitia, very close to here, in a family farm for use, with cows, sheep, chickens, pigs, etc. My parents used to grow the grass, the cereal and the beet that fed our animals. They sold sheep's milk to the factory next door. And Goyo, the milkman, would buy us cow's milk every morning and sell it, house by house, in Vitoria. We knew the butcher who sold our lambs and calves because he bought them directly from us. That was from the farm to the table! But, in this bucolic scenario, a lot of work was done and little was gained. To somehow fight this situation, some subsidies began to arrive – and now I know they were the CAP – with a lot of conditions for a sector that had been humble but sovereign until then. Since then it's been raining a lot, and many of the country-houses have been lost. Those who survive have been obliged to grow up, and to invest, to invest, to invest, and to invest. They had to adapt each performance to the requirements of payment, so that they could re-enforce these scholarships to the necessary investments. The new ways of working, goods, pests, and seeds have been won. These systems have been connected with agriculture policy, which have come from the liberal policy of the right Governments which have been assigned to us, and have been of strategic plan, all in the name of progress. But even if I try to adapt it, I still have a lot of work to do and a very small profit. This year I've been in this Chamber, when I'm working on things that have something to do with the first sector, I feel like I'm on the groundhog day, but it's inevitable. For if we come to the heart of the matter, we find the only obstinate reality that is repeated in the first sector, if we examine the problems of each production. It has been reported in all our conversations, that in exchange for the products which agriculture and cattle produce, it pays less and less, that slow cost has been installed and that the prices agreed on are indispensable to change the law of the supply of manufactures. In order to divide the value which has been created through the chain of commercial policies, it would be necessary to grasp the measures of controlling the market. We have also accused that great nutrient companies are enriched by paying the prices of poverty. On the other hand, in a more and less agricultural policy, he only thinks of the margin. We have a clear illustration of the area of the rebellion which has recently been able to discuss the committee. During these decades, the subsidies given to the first sector, and the intensive patterns that matched their instructions, have not succeeded in improving the rentability of most of the commercial mines in the Basque Country. They are not able to guarantee illegal prices, or to value the conditions of people working in the first sector. On the other hand, in the climateal emergency context we now have, the emissions and inclosures of any sector are examined by glass. Thus, agriculture and blacking, always connected with the care of nature and the system, are no longer regarded as bearable, and these methods of production which have been established in many decades by borrowing are doubted. And the CAP marks the way back to the sector. Return, in many respects, is progress today. Return to extensive agriculture and livestock, crop rotation, beard, before... And they call it eco-schemes, like they made something up. The family exploitation model of the past is the one that is now being rewarded to regain the long-awaited and necessary sustainability. We have said this actively and passively; it has also been noted today: it is these farms that create wealth through their work, those that feed the population with healthy food, those that preserve traditional production methods and those that keep the population in rural areas. Family farming remains key to the preservation of the environment, biodiversity, animal welfare, and the fight against climate change. Now we want to reward this model, while for decades millions of small and medium-sized farms have been lost, precisely by European policies, by the liberation of markets, by the disappearance of quotas, by production rights... Only between 2013 and 2016 two million family farms were lost in the European Union. It's getting dizzy in the sector. The CAP is being painted in green to improve the image of the respective governments, without a coherent and serious approach, because the CAP intends to redesign a first sector that it has disfigured and perverted over the past 40 years, dragging the sector back, but without getting it to continue on its own. It is one of the sectors where more money is invested in R & D+i, but that investment does not result in business profitability either. It doesn't make them a solvent business. Those who resist are forced to grow to gain more rights. The land and resources of the sector are increasingly concentrated in fewer hands, of those receiving more and more subsidies. 20% of CAP beneficiaries continue to concentrate more than 80% of all aid. Currently, 52% of agricultural land in the European Union is controlled by only 3% of producers, and the 5 largest agri-food industries control half of the market. The sector is being ubiquitous, and so it is impossible to push the zero kilometre. Family farms have become invisible in the face of the large food industry. It's no longer grown; it's now made. There is nothing more to see than the macro-greenhouses that are going to be installed in Tuesta: a tomato factory kilometre zero. In this situation, we need our own strategic plan to adapt to the peculiarities of the area and develop our jurisdictions in this area. "Esunjok himself confesses: the sole plan, the sole plan of the State, does not allow the union of the agricultural politics to conform to the reality of Eucharistic structure and production. So, we want all of these technical and economic resources, all of them, to go mad. That's what we're asking for in our correction to today's motion. We ask him to set up the initiative required for the development of the local strategic plan, because the sector needs to be decided from the area that is best known in the future. Because it must be decided from here. The strategic plan that agrees with his powers, which will enable him to obtain a just and lasting sector of agriculture and economic resources in the Basque Autonomy in the Renaissance. In that way, my friend, as we ask him for the second point of our correction, co-ordinately co-ordinated with the forums, he can establish criteria and use the means as efficiently as possible. We want to assume our responsibility and decide, in accordance with our competences, what we need to do to make our first sector central and central to rural development, sustainability and a fair consumption model. We want to define, within the framework established in Europe, flexible instruments, such as the definition of a genuine farmer, which we always talk about as a genuine farmer – if we want women to come in, the first thing we have to start is to change the name: a genuine farmer. We want to decide on the number of eligible hectares, the types of cultivation, the eco-schemes... We want to take steps to promote the active participation of women, the access of young people, research, digitisation, the protection of the environment, as set out in the motion put to us by the People-Citizens Group. Yes, of course, but through full subsidiarity of the two pillars. It is the way to achieve a more just, efficient and simplified CAP, which reverses the achievement of a living, cohesive and future Basque agricultural sector. In addition, it is essential to discuss the model of the primary sector that we want in ten years' time, because its future depends on it. And we need to discuss it from here. We have the sector with artificial respirator, fed with serum. Let us think about what we must do to breathe and feed ourselves, so that it is self-sufficient. The CAP must be a mere instrument. Let's think about how to prevent it from being what, how, when and even when we're going to eat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u43	President, ladies and gentlemen. The new common agricultural policy to be developed from 2023 onwards is certainly one of the political tasks of the Government of Spain with the governments of the autonomous communities, of Spain with all the countries of the European Union, and also with the authorities of the European Union itself. Thus expressed, this already manifests an enormous complexity. The dialogue is therefore open. And although the agreement is supposed to be getting closer and closer, it is not yet at this date. The work, in turn, on Spain's strategic plan continues. The new CAP enters into force on 1 January 2023 and will end in 2027. The strategic plan must first be approved, as it is a necessary condition for the implementation of the CAP to be effective. The opportunity for the agreement in Europe will return on 28 and 29 this month in Luxembourg. At present, it can be considered that, after three years of negotiations, there are conditions for resolving and bringing certainty, stability and security to farmers and livestock farmers in need of the CAP. The European interest is that the future CAP should have a focus, in order to achieve concrete results linked to three objectives: the promotion of an intelligent, resilient and diversified agricultural sector that guarantees food security; the intensification of environmental care and climate action, helping to achieve the European Union's climate and environmental objectives; and the strengthening of the socio-economic fabric of rural areas. These general objectives are, in turn, broken down into nine specific objectives, complemented by a common cross-cutting objective. The economic bloc is concerned with ensuring fair incomes, increasing competitiveness and rebalancing the power of the food chain. The environmental bloc is intensifying action against climate change, environmental protection and conservation of landscape and biodiversity. The rural and social bloc aims to support generational empowerment, strengthen living rural areas and strengthen the quality of food and health. The strategic plan is already being worked out in Spain; it is based on a thorough analysis of the needs of the agricultural sector and the rural environment as a whole, linked to each of its objectives. It is developed in coordination with the Autonomous Communities and has as its main interlocutors agricultural professional organizations and environmental non-governmental organizations. It also works with the Ministry of Ecological Transition and the European Commission, and in addition all organizations and individuals can participate. The plan begins its work on the basis of the proposed CAP reform carried out by the European Commission, through a high-level working group coordinating the work of the specialised subgroups in each of the objectives. As negotiations between EU ministers and progress in the strategic plan in Spain are taking place these days, the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food has asked the European Commission to allow the payment of up to 70% of CAP direct aid and up to 85% of rural development aid to be anticipated from 16 October. This measure could lead to an advance of direct aid of around EUR 3,350 million to the more than 670,000 farmers and livestock farmers who requested it in the 2021 campaign. Advance payments would thus entail a significant injection of liquidity to farmers and livestock farmers in a year that has continued to be complicated for the entire sector, due to the situation arising from the COVID-19 pandemic. The procedures for carrying out the necessary administrative and on-the-spot checks have already been initiated to ensure that aid reaches farmers and farmers who meet all the conditions for its collection. At the request of Spain, the European Commission has already adopted a regulation which will reduce the on-the-spot checks organised under each aid scheme from 5% to 3% of cases in general. In addition, these controls can be carried out without the need for physical contact between the farmer and the controller, in order to comply with health recommendations. These measures will ensure that there is no delay in controls and that CAP aid is paid within the same time limits as every year. With all these measures relating to the single application, the control of such applications and the payment of advances, the Government seeks that all farmers and farmers in Spain can receive their CAP 2021 aid without problems and on the same dates as in previous campaigns. We are also working intensively on one of the main innovations of the new CAP, which are the eco-schemes. This is a catalogue of voluntary practices aimed at increasing the sustainability of farms in such important areas as soil protection, increasing their capacity as a carbon sink, preserving biodiversity or reducing emissions. On the basis of the agreement of the Council of Ministers of the European Union of October 2020, Member States should allocate at least 20% of direct payments for this purpose. In the latter respect, it must be borne in mind that the trilateral negotiations between the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament have not yet been concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, we share the political interest in participating in the debate on the future of the CAP, and that is why we think Mr Barrio's initiative is right. We do have some more difference about what the content of it is or what the content of it should be. It presents us with a battery of commitments to which we cannot respond from here, because some of the results that it points out will depend on the negotiations and agreements between the parties, and not on a rigid and almost closed positioning as it proposes. Hence our complete amendment, with guidelines on the central aspects currently under discussion in relation to the future of the CAP and the strategic plan to allow access to it: Issues such as establishing socio-economic regions, knowing that the current ones must be reduced to European convergence, and they must also be greatly reduced – this is one of the great new ones that the CAP has. We are also talking about the characteristics of eco-schemes, which, in order to be able to receive aid and certain percentages, also need to be developed according to the possibilities and capacities. And, therefore, this is also a great element of change. We're talking about the results for coupled payments, the definition of the genuine farmer... We all know that the CAP has been working on inertias that no longer correspond to a certain reality, and that is to be ordered and demanded by the European Union. And, therefore, there is also a great offer-proposal for change. We are talking about the application of effective capping, the allocation of EAFRD funds, the negotiation relations between the ministry and the Basque institutions. Finally, we have tried to position an amendment of the whole that goes very far, and that Parliament commits it to some of the central issues of what the CAP reform has to be, because it is a new CAP, with demands in addition to the European Union and in a very different political and economic context, because we must not forget that, from the old CAP to this, there is a substantial difference, which is the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union. The United Kingdom – I remember – was a net payer when it came to providing resources to the CAP, and that at the moment it is no longer, and that is why, in its day, the European Union was already pointing to the possibility that what was not possible to finance from the European Union, there the Member States with their commitments. Therefore, we are faced with new circumstances and we are faced with new changes, we are faced with much greater and more effective demands for action and control, aimed at the effectiveness of these aids, aimed at those who are really committed and produced within the agricultural sector. And, in that sense, the whole amendment that we have tabled – let us say – sets our commitments or focuses on those most important aspects. Well, this is the intervention. [And, simply, as a recommendation for the operation of the House, aside from the matter, I would say that this atrium should be cleaned up with something else, because some parliamentarian is going to get stuck and someone is going to be needed to let him go. The truth that is sticky until more can not].
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u44	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mr. Suso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good morning. Mr Barrio recalled a moment ago the situation that is happening right now somewhere in the lavish countryside. Indeed, in the Rioja Alavesa they are suffering important damage from water and rock. Yesterday, too, on the Alavesa Mountain, we received 80 liters of water in just an hour; in my own garden too, which is not very important, because, really, what matters is the farms of farmers and farmers, and also with stone. With regard to the motion that you tabled, in principle, which comes, as you have said, from an inquiry to the Councilwoman for Economic Development, Sustainability and the Environment in the plenary session of 14 May, I would have many points that could support them, but I think that in some way we would distort the debate that – I think – is important today, which we are having, and that it is no more than what the new CAP, the new Community agricultural policy, is going to be, which will be implemented from 2023 on, and I am therefore going to focus on my intervention in this area. Before, I would like to make a small history of the common agricultural policy. The common agricultural policy was established in 1962 by the six Member States which at that time made up the European Union, that is, which is, it is almost 60 years old: it will meet them next year. It was for many years the only agricultural policy that the European Union had, and indeed, it even took 80% of the Community budget. At that time, Community policy was based on self-sufficiency of the population of the Member States; at that time, no more than 70% of the food needed to feed the population was produced. We came from a Second World War, which had left the population very decimated and, therefore, was also an important element. The professionalization of the sector, together with innovation, agri-food research and the change of eating habits also took us in a few years to overtake 130... production exceeding 130 % of food requirements. By the 1980s, agricultural expenditure had been triggered by the cost of surpluses. The application of intervention measures and export aid to remove Community surpluses made the measures very expensive to maintain the CAP. In addition, they produced a distortion of the international market and caused many losses to the poorest producing countries that produced agricultural food preferentially. This is why the first major reform of Community agricultural policy came in 1992. It should be remembered that in 1986 the Spanish State joined the European Union, and in addition, in the case of agriculture, there was a transitional period of six years until 1992. That is to say, we have come to reform practically without having known the broad lines of Community agricultural policy and not the best budgets either. It was the first major reform of the CAP, and the beginning of the transition between production and aid could be highlighted as major changes. Aid linked to farmers' incomes paid per hectare and livestock heads, and the establishment of measures for the improvement of agricultural structures. At that time, in 1992, conditions were negotiated for our farming and livestock, from Euskadi, which still today allow us to benefit from that limit that was then achieved. The CAP had a new amendment in 1999, which already established income aid, and again in 2003 there was another amendment, where the single payment was incorporated, and already in 2013 what we now know was incorporated, which sought to achieve a better orientation of aid to active farmers – but it has not – together with a more prominent role for environmental aspects, which is called greening and, in some way, to promote a more sustainable and environmental CAP. The reform also included the possibility of granting aid to the most vulnerable sectors by co-financing the measures by the Member States, and so in Euskadi we were able to incorporate aid into the beet sector, which has been discussed a while ago, including suckler cows, milk cows, sheep or sunflowers and oilseeds. These aids are currently in force. It also incorporated what is called the first pillar and second pillar of EAFRD aid. In this new period beginning in 2023, it is again intended to make changes in the aid model, following a little along the same lines as in the last ones, which I would summarise in a single sentence: less aid with more obligations and conditions. Today, the European Union allocates 30% of its budget to the CAP – I said earlier that it went to 80%. These are large budget amounts. To put it down, it is 378 billion that will be allocated from 2021 to 2027, and in the next reform of the CAP 47 billion to the Spanish state. But they are gradually shrinking [aid] over the course of the various reforms. In fact, 1.97 have already been reduced this year, which will affect the most vulnerable farms. A reduction is also planned for 2022, which means that, if there is less budget, there will be less aid, unless, for some farms, we orientate it differently. Today we should already know – Mr Barrio said – the final design of the CAP 2023-2027. The European Union should have completed all its negotiations by now. But we have also known that there has been no agreement. The Basque Parliament rejected the committee's proposal. And, therefore, the strategic plan could not be approved, which, moreover, will only be possible one in each State. The green policy that is to be implemented and the so-called eco-schemes are the battle horse, it seems, to reach an agreement. It is also true, as the adviser said at the 14th or 14th of May appearances, that there have been meetings with the ministry and the autonomous communities for months, and also, from a technical point of view, that are also happening. We already know that there is going to be a strategic plan, both for the first pillar and for the second pillar, for each of the states, because this has been determined by Brussels, which also continues with its model of centralitis which is so fashionable in recent times. Also, although there will be a single strategic plan for the second pillar, it is expected to incorporate its specific measures from the autonomous communities. For the Basque agri-food sector it is transcendental, which is finally achieved in the negotiation and the measures that are finally incorporated. We all agree on that. Entering into the measures themselves, there are currently 52 productive areas in the state, and they are going to be reduced, apparently, to 18. At the moment, there are nine in Euskadi, and it seems that it is intended to reduce to seven: two of drought, two of permanent crops and three of pastures. In this regard, first of all, we propose to establish common socio-economic regions for the purposes of convergence of basic payment entitlements, following the example to be set, for example, in the Balearic Islands, which the Ministry is doing so, and to consider Euskadi as its own socio-economic region, with the three territories, Araba, Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia, but respecting the exchange of rights available in Euskadi on 1 January 2022, as well as the economic amount linked to these rights. Secondly, the definition of a genuine farmer is going to be another important pillar, because there are important changes in this area. And we understand that priority agricultural holdings, the owner of which, the holder of the holding, is professional and pays for agricultural social security, should be the most benefit from the aid, ultimately supporting Basque family farming, in the face of agricultural enterprises, brands or countess, which have large areas and which take a large part of the money. We are also concerned about the so-called eco-schemes, within the model of green agriculture that is being promoted by the European Parliament, which is intended to reach 30% of the aid to be received. We believe that the so-called eco-schemes should be available to all genuine farmers in Euskadi, with easy management and monitoring, and that they can maintain the competitiveness of Basque farms and do not exceed 20% of the aid to be received per farm. Finally, not the last, Euskadi is the community that devotes most of its own funding to coupled payments. We understand that there has to be an increase in the amount allocated to coupled payments for the most important sectors in our community, such as beet, milk and sheep, also suckler cows and, in some way, proteinous and oily cows. And, within this same line, apply the so-called capping cash, which is the same as the limitation of operating aid, from an amount of aid of 60,000 hectares per holding per year, and apply the distribution of the funds resulting from the redistributive payment for smaller holdings. Finally, with regard to the second pillar, which is also very important, to allow for the design of Euskadi's interventions, in line with the strategic needs of our agri-food sector, and to allocate EAFRD funds for the period 2021-2027 to Euskadi, taking into account its level and capacity for implementation during the current period. All this, from the work shared with the ministry, that allows our institutions to fix their position as appropriate as possible to the defense of the farmers and herders of Euskadi in the face of the new reform.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u46	Thank you, Mr. Suso. Passing on the line of uncorrected teams, Mistto, Mrs Martínez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u47	Thank you, Madam President. We know, it is well known to all, that livestock and agriculture are a fundamental pillar in the Basque economy. Since Vox, we have always been at the side of farmers and farmers, of our countryside, of our rural world, one of the great values of our region and also of the rest of Spain. And today it couldn't be any other way. We live, that is the reality, in the cynicism and hypocrisy of globalism, which, on the one hand, asks us to encourage and increase aid to our field, but then, because of naive ecology, they sanction and condemn ruin to our field. Europe must focus. You must understand that, with unfair competition and the misunderstanding of green politics, our primary sector is doomed. The basic principles underlying the CAP are not met: Community preference, market unity, and the defence of farmers and consumers. If we want people to shine again, if we want that land back, not only good intentions and subsidies, but we must also make life there profitable. In this sense, in Mr Barrio's motion, in Vox we miss a more specific and specific mention for a key sector in our region, and on which many families depend, such as extensive livestock farming. We understand that only from a firm position in defense of livestock and agriculture can we stop this phenomenon so hard and negative for our land, which is the rural exodus. In any case, Vox will vote yes to the motion, because it also addresses important issues on which we cannot stand against. In Vox we believe that this is the way, the way of the real recovery of our strength. There is no rural world and an urban world; that is an artificial separation, because the two environments are part of the same territory that is Spain, and the one without the other could never function. For this reason, farmers and farmers have the right to earn a decent living, and we have an obligation to help them with all the means at our disposal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u48	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u49	Good morning. Mr Barrio, I must tell you that, well, we think the initiative is right and important. It seems to us that the concern about the field and the nature and conservation of the environment raised by your initiative is correct. In any case, I must say that we also find it quite hypocritical, and hypocritical, why?, basically because coming from a political formation that only advocates free trade treaties, that defends the most savage capitalism to the extreme, and that in turn, at times, members of your party deny even the very existence of climate change, I say, seems somewhat ironic to us; it seems ironic to us that they propose solutions to problems that you have created. Solutions, of course, of a liberal nature. You who have embraced, to its last consequences, wild free trade policies, who have signed and continue to sign free trade agreements with Mercosur, USA, Canada, without conditionalities, without any conditionality, now intend to apply aid to keep the wheel in motion. You defend free trade treaties that have fostered unfair competition in prices, with countries with lower wage costs and lower environmental restrictions. A free market that has allowed large distributors and food chains to push down the prices of our farmers' and farmers' products, which are currently endangering their economy, their way of life and their lands, and ends up encouraging the depopulation of these peoples. You are not going to Europe to vote free trade treaties that include some kind of tariff or tariff on products from third countries that have not internalised wage or environmental costs. No, no, Instead, you continue to allow free trade and dysfunction caused by your policies, balancing them at the cost of providing aid with public money, with money from all and from all, money which, by the way, is increasingly scarce, precisely because of the liberal policies that you apply in relation to tax cuts and also to disinvestment in public sectors, in order to privatise them. Then, with regard to the costs for farmers related to meeting the requirements of the European Green Pact or the eco-schemes or environmental conditionalities of the CAP, you advocate once again giving aid to comply with the law, that is, those limits that will be set to receive direct aid from the CAP and what that implies to farmers and livestock farmers, you intend to compensate for it, or, if necessary, in the negotiation process, to limit the percentages. They are concerned about the loss of purchasing power on the part of farmers and farmers, but they are not concerned, under any circumstances, about what I mentioned a few moments ago in relation to priced products which are applied on the basis of the free trade agreements which you yourselves support. In its point 12, they point out the improvement in the functioning of the food supply chain, which, basically – and we have already talked about it here more than once – what should be done is that existing legislation should be applied and that there should be no loss sales, because, despite being prohibited, they continue to be carried out. On the other hand, we are glad that on one of the points, on the 20th, he mentions precisely what he was talking about, and that is that they come to say, intercommissioned, that there must be greater border control and avoid the dispersion and damage of the single market to European products by unfair competition from third-country producers; but, in turn, recognizing the dysfunctions that all this entails, I say, continuing to rely on free trade treaties without any form of conditionality. We believe that farmers, farmers and farmers in our country have a right to know who is causing the problems and who is making their sector more and more affected and at risk. I would like to tell you that there are certain sections of your initiative which seem reasonable to us, such as those which may be referring to promoting the participation of women and young people in the sector, to supporting co-operativeism and training and agricultural research, including what has been mentioned in connection with the definition of the genuine farmer, but I say to you that, in broad terms and on the grounds that it is ironic and hypocritical that you propose such an initiative and because we really believe that the substance of the question and the problem concerning Europe and farmers and farmers has a greater connotation than the answer given from the CAP... But we believe that it also has to do with its position on free trade treaties. And with regard to the amendment put forward by the parliamentary groups supporting the Government, we do believe that this is a much more pragmatic proposal, which calls for resolving certain doubts about the implementation of the CAP and the aid in Euskadi. It is true that we miss, again, what I was explaining right now, that it is a reflection on the responsibility of the signing of the free trade treaties. But in any case, we do feel that the references to clarify the procedures for direct and indirect payments, simplify the management and control of eco-schemes, or limit by capping the maximum amount to be received by each farmer, in order to be able to distribute these funds to smaller farms, as well as we believe it is right to urge the State Government and the Ministry of Agriculture to report on the changes to the new CAP reform and to allocate appropriate ERDF funds to help the primary sector on this reform. But, again, I insist that we believe that reflection on how European policy affects this particular sector of agriculture, livestock and farming also needs to have a broader look. And in this case, as far as the treatment of free trade treaties is concerned, we believe that this issue has not been addressed and should have been raised. And that, in any case, the initiative put forward by the proposing group, to the extent – I say – that it insists on maintaining this policy of free trade treaties and on compensating for this reality with the direct aid resulting from the CAP, and that, moreover, now the conditionalities applied by the environmental CAP, these compensate them, in turn, with other aid, we believe that it is not a correct policy: that it continues to affect the public support of the conditionalities applied from the general interest, in this case from the administrations. And, in that regard, we will vote against the original initiative, and, if necessary, we will abstain from the amendment put forward by the proposing groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u50	Thank you, Mr. Soto. The answer's next, Mr Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u51	Thank you, President. [Mr. Prieto is right: this, you stick one here; you stick to it]. Thank you very much... Look, Mr. Soto, you see that you've come from the Congress of Podemos, and you've come powerful, haven't you? And here you have to say the mantras, the questions. I couldn't spend a full Thursday without talking about privatisers, ultra-liberals... Anyway... I don't think that's where things go. In the end, you have also recognized that within the motion there are issues that you like and that you like, and that you share, right? I mean, that's, curiously, that's it, isn't it? I think things have to be shown. And we, the truth that I have the honour of belonging to a political group and a political family that has been a key player in major economic, social developments, in the CAP, in Europe. That is, you have also supported other initiatives that you do not share: international treaties or free trade treaties, or other issues that have also developed for us, although you see it differently, but we have been protagonists, haven't we? What we're trying to do now is keep getting better, and keep doing things right. And that, that can't be removed like that, from a pen, as you've tried to do. Your criticism is easy: a little demagogic, a little mild, well, ultra-liberal, privatisers... It's good for health, it's good for industry, it's good for trade policy, it's good for everything. Now for agriculture and also livestock. If that's the argument, it's the same as... Just like you, as a member of an opposition party, the same thing happens is that I stepped on your initiative, right?, and I brought it, instead of you. That's what's bugging him, too, and he doesn't want me to get in the middle of anything. But anyway, there are the questions, aren't there? And that is what we are defending as a parliamentary group, and that is what we wanted to deal with in this way, as I said the other day to Mrs Tapia, and today to the collaborative political groups, and to try to influence what has to be an open negotiation process, which we know little about, but where the autonomous communities also have to be essential, right? And that's what we want to employ ourselves in. Look, Mrs Etxebarria has also put forward a number of arguments that affect support, in which the sector must continue to be supported. It has also made an impact on some other issues, historical and of necessity, and some criticisms, some issues... What we wanted with our motion is precisely that: to support, strengthen, institutions, through concrete measures in relation to what the future of the sector has to be. And, of course, criticizing or seeing, or rejecting or revealing, some problems, such as the threat of fewer resources for more politics, right? And that's what we wanted to put on the table. You and your initiative... I am grateful for all the amendments that have been made. The truth is that, in 24 hours, in order to be able to weave, on a question as complex as this, and with the complexity of things, an agreement, an attempt to compromise, is complicated. What I wanted, more than anything, was to bring the debate, and to highlight the need for this Parliament to be concerned about this very important European policy, but which affects us so intimately. And that's what I've been trying to do, isn't it? We have asked for a separate vote – if I may – on some point in your entire amendment. But Mrs Etxebarria's whole amendment is on the other hand. Sure, it's a little impossible right now, isn't it? The strategy is the strategy. The one we've been told to be, the one that has to be. It could have been conceived differently in this negotiating process, but it has been so: States have to make their strategic plan. And Spain has its own. What is happening and what we wanted is for Spain to make the best strategic plan and for the autonomous communities to be present there. And let them be informed. And have elements of judgment. And that they can affect, right? And that they can move some of the issues that we have wanted to bring to this House. Mr Suso also referred to the lack of agreement in the European Parliament, the Commission, the Council, i.e. there is an element and a complication. And also in relation to the lack of agreement that has existed with the professional sector, with the regulations that develop the moments... The 20s and 21s, this moment of transition, there are farmers and there are farmers' organisations who have said that it is difficult to be greener when the numbers are getting redder. I mean, that was said by a representative of a professional organization, and he's right. There are more demands, there are more demands! And on this issue of eco-schemes, that issue of environmental policies, it is quite clear that a certain amount of... for which farmers and livestock farmers are perfectly prepared, so that more resources are needed, and there are no resources at this time. And those are the issues. A major report by the European Economic and Social Committee also mentioned that the CAP has been very important, but has not been enough for the territorial development of rural areas. Sufficient, that is, even more efforts are needed to address the economic, environmental and social challenges facing rural areas and employment. I mean, what we wanted to bring is that, that from the autonomous communities you work with strength and strength...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u52	Please finish...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u53	... in relation to making the best CAP, because we play a lot for many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u54	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. The representative of the EH Group, madam, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u55	Thank you, ma'am. It seems to me that today's debate gives rise to a great deal of concern, especially about the CAP, the budget, the growing demands; and it is understandable, it seems to me that it is understandable. It is understandable because it is important for the sector, but I believe that, in any case, in our opinion, what we should be concerned about, rather than the above, is how to ensure that fair prices are paid throughout the primary sector, above production costs for all products. I think that would make us a little less dependent on the CAP, for starters, among other things. Mr Barrio comments that the single strategic plan resulting from the European negotiation is a reality, but I would like to point out that there are ways and means of making that strategic plan, that is the subsidiarity that can be granted to the autonomous communities and that it is about respecting realities and competences. So, just that. I'd like to explain the meaning of our vote on the second round. As I have already shown, the plan of our correction is different from that of the attitude which appears in the motive. Our plan is to run the Euscal Autonomia Estargo and the future. In Europe there have been debates, and agreements are obvious; the ends and measures which defend the rights and left hands, and in the state every community has its own interests, and stakes according to them. We ought, therefore, to make use of our jurisdictions for a standard of our own. A group of populars-Ciudadanos asks the General to defend certain criteria in front of the Ministry of State Government, and he does not question the only central planning which is established from Europe and the strategic plan of state-wide affairs; he does not even mention subsidy. We, as we have said, do not agree with that frame; the only strategic plan of state affairs is not fit to satisfy the wants of the sector here; it is not enough. However, as the points he receives are fairly general, and we may agree with some of them, we shall tend to abstain. On the other hand, in the case of team corrections supported by the government, we have missed the proclamation of a special strategic plan. We think we must be brave, we can't give up. We plan on other things in Madrid, why not with this? In November, Podemos-Edemus-Azeke registered in the correction of another proposal, to AKY, to the Ministry of Farm Farms, to begin a part of the process with agricultural organizations and representatives, and to design and make a special plan for the reform of an agricultural policy. But this time there's no mention of it, and the demands, instead of laughing, are made to the State Government. We do not know whether the proclamation has been lost or what has happened to us on the way, but we make mention of it in our correction, and do not approach us in the middle way; The problem is, in this case, the frame, because we can agree with the demands that are made, but they're from here, as we're saying over and over. It's clear that this correction will go on, so we hope that when you take those demands to Madrid, you can defend your rights properly. As we demand in our correction, these rights are used, to use the technical and economical resources that belong to the united agriculture policies, and to make the first of the Esunomical Sectors just and bearable. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u57	President. Mr Barrio, also assisted by the speeches that have been made here, raises a question which I think is very substantive and to which it would be good if we also devoted some time, but with some sincerity in the debate. Mr Barrio said: "We want to make the best CAP and the best strategic plan." Mr Barrio said: "We do not want any farmer to lose; we want at least to have the previous funding and even to improve it." It is inevitable that, if we express ourselves in those terms, let us talk about what institutional administration is like, what it should be like. And it is essential that we talk about fiscal policy, because everything is impossible at the same time. It is impossible for a European Union which has a very relevant member less, which paid and paid a lot, with the same budget, to be able to grant more aid. So we have two ways: we have the way to make more European Union or less European Union. We want to provide the European Union with more budgets so that the main political expenditure, which is this, has more resources, or we want to keep it in a scenario as it is at the moment and, therefore, what we want is to allocate more resources from the Spanish Government or from the autonomous governments to help the agricultural sector. All right. And, in that case, we are willing to a certain amount of taxation also at the level of Spain or at the level of the autonomous communities to increase resources. Because, of course, its policy is: in the case of agriculture, more resources; but in the case of fiscal policy, less taxes. All at once, he knows it's impossible. You can keep it in a speech, but you can't keep it in a reality. And, therefore, this is absolutely a matter of substance. And, in addition, there is one element that should not be charged with false expectations, even demagogic expectations. The new CAP is a CAP that wants major changes, because at the moment there are great challenges and great commitments. And green commitment is a green commitment. And it is a fundamental, strategic, future, green commitment that is very important for the whole of the European Union. It will be possible to make nice phrases between the green and the red, but the reality is that the new CAP points out that the environment must be preserved in an extraordinary way. And this, of course, falls on the person who works the field. It's not just about who works in the field, but it's about who works in the field. This is a reality, which we have to face. And that is therefore going to bring about certain changes, and it is not going to generate 100% satisfaction between the sector. For example, the CAP wants to define, and the strategic plan wants to define clearly who the farmer is and who the farmer is. Because you know that because of inertia, because of inertia of the years, I would say decades, through the CAP there are those who charge for grazing pastures and it turns out that they have bait cattle; there are those who charge because he is a productive farmer and it turns out that he has the land in beard; there are those who charge because he has accredited a cattle, which, if you go looking for it, is no longer there. Of course, all this has to be ordered. And this is an evil of times and times, uh, that resorts to governments and governments, ideologies and ideologies. It is not a problem of the present Government or only of the present Government. It is, too, but not only because we have political demands from Europe, which we have to resolve. There are those who claim that they can have aid on the basis of a geographical area, because it must be that the geographical area gives a plus, that belonging to a region necessarily has to give a plus. And it is being considered that what is grouped are homogeneous products, are homogeneous crops, are homogeneous productions, and not, simply or fundamentally, a geographical issue. Of course, all that has come to be incorporated. And more and more, in these types of European policies, those demands, which make us much more modern, which make us more effective, more committed to the environment, more committed to a future of a more sustainable and better planet, also affect us. And we have to answer that. And it's not worth, simply, making the demagogic posture, that I don't say it specifically for anyone, uh, but it's not worth with the sometimes demagogic posture in the speeches of wanting to embrace the farmer and the farmer, saying, "Here I am." Here I am, who support you unconditionally. That's not politics.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u58	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians. Mr. Suso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u59	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I am very pleased that there is talk of agricultural policy in Parliament. You don't talk much. Much more has been said in other times. And that's why I think bringing up debates of this kind is fine. Today I believe that the motion brought by the People's Party, which came from an inquiry on 14 May, spoke of the CAP. And I have therefore focused my previous intervention on talking about the CAP. And I've made some history, and now I'll explain why. Indeed, the model, the frame, we may not like it. But at the moment that is what we have; that is what will be approved in Brussels in a few days' time. And I want this Parliament, if possible, to move those who are going to design the state's strategic plan, in collaboration with the autonomous communities, what are the thoughts of this Parliament. I think it's very important. And, in fact, the framework may not be the one I like best and the model may not be the one. But, as they said in my village before, with these oxen we have to plough. And, therefore, that's what we have. And about what we have, which we're not going to change, or we're not going to change substantially, if I may, is where we want or have practically to focus our shot. And, in that sense, I therefore believe that the proposals that we are making are the most important ones, in view of the change that is coming. They're not the only ones. There may be more. I too miss a different model of CAP negotiation. A different model which takes account of the Europe of the regions. Nor does the European Union itself have them. I believe that the principle of subsidiarity should also be in the negotiation of Community agricultural policy within the state. He's not here. The European Union has said that there is only one strategic plan and, indeed, it is not the model I like best; but, in that sense, I have – let us say – to collaborate in making that strategic plan the best for our Basque farmers and farmers. Among the proposals we have made, there are also differences with the proposals made by the ministry. We understand that the genuine farmer is one who has to have more than 40% of income from farming and, in addition, has to be a professional farmer and has to pay agricultural social security. I don't think this percentage level will be achieved, but we're going to work to make it that way. We also believe that ecosystems – eco-schemes, sorry – do not have to be something that is compensated for doing something, but rather that they are encouraged to do that, that is, that from the farms themselves these kinds of tasks are carried out because they are really encouraged and not compensated for, because if we compensate we would be talking not about eco-schemes, but we would be talking about environmental measures that already exist at the moment. But there is one issue that worries me very much too: what is going to happen with all the surface that currently does not have rights of collection, although it is declared of vineyard, pasture, fruit and vegetables... We in Euskadi do not have any such surface; we charge for what we have and we do not have any other surface that is declared but does not charge. In this sense, this percentage can account for 14 or 15% of all the total rights of the state, of all. If these duties that have not been incorporated into the payment areas at any time are currently incorporated, it may result in a significant reduction in the amount each farmer receives for the corresponding duties. And, in that sense, I do worry, and I worry about two reasons: for the decrease itself and because soon we will have elections, not in Euskadi; we will have elections in Andalusia, where there are more hectares of this type, hectares that are declared but that do not charge. And this is a good thing to be able to incorporate it into an electoral debate in an autonomous community and get part of those hectares to be incorporated into the payments and, therefore, reduce the number of income our Basque farmers and farmers receive. Therefore, I hope that we will continue to maintain the model that has been developing so far. The previous CAP reform plans have not been incorporated, particularly in the last one, and I hope that they will not be implemented in the coming months, before the state strategic plan is closed and we can continue to maintain the level of aid to the Basque agricultural sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u60	Thank you, Mr. Suso. Mist must not speak. Not even Podemus together. [[Pause]] After discussion, we'll put the original text of Mr. Barrio Baroja's motion to the vote. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the conferences 75; 42; the supporters 7; the opponents 47; the abstations 21; white ones; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u61	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the entire EH Collect Group correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 75; 42; the supporters are 21; the opponents are 48; the abstations are 6; white ones; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u62	So it's not accepted. And finally, we vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociialists of Basque Sociialists in full file. No points requested. I guess there's no problem. How?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u63	The 5 on the one hand, the 7 on the other, and the others, together.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u64	So we vote one, two, three, four, and six. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 75; the given votes, 42; the supporters, 41; the contrary is 0; abscession 34; 34; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u65	So it's accepted. We'll vote for the fifth point next. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; 75; 41; the opponents of the court; the contrary six; the abscesssions, 28; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u66	So the fifth point has been accepted. And finally, we vote for the seventh point. You can vote. After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; votes given, 65; supporters 48; the contrary is 0, 27; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-17.u67	So the seventh point has also been accepted. After this the President of the legislature made a statement with the statement of the Nairobi: As President of the legislature of Æcæus, I make mine, and proclaim it as a declaration of the President of the legislature, Euconistis Vascos, EH, Sociists Vascos-Euscalkalists, together Podemos-Nozzer, and of the Basque Council-Chapula-Chaplamentarians, and of the International Society for an expression of Nabiro. I'm gonna read the clips. The full expression is on the website of the Basque Act: The parliamentary parliament of Tripoli Eucoleus has made the expression of the Niorobi, of the International Act of Development and of the International Division, in the 15th of November, 2019, accepted in the upper page of Nairobi, of the Vitantary and 25th of the International Society in Cairo, 1994. To celebrate the anniversary. The Nairobi Declaration reflects the commitments made by all signatory countries to ensure the access of all women and girls to sexual and reproductive health services, the right and access to sexual education, the recognition and respect for sexual and reproductive rights and the commitment to violence against women. So that before 2030 a world will be assured that three zeros can be obtained: As for counterception without satisfaction, nothing can be avoided but the violence of mothers and women and girls. In the sphere of the upper sphere, the commitment to fulfill the international program of Euskon's singing and development is confirmed in helping the program of essential service against generic violence, and in particular, taking part in the humanitarian contexts and international initiatives. So since we've exhausted the list of subjects, I put an end to the whole meeting. The meeting ended at twelve-thirty in the morning.
