ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the entire Union. Before we proceed to the subject list, I remember that 32 lords and ladies have inherited the vote. One theme: "Annomy, Ogage, and Preservation of the Preservative Committee, concerning the bill of law which the General Preservation of the 2021th year of Euskal Autonomia Er member has agreed to. Discipline and final resolution. The following is the procedure which will be used to discuss the judgment: first, the first round of the teams, the 30 minutes from the small to the big, to show the position of the teams in regard to the impact they've made, yes, and if they've booked any corrections, what reasons they've had to reserve. To answer, it'll be 10 minutes. When the debate is over, those who are reserved for divisional corrections will vote together according to their groups. Anyway, if any team asks them to vote separately, they will. Then the squares and appendages that collect the budget's sump of expenses will be voted with the changes approved on the committee's controversy. As for the corrections proposed to the articles, they will first vote for the corrections made by the popular-Chapcanos, and then the corrections made by the EH Collect Group. And in conclusion, we vote for the other articles of judgment, attachments, and the title of law. After these explanations, we'll discuss them. So, the Mist team representative. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u1	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I do not want to start this intervention without denouncing the real scandal experienced by this institution, the Basque Parliament, because from before Christmas until today, the day this process ends, we have been turning around a matter that was already over. Parliament costs all Basques EUR 35 million a year, or the same thing, almost EUR 96,000 a day. Let us account for the simple ones and, moreover, everyone will understand them: 56 days have passed since the 18th of December in which they presented the accounts until today, 11 February. Almost two months of underutilised Parliament, of in vain work by all opposition groups to finally approve accounts that are almost identical to the initial ones. I will give you, to awaken your consciences, some data showing the services or advantages that we have all lost in these days of roll and democratic posture. 56 days for 96,000 euros give the amount of 5,376,000 euros. With this amount, 134,000 PCR tests could have been paid or more than 1,800 health workers could have been hired to perform screening, patient care, plant reinforcement, etc. Assistance could also have been given to the hotel industry, almost EUR 500 per month, for the payment of rents or mortgages. This is the scandal of Basque politics, a situation that has only one responsible, and it is the Government. Stretching the gum of the Budgets and its democratic pantomime to simply consolidate the message of appearance of dialogue. There are many readers of Greek thought in the government. You know about the corruption of democracy in demagogy, its natural degradation according to Aristotle. I hope you will be aware that with your attitude you are working on that, to turn our democracy into pure demagogy. We live in the time of appearances, what a doubt it is, but perhaps we should take something into account to morale and leave the artifices and communication games for other moments. They are not welcome when we have thousands of people in ruin, so many others sustained by a major effort of the Administration, which cannot last forever, and many dying in a terrible pandemic that you do not know how to tackle. In any case, returning to the subject that brings us together here today, the fact is that once the general budget of the Basque Autonomous Community has been approved, the work of the partial amendments can only involve a small piece of paper and paint, because, as you know, there is no possibility of moving the money, but of managing it within each section, without being able to change the amounts already earmarked. In this context, we have made 217 partial amendments, the basic objective of which is to put a small component of sanity and, in other cases, to denounce the number of possibilities available to use a criterion of economic rationality rather than ideological propaganda. There are, as I said, 217 amendments which involve moving some EUR 216 million within the budget itself. Since it is impossible to address the nature of all the amendments, I am going to focus on some fundamental points, programmes of new creation and ambitious projects that are lost today in favour of nothing, or, rather, that everything remains the same, as if nothing had happened, as if we had not had the COVID, as if life had not changed us and had not shown us that together we are stronger, that there is no self-determination, because it is a mere metaphysical formula, but that the Basques depend on the Riojas, Navarros, Morcianos, Extremeños..., the rest of the Spaniards, to be that we are all one, and that the bigger that one is the stronger we will be as a society, as Basques and as Spaniards. I will confine myself to summarising, very briefly, some of the main projects on which our amendments have been built, knowing that they are being built in order to adapt to the general framework of the budget and are not Vox measures, they are not the measures that Vox defends in a strict sense, but they are born of the need to adapt to the framework. We have made several amendments for the same purpose: to help and improve the body of the Ertzaintza. Our police have serious shortcomings, many of which have been known to all for many years and which continue to remain in second place. There are a number of focus points where we focus our efforts and, above all, it is important to highlight the specialization of crime and research, not forgetting issues such as equipment. Local commerce has long been bleeding out in front of two rivals of a different nature. On the one hand, the big multinationals that play with various advantages – from purchasing capacity, positioning in cities, advertising, wider schedules... We all remember, at least those of a certain age, the arrival of this form of commerce to the cities and the hard blow it took for small trade. However, that enemy was not going to be the main one, as, on the other hand, with the emergence of the Internet and large distribution platforms, such as Amazon, the issue has become even more complicated. Now they must face a giant who has no problem with dumping, selling almost without margin and, moreover, declaring outside the country. Double ruin: on the one hand, for entrepreneurs and, on the other, for society. We – beyond the tax issue – believe that you can win several games by hand to these types of platforms, especially by taking advantage of other companies that already exist in our cities, turning home delivery service into an immediate issue and, of course, with a much broader catalogue. We have made an amendment in this regard and we would be delighted if someone from the Government would pick it up to boost it, so that our cities would also evolve very urgently. We have also planned hospitality aid. We have to take this matter seriously. We propose to generate specific funds that go in this direction, as well as items for innovation. Yesterday we saw it, there are two moments: resisting the pandemic and relaunching the flight once it is going backwards. We believe that both issues go hand in hand. Therefore, investing in innovation, to make our hospitality more efficient, will help us to be somewhat stronger after this difficult and harsh situation. On the other hand, it is also important to promote Spanish culture. We are the epicenter of Hispanicity or at least one of its centers. However, you hide it as who sweeps and keeps the crap under the carpet. And finally, the families. They're touched and sunk. The COVID is done with the birth. What to do? Strengthening work reconciliation. It is necessary to leave the demographic winter in which we find ourselves and that people are not afraid of the decision to have family. Families are the first thing. We must protect them and, in addition, we must empower them. This is the summary of our proposals. Initiatives that seek to add, that seek to make us big, not smaller; get out of the cave to see how the sun of a great country has made us all great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u2	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. representing the Basque Team Popular-Ciudados. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Members of the Bureau, Mr Lehendakari, members of the Basque Government, ladies and gentlemen: In our system, Parliament, as you know, has three functions: passing laws, controlling the government and approving the budget. In fact, the adoption of the budget is the oldest of the tasks of parliaments, as you well know. And the approval of the budget has a little of the two above. The Budget is a law, on the one hand, and it also provides a mechanism, as you know, for controlling the Government. At least in theory. In the history of constitutionalism, the parliamentary system ends up being consolidated when the Executive needs Parliament's authorization to create new taxes, new fees, and to approve the expenditure it wants to make. After a long evolution, we come to the current situation, where the budgets adopted in the modern parliaments include a forecast of revenue, on the one hand, a forecast of expenditure and a series of legislative amendments that are necessary to implement this budget – legislative amendments, traditionally, were included in a parallel law, which was known as the "accompanying law"; lately they are already being approved jointly and in the same legislative body, in the same legal body, as you know. The budgets involve realising what are the ideals, the political programmes of the Government and the groups, in this case, that support it; they set out the specific measures, as you know, that a government has raised both in its political agenda and in its commitments. Budgets should never be, never should they be, the realization of the subsidiaries and phobias that governments may have towards certain social groups, nor can they be budgets that listen deafly to the challenges that society faces. The Budgets for the year 2021 had and have, in our view, two major challenges: to combat COVID-19 and to recover economic activity and, therefore, also employment. That is and continues to be the great challenge before all of us, ladies and gentlemen, the Government itself and also Parliament and all public institutions. On the other hand, the Budgets that this government has presented, already from the beginning, which was also seen as a closed package, are Continuous Budgets, they are Budgets that increase the debt to pay current expenditure. They do not envisage any major reforms that will help to recover the economy or reactivate employment. They gave everything to European funds, funds which, by the way, it seems that their partner Sánchez is not going to let them manage too much. They introduce various clauses, bridge clauses, which allow for the reassignment of items later, fleeing parliamentary control. I am not saying that there must be no spending reallocation clauses at a given time, when there is a further increase in revenue, but what there must be, or what there can never be, is parliamentary control over these kinds of issues. The opposite is to distort the budget and the opposite is to distort the parliamentary procedure. For months, our group has been holding hands for months to produce budgets that are in line with the challenges we have at the moment. Instead, the coalition, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi drew up, as I say, continuous budgets that make it as if nothing happened here. Then they call on the opposition to ask us to support them simply. Man!, I believe, Mr Azpiazu, members of the Government, I believe that already, with all the accumulated experience that we have, and that you have so much more than I do, you know that this is not how budgets are agreed. But, well, now the story had to be built. So, Mr Azpiazu was calling the various opposition groups, giving them a closed package and insinuating, practically, at least later in the press, that if we didn't support them, hey, what a lock and that we were irresponsible. Moreover, then, they have tried to make the entire opposition, not just us, appear to be guilty of not reaching an agreement. Again, what seems important here is the story: to blame someone, to see who is to blame that the opposition does not support the Government's Budgets. If that were not enough, Mr Azpiazu said clearly when he appeared in the Committee on the Economy, Finance and Budgets to present the draft, that they had the majority necessary to approve the budget and that they would therefore not accept any amendment that would distort the draft. Man, I believe, if I may, that, since they have absolute majority, they are behaving, if any, with greater political pride. Greater pride, not only in society, which is projected in the media, in the institutions that govern, and, lately, in addition, is also being projected towards judges. Judges who have not stopped criticizing in press conferences every time they have taken away their reason. And this situation already, the truth, is that stalks, and this can't be. They have an absolute majority in this House, in this Parliament, and they are therefore going to win all the votes. We already know this story, they are going to win all the votes, and all the proposals that the opposition is going to put forward today in this last process are going to be defeated by the numbers. I do not expect that in this very important process today, the groups supporting the Government will change their minds and accept some of the proposals that we have put before them, not just our group, but other groups that make up the House. In fact, I am almost certain that in their speeches the groups that support the Government will try to teach us lessons to the opposition groups and will end up reminding us, as they have recently done in other debates – I am not inventing anything – that they have an absolute majority and therefore do not need any extraordinary support. We have already had this debate in a number of committees, including the Committee on Economics, Finance and Budgets, which I have the honour to chair, and in which only two amendments have been adopted – I think there were three or four, but two amendments – one proposal by the government groups, which was the change of name of one item, which had no economic impact whatsoever, and another one for aid to the Sahara issue. Look, despite this situation, in our group we have taken the budgetary procedure, the parliamentary procedure of the budgets very seriously, and we also believe that these budgets are the most important ones that we will adopt in this House in decades, because they will define what will be the future, above all, of society and the future of the next generations. In our group we have worked very hard with the sole objective that through budgets we can help families, the self-employed, the entrepreneurs, the middle and working classes, so that they can all have and improve their living conditions, because, certainly, in the current circumstances more and more people are having a really bad time. That is why, at the moment, following the parliamentary procedure, I insist, we are submitting an amendment as a whole. The amendment as a whole is only a request to the Government to withdraw the draft it has submitted, redraft it and resubmit another draft Budgets. We are following the parliamentary procedure, because, of course, these proposals were all laid down by the majority which governs and which is reflected in this Chamber, to which there is nothing to object from a democratic parliamentary point of view, we are following the parliamentary procedure and, after asking it to reconsider and to resubmit another budget more in line with what we believe to be the needs of society at the present time, they were all rejected with the votes of these two groups, and we move on to the next procedure, which is that of the partial amendments. At that time, when all the groups tabled the partial amendments, we too, received the budget with great interest, and we also analysed it and worked very hard, we worked at length by analysing the budget lines and comparing them with the budget lines of previous budgets and projects. We have asked the government the corresponding questions and we have tabled 840 amendments, 840 amendments, because we take it seriously, 840 partial amendments. It is a pity that we have not found that vision in the Government either, but I want to insist: these are no longer budgets. We played a lot over the next decade, and these have to be budgets designed for economic and employment recovery. If we don't move, if we don't change this, the situation will get worse. We won't have another chance like this. That is why we argue that yes, that it was time to leave trenches and listen to the proposals came from where they came from, instead of presenting a closed and irremovable package or, in the words of Mr Azpiazu, I only quote what was said here in committee, that no amendment would be accepted that could distort it. There is nothing illegitimate about this because the government has the perfect right, in addition to the majority, to present the budget it deems appropriate, but, man, then blame the opposition for not unconditionally adhering to the budget it presents... Man!, I think that is already convenient to say here publicly in the Chamber. After all the amendments that we have tabled, not just us, but the other groups, I wonder: was none of the 800 amendments that we have tabled good? –thousand and peak in total, but our group, 800. Wasn't any of the 800 good? None of the 800 were life-saving? Is it not good, for example, to increase aid to the concerted school? He'll say, "No, we've increased the number to the school." Now, what happens is that you do not increase the amount of structural expenditure, which has been frozen for many years. Is it not good, for example, to achieve the gratuitousness of children's school? Isn't it good, for example, to bet on entrepreneurs? Is it not good, for example, to really support hospitality, instead of criticizing judgments that only establish what is fair in law? Is it not good, for example, to bet on the full digitisation of society and of the administration itself, including above all the great forgotten ones, which are the rural areas and the most deprived areas of our land? Is it not good, for example, to improve the training and materials of the Ertzaintza, of our Police? Is it not good, for example, to reduce high-ranking positions and devote this money to fighting this disease, to combating COVID, and to regaining employment? Is it not good, for example, to reduce the huge amount of public television spending that is practically more expensive than it is and to invest this in training, digitisation, health...? Is it not good, for example, to help families reconcile family and professional life? And is it not good, is it not good, at last, to increase the investment also in Osakidetza to allow, above all, an early vaccination of the population?, because the rhythm at which we are going, and this has well denounced it my comrade Laura Garrido in the commission, because, finally, it remains for the commission. The Budgets presented by the Basque Nationalist-Basque Socialist coalition are, if I may, a bit like Marmot Day. Every year – and we know this because we have compared budgets – every year we find the same items, or very similar to small changes. Many of these items, moreover, then remain unexecuted or are implemented well below budget, which is told to the groups that at the time agreed or reached a budget agreement, that then the items that are agreed at a given time with groups other than the opposition Government remain unexecuted or are implemented to a lesser extent. Not just last year. You can tell me: "Man, it's that last year, Mr. Gordillo, it's that you too, last year was a particularly exceptional year. You can't ask us to execute the budget." Well, it's just that it was practically executed like it's usually executed. And this is the mark of the house. Let's check it out, for example, in the Bizkaia District Council. It is that the budget is always implemented up to 20%. There is always a remaining 20 % in all rows. Man, I think the budget has to be a budget that fits reality and therefore it has to be fully implemented. If not, hey!, reduce the departure, but that of leaving some remnants unexecuted and then starting there to transfer from one area to another, or from one item to another, for, man, it doesn't seem like the best budgetary technique, much less. We understand that there are very difficult inertias to reverse and that it is much more comfortable to take the budget of the previous year, make a few small modifications and take out three or four headlines, which are of interest at every moment. This government seems to have just begun, it seems to have just begun, but it is a government that, essentially, has already spent more than eight years on the same budgets. And it's a government that already gives symptoms of exhaustion. We see this in the management of the pandemic: the quagmire of justice, the lack of criteria for debugging political responsibilities and the presentation of these budgets. There is a need for a change of focus and content in the budgets, it is very necessary. You have to change the chip, you have to realize that the situation has changed and that reality has passed us all over. The pandemic has put us all in our place and reminded us of what is important and, above all, reminded us that we are all here to serve the citizenry. We cannot continue every year with these same budget lines and the huge current expenditure we have. I insist, current expenditure, which is going to be financed from the debt in this year. "The debt is down, Mr. Gordillo." Yes, less bad!, because as half a point goes up the debt we will see what this is about. These are the budgets that have led us to a dead end after a nefarious 2020. Everything that's happened in 2020... Obviously, Mr. Counsellor – we are serious here, you know me – I will not blame you for the COVID. Man, I was just missing! But, man, it's true that with the budgets we're hardly going to be able to cope with what has left us 2020: 15,000 more unemployed people in Euskadi; almost 22,000 less members of Social Security, and going up – all of this, by the way, not counting the ERTEs, right?–; another 40,000, or more than 40,000, workers who are in ERTEs, indeed, and 30% less signed contracts. The worst, as always, for commerce and hospitality. The hospitality industry is almost 8,000 members less – more than a third of the total. And the case of youth, of young people, that we do not forget are the future, but we must also look at it selfishly, it is the future taxpayers, who will pay for the whole social system on which our well-being is based. Young people, as I say, have increased by 36% in the number of unemployed. To make it easy, and we have already said it here, in this House, and it is well known, 2020 has meant the loss of all the jobs generated in 2018 and 2019. We believe that much better can be done. Euskadi is lagging behind in many areas. And we know it; you know it. The economic indicators themselves and others show that the situation is bad, and it is going to get worse. The Budgets, I said at the beginning, are the foundations on which the action of the Government is based, the action of a government, and, without good foundations, we will not be able to reverse these kinds of tendencies. You, the truth is that you are not used to governing; you are used to administering, which is something else. It's one thing to govern and it's another to administer. They are used to administering the same budgets, the items of which are repeated year after year in an endless loop. Man, this doesn't have much complication either: repeat the same budget lines year after year, so, man... This we believe is not exactly to govern, it is rather, as I say, to administer. And this is not the time for administrators, ladies and gentlemen, it is the time for rulers, to adopt budgets that are ambitious, that allow the necessary reforms to recover the economy and employment. We will be told that they are the highest budgets – then we will comment on it in the turn of the reply – which are the budgets, I say, with a greater increase, with greater funds in the recent budgetary history of our Community of Euskadi. We will also be told that it is the social budgets. Man, it's just that the social state is funded by the autonomous communities. To nothing that there is a small increase, of course, it can already be said that they are the most social budgets, right? But, man, reality, as we say, is another. We have been dragging a few inertias, for years, that have not wanted to avoid – for comfort, for comfort, listen, because...–. Political tancredism: they have preferred comfortable management knowing that there were indicators showing the deterioration of the economy and employment in Euskadi. The pandemic, I insist, has meant a bath of reality – for everyone, uh, but those who are at the moment in government are you. It's been a hard blow. This pandemic has, in every sense – personal, sentimental, in general the mood of the population, and economic – been a tremendous blow. We will not stand another blow of this magnitude. And this would have to be an opportunity to re-evaluate priorities, cut out the superfluous and streamline the administration. Unfortunately, it wasn't like that. We all know that today, within a few hours – three, four hours – the draft Government Budgets will be approved and we will have missed the opportunity to change things. But our commitment, and our extended hand, that of the group I represent, will not end today nor will it end here. Tough years come: the effects of the pandemic will accompany us for a long time, longer than we would all like. Today, the 2021 budget process is over. After the summer return we will start with the following. I hope, I hope, that in a better situation, and I hope that we will at last note the effects of the vaccine – or vaccines – and that will allow us to gradually recover normality in all directions, but the pandemic and its economic consequences are far from being completely forgotten by then. That is why I have already announced to you, Mr Councillor, that I have already announced to the groups in this House that in everything that involves saving lives, saving jobs and reactivating the economy, but really, but really, we are keeping our hand sincerely open. We hope that next year we can have a real partnership, from our differences, because Basque society deserves budgets that will respond to the challenges we are going to face in the next decade. As the economic indicators are, it is not disposable that throughout this year we have other appearances similar to this one to make some adjustment and, even, to resort to debt, it is not disposable at all. And this debate will again come out. And this situation will come out again that we cannot be permanently covering regular expenditure with debt. What needs to be done is to reactivate the economy to increase collection. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are asking the House today to support our amendments. We ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support entrepreneurs, to support hospitality. We ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support concerted education and families. And we ask, ladies and gentlemen, that the necessary reforms be carried out to revive the economy and to revive employment. That is the commitment of our group and, for that, ladies and gentlemen, you will have our hand. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u4	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together, Mr. Hernández, you represent the Podemos Etauerda Unida, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u5	Good morning, congressmen. I will briefly explain to you in these five minutes of what I have, the three main arguments that from Ezker Anitza-Izquierda Unita we want to highlight from the reasons why our coalition, our parliamentary group Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, is going to reject the Budgets today with its negative vote. Firstly, because we believe that, in the face of a short-term but large-scale crisis, these budgets do not take advantage of the Government's capacity to have the resources necessary to combat the impact of a large-scale crisis. We believe that it is a renunciation that will have consequences on the popular sectors and the most vulnerable layers of society, who are the ones most in need of the usefulness of public service policies and, ultimately, of public budgets. The Government had the capacity to have additional resources to support the economic sectors it was suffering from, to combat job losses and to truly strengthen public services – in particular, of course, health and education – but also to meet from the public a social need that could no longer be relegated to the private sphere, such as care, without which the wheel of the economy could not turn and which continued to fall on women and in the private sphere, mainly. Secondly, because we believe that the Government speaks every year about the importance of health, education or social protection in budgets, but we think it is a propaganda exercise if we do not explain the model that supports the different areas of action in budgets, how that money is used in these areas. Mr Gordillo said a moment ago that the budgets are the implementation of policies. Well, we think that these budgets support the most subsidized private education from all over the state and from all over Europe, while listening to public schools that have to go around asking for blankets of courtyards so that the kids don't get wet or that they have had to see the scam, the theft, of the school canteens that have cost millions of euros to both the public coffers and the families. These budgets involve public health based on an unorthodox working time and working conditions that have not been renewed for more than 10 years, with essential privatized services, such as ambulances or emergencies, not to mention referrals in interventions and, of course, a multitude of services, such as maintenance, cleaning, laundry, etc. A model that brings benefits – at the cost of the public – for service companies that are increasingly less specialized; that involves job insecurity, and that involves a gradual degradation of public health. And budgets that, in the area of social protection, continue to maintain cuts that were launched in the previous crisis and that affect precisely the hardest hit in the system, those who need greater protection from public accounts. Thirdly, we believe that these are budgets that continue to deny the possibility of the most necessary tax reform. This, for our group, is particularly bloody, not so much because of the need for collection, but, above all, because in recent years, with the fiscal model of the Basque Nationalist Party, agreed with the Basque Socialist Party, but also with the People's Party, the differences between the incomes of capital and the incomes of the workers have only increased. This, for us, was rude and unacceptable before the pandemic, and it's more rude with the pandemic crisis we have on top. The crisis should not lead us to postpone that debate, as the Government says; on the contrary, it makes it more necessary than before. A model that widens the gap between the working class and the capitalists is an unfair model, which does not fulfil its role of redistribution of wealth. The Budgets, with the model of public spending and investment practiced, do not fulfil their role as guarantors of equality in the material living conditions of society. Both things clash frontally with that expression that we are so often moved to this Parliament: "We all have to row in the same direction, as in a trainer". But, in our opinion, this model, as a whole, rather than a trainer, resembles a Roman galley: some row; others mark the rhythm, and the least enjoy the breeze.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u6	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Ma'am, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u7	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Well, it's finally time for us to accept the Pre Account Act. And I'd say that, moreover, some of the other Chinese have also said that it's one of the most important, or the most important, law of budget that has been admitted to these 40 years. And it will be admitted, that the Law of Presidency will be admitted, but it will be admitted only by the consent of the parties in which the Government supports it, because this bill will be blamed for all opposition. It's not two months to be done now. And in that script, just like it was written in that script, the bill leaves today just as it came in. No change, no change, not a small coma, without any other effort than a different situation would require. All by yourself. Eta, zoritxarrez, ez da ausardia – Gobernuak was horrella exacten baldin badu – law Honen Azean dagoen jarra. Law Honen atzean dagoen jarra betikoa da, age Honaino ekarri gaituen doctrina ekonomiko berbera du, hain zuzen ére. It is an ideological framework in which the objectives of full employment public policy, the consolidation of rights, the extension of rights and the continuous improvement of public services are residual. The important thing, the cornerstone on which economic policy is based, is the deficit targets. You set yourself accounting goals to lead the country in the face of the civilizational challenges ahead, rather than just the opposite. Therefore, and despite the enormous effort made by all opposition groups, and in particular our own, there will be no change. There will be no changes because, beyond a negotiation simulation, the truth is that there was no intention, throughout the whole budgetary process, to modify nor a peak a budget that is insufficient and, at some point, even a reference. It is that the Government took its time to prepare the budget, also to answer our questions regarding the implementation of the previous budget. But the opposition had a weekend to assess and ask questions to counselors and another weekend to decide whether to accept the Executive's offer. I told Mr Lehendakari on another occasion, and I would repeat it today, and it is too often that the negotiation is confused with subordination, and the agreement with a blank cheque. Beraz, aldaketarik ez of the ego ez dellako aldaketarik emango Gobernuaren ohiko marko theoriko makroekonomikoan. The Basque public sector is not being resized as required, we believe, by the whole of society, including multilateral institutions such as the World Health Organization. Nor do we find discretionary public spending that will allow us to see a horizon of optimism in the future, nor processes that will allow us to reverse decades of deregulation and privatization. What has been put on the table at the macroeconomic level? As usual, business as usual. From Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we believe that we are also playing all the cards to, on the one hand, the European funds, the European funds at the level of strategic investments, funds that clearly do not intend to decide here either – which is, precisely, the house of Basque sovereignty – but in large offices of lawyers or consultants; and, on the other hand, in the State, in this reference to the social benefits and networks that can reach to cushion the deep social crisis that we are engaged in. They are as aware as we are that the growth forecasts they presented for 2021 were overly optimistic a few months ago, and today they are simply false. But it is also that, even if we took them as acceptable, the effort that is being made there in terms of discretionary spending of pure fiscal stimulus is nimio. And why, why? We wonder why, and find only ideological reasons, reasons of economic doctrine. And they are already expired doctrines, which the current crisis we believe would already have buried once and for all. In fact, there is not a single technical reason for such a lukewarm intervention in the face of what is already the greatest socio-economic crisis in our recent history. Therefore, we insist once again, the Basque public sector must react and must react as soon as possible. We know, I'm saying, that there will be no change, no more public debts will be issued to the National Confederation Committee of Economics. All credits which Parliament will accept today will not be included in any particular game. And why – this is what we also ask – why save resources in a tailor's drawer, in the account of "different departments", if they are needed now? We have not yet received any of these questions during this two-month process; simply appeals to accountability. However, even if you refused to do the former law again, you might have insisted on all the oppositions, our team, together with Podemos-Euunderda, has acted carefully, and have worked so importantly in this budget that we have suggested several corrections in the area which is more needed. But the government privileges are on the other side. There will therefore be, as we wanted, no publication of privatized health services in Osakidetza, no policy for the publication of residences, and no guaranteed employment plan that strengthens public services and employs long-term unemployed people. Nor will the cuts be reversed in the GIR, nor does the consensual evaluation of a social service system that is also in the ICU arise. Why, for example, is there no courage to make the necessary investment to ensure 100 % reinforcement and deployment of the social services portfolio? Why do we still not understand that social protection is a right? And why do we deny the right of more and more people to a decent livelihood? Unfortunately, and despite our efforts, the truth is that there has been no way to start commitments in this regard. I said it on 29 January and I repeat it today, and because it is true that as it happened already in 2008, it is sometimes difficult to size the challenge ahead. The budgets of 2021 are drawn up after the greatest shock our economy has suffered in its recent history. A shock that is, first and foremost, socio-healthy, but which has also abruptly impacted the world's productive system and has dislocated the already evil world of work. The last blows are even being anemic, and soon the outbreaks we have to deal with will probably be of mental health. Basque citizenship, and especially the most vulnerable people, carry too many blows. We are going to a decade of precariousness of life, of weakening community ties. Several decades of management management of Osakidetza, of job insecurity and, therefore, of loss of public health services which, of course, have intensified the health and economic effects of this crisis. But not only has Osakidetza suffered the dogma of "zero deficit". Residences, social services, justice, education... all have been as tense as they have never been and require an extraordinary effort. We also know that the commercial and hospitality fabric is at the limit of its possibilities, while the large shopping centers or logistics centers of companies, which are also famous for their harmful labor policy, are doing August. It is the international capital that fashioned this sordid slogan that "there is no crisis but opportunity" and they are taking advantage of the texture to do what is called "the doctrine of shock. " Capital moves abruptly, decapitalizing companies and productive plants that even in our territory are profitable, simply because they believe they can have more profit margin in the future. The crisis of care, of which the various social actors and, in particular, the feminist movement have warned us, has been exacerbated to unbearable limits. The increasing rates of inequality and unemployment, the weakening of wealth redistribution structures and public services are often combined, we also say, with the feminization of work at home, in residences and in the home care service. The situation in many households and sectors is as unbearable as it is in primary health and requires public, determined and structural intervention, which requires the creation of a Community public health system. Sometimes it seems like it's funny that we talk about model change, but it's just that we believe that the model that has been applying these 40 years has been shown to be fragile and unstable. The virus has also finished widening the cracks of this model and, as I said, the situation for many people is too unbearable. That is why we will continue to insist on this idea, that recovery must always be led from the public. We cannot delegate responsibility for recovery again to large multinationals or foreign capital. This formula has already been used and has left us with a chaotic economy that has deteriorated employment and has plunged us into growing inequality. The public requires more than ever investment, and only the public sector can lead an economic recovery that is equitable and that lays the foundation for a dignified future. We cannot allow the same thing to happen. And this is about putting in place a battery of public policies that deploy a Basque social shield, as we already proposed to the lehendakari, at that meeting we did, through our program Duintasunez. We need a paradigm shift in care policy. It is urgent to build a system that ensures that everyone who needs it will be cared for unconditionally and throughout his life, and, in addition, that he does so by generating non-precarious employment. We are all codedependent and all, to a greater or lesser extent, we need to be cared for at different stages of our lives. To this end, we have made a number of concrete proposals, such as initiating a path towards the publication of residences, but they have rejected it. They rejected the possibility of creating a paper – that was before – that would allow us to evaluate and identify areas of improvement and think about the care that continues to be provided free of charge and in which we could begin by articulating a policy of co-responsibility, which prioritizes the community approach, which generates network and social and territorial cohesion, which in turn takes care of the networks that the neighbours showed us as the most effective to give rapid responses in times of pandemic. We also proposed that public day care should be free of charge; it was also rejected. We proposed regularising home services, generating community support networks, more public equipment and support, but everything has been rejected. We have insisted that care is the main support of life, not a rhetorical resource, and that it is essential to shield it from public responsibility, creating a community public system. And we continue to do so because, despite the fact that the opposite is said, they seem to prefer to continue to delve into a model of privatization and precariousness, which has basically, moreover, a woman's face, and which brings down our double and triple working days. The international agencies and NGOs at the international and national levels warn us that the impact of the covid will bring us back to levels of inequality similar to those experienced during the worst years of the previous crisis and that the effect of this coup will lead us to unprecedented levels of poverty. And, through this budget, what they want is to respond to this challenge with an "extraordinary COVID background", which is temporary and scarce. This was a time to bet on funding that would allow for a real deployment of the social services portfolio, services to which anyone living together in our country is entitled, as well as education and health, but we are conditioning the institutions' actions to extreme cases and raising increasingly insufficient and digital attention. That is why we also propose measures that affect the digital divide, which excludes, which denies access to information and to the law in general. This was and is the time to ensure that the rights to social inclusion and minimum income are independent of each other and that they must be coordinated from different administrative levels. That is why we propose to double the fund of social emergency aid, the creation of inter-institutional coordination services that advance in the comprehensive response of sinogarism or also to improve care and prevention in the face of machist violence. This was and is the time to put forward policies that are a real support for all the family models present in our society. This was the time to have learned some other lesson from the experienced health collapse and lay the necessary foundations to avoid the collapse to which social services and care workers are engaged. We have a moral obligation to strengthen Osakidetza and to reverse the privatization processes and the managerial logic that you have imposed on the entire health community, to which you have applauded, but with the small mouth, since strikes happen, one after another, in the Basque socio-health sector, to which they seem to make deaf ears. All the opposition's proposals and amendments in this regard have been dropped. It is essential, there is an urgent need to increase the health budget and to move forward, at a good time, on the equalisation of the public health budget with the average of the European Union. Nor can we afford to devote less than 25% of each OSI's budget to primary care. It also serves to develop the vaccination campaign against COVID with necessary material and human resources. Primary is the real first line in the defense of health. This country also deserves, because it is possible and necessary, that waiting lists in outpatient centres should be less than 48 hours. And how many people have stopped coming to your clinic for primary saturation? These people who receive cures, analysis, continuous care must feel protected, and it is the workers who need to know that reinforcements are coming. Education is another of the key competences of the Basque Government and another of the supporters of our society, in which the whole community (workers, teachers, students and parents) is making a huge effort. However, they have not considered it appropriate to strengthen the workforce, to invest more in infrastructure, or to move towards the gratuitousness of the haurreskolas. Nor increase scholarships, which in many families makes the difference between an opportunity horizon and hopelessness. We need to open up horizons of future and hope. That is why we believe that another axis on which public policies should focus in the future and what we are insisting on is the direct creation of quality jobs. No appeals to entrepreneurship or training plans for placement in non-existent jobs. Public employment and decent employment go hand in hand. A guaranteed employment plan that would enable us to support the poor public sector in the Basque Republic, while giving job opportunities to those who need it most. This will has also been translated into a series of amendments that respond to a number of employment plans, starting – I say – with a guaranteed employment plan for long-term unemployed, with a budget of 22.5 million, and following focused plans, such as a youth employment plan, another focusing on local development agencies in regions particularly affected by unemployment, an employment plan geared towards emerging sectors in which the public administration can impact, etc. But they haven't been accepted either. Our productive and mobility system, they have also consolidated it as a voracious metabolism, which consumes natural resources far above the possibilities of our territory. A paradigm shift is also urgent in this area. And yet, they have insisted on keeping the extraction of fossil fuels in Basque territory, with the same excuses as 30 years ago. Our group has tabled amendments for the final liquidation of SHESA and from the government it has offered to halve its budget, but finally it is imposed the immobilism and the continuity of the policies with the 6.8 million that will cost us SHESA, with which we could start the road towards a public energy company – for which, by the way, our group proposed to allocate 1.2 million – or to invest in the generation of solar energy for self-consumption in roofs of public buildings, which we intended to do with 3.7 million. However, the transition to renewable energy continues to be delayed. How many more decades is the energy transition going to take us? We have also been committed to creating a research, development and innovation plan, because we believe that we are playing the future and that we have to invest to put Euskadi in a good position to exit the post-crisis context. To conclude, the budgets of 2021 are indispensable resources to ensure a number of things, the economic recovery based on equality, and the ecological transition that can no longer be postponed, but the project introduced by the government does not respond, as we believe, to the historical challenge we have today, because it is a continuation of the previous, almost identical with that of the former, except the pre-recognition program in front of the EchievOVID, of which, on the other hand, does not seem to be the same as the number of parts. You say that you have no need of any one, and that you have all your answers in your hands, but that you haven't had any mistakes lately, and that you must remind you that we are still paying the bad consequences of your answer to the previous crisis, and not cheaply. It must be asserted that the usury of the financial trade produced a crisis, that you fewer public services, fewer public officials, fewer RGI, less hospital beds... you made up your mind. Today, by an irregular economy, by a global economy starving with natural and natural resources, at the moment when we stand in front of a serious pandemia, you will act on justice, but your attitudes and priorities have not changed, they have not changed. And we will not give our support to the weak to the strong and strong to the cowards. We will follow the public firm, join the common people and the common people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u8	Thank you, madam. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u9	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. The chief physician, señorías, good day to all. Today we come to the final stage for the approval of the Basque Government's budgets for 2021. Gure erkidegoan politica publikoei boultzada emateko trena ekonomikoari argi berdea ematera etorri gara hona. The Socialist Group, as we said in the debate on amendments to the whole, is convinced of our support for a budget project that sets out a clear road map and the use of all the instruments offered by self-government to work on the new transformations that are, and will be, necessary to tackle the exit of this strengthened pandemic in our economic structures and socially cohesive. Essential budgets to meet the three priority objectives of the government agreement between Basque Nationalists and Basque Socialists: to ensure the health of the citizenry, to recover the economy and employment in Euskadi. These budgets, with more than EUR 12,442 million, allow us to face the year 2021 and the beginning of this parliamentary term, budgetary and politically, with sufficient stability to deal with the health and economic crisis generated by the pandemic and facing the challenges of the future. They are expansive budgets, but also budgets drawn up from responsibility and rigour in budgetary management. On the one hand, they represent the idea of conceiving this crisis also as a moment of opportunity to address the challenges of energy transformation, digital transformation and the need to strengthen our state of well-being, and to mitigate the inequalities that every crisis generates. On the other hand, the commitment to the value of the public, both in its entrepreneurial facet and in its protective facet, has been visible, and it is visible how we have established a public spending strategy to get out of the current crisis as soon as possible and to do so with stronger, more competitive and more social cohesion pillars. For this reason, these budgets express the commitment to the deployment of public policies with greater leverage capacity and a greater multiplier effect on the economy as a whole in the short and medium term. They include a covid programme, worth EUR 542 million, and more than EUR 535 million for R & D in 2021, a key year for innovation and digital transformation and innovative entrepreneurship. Accounts in which eight out of every 10 euros are allocated to social expenditure, where the Education budget accounts for 25% of the total budget, and are allocated to Health EUR 1,902 per person. We are facing a decisive and exceptional budgetary exercise, not only because of the urgency, but also because of the challenges of the future in the short and medium term, because we are laying the budgetary foundations for this parliamentary term. As for the Basque People-Citizens Group, as well as its amendment to the whole, the partial amendments are very similar to those tabled in the 2020 budget, where the bulk of them focus on employment, the social protection system, the family, education, support for entrepreneurs and the public sector, among others. Employment is the priority of the Basque Government in these budgets, is the number one commitment of the government programme and is explicit on the front page of the budget project. The challenge is enormous and the Basque Socialists are committed, first of all, to the generation of quality jobs, with adequate training and attention to the entrepreneurship and adaptation of unemployed people to the new opportunities that will generate the economic transition – in this regard, the project "new professional profiles" and "new skills" to respond to the challenge of care should be highlighted. Of the great transitions we face, the one related to ageing is the one that requires the greatest degree of innovation. These new employment niches will be explored to professionalise functions and tasks that have so far been part of informal work, insert new technologies into the home, promote quality jobs and create collaborative business models. Second, with a more effective public service. We have an outstanding task with the Public Employment Service, a new model of intermediation to adapt Lanbide services to the needs of businesses and people in their relations with the labour market. This transformation will involve the improvement of all aspects of Lanbide's performance, from organisational capabilities and service delivery to digitisation applied to management processes and brokering tools. Thirdly, with the elaboration of a project that strengthens our social protection system. The vital minimum income has been a great milestone, but it is facing, as the Spanish Government itself has acknowledged, the difficulties of accelerated growth. We have come to the present model after 20 years of pioneering protection experiences and it will undoubtedly be a challenge to adjust between this growing system and this consolidated Basque model that aspires to better protection. But in the meantime, in this exercise we will guarantee the right to social protection with more than EUR 459 million –10 more than last year – in a budget that, in any case, is expandable if circumstances require it. Of that protection network, 79 and a half million correspond to the supplementary housing benefit, which is maintained because it has been shown to be sufficient. Receivers will see an increase in the amounts they receive by 1.8%, twice as much as the growth in the salaries of the public administration. And fourth, with the safe work. Osalan will have a 7.2% more budget than last year. As far as education is concerned, the Government is making a great effort in favour of education. We have EUR 3,108 million – 25% of the total budget – which, with an increase of 5.7% over 2020, is the highest education budget we have ever had. In addition, from the COVID programme, EUR 95.6 million are earmarked, being the second most important destination in terms of the amount of credit after Health. While it is true, the COVID pandemic has highlighted the need to strengthen and deepen the improvement of our educational model. But you place your great educational priority in concerted teaching, do not place it in the Basque educational system. And yes, concerted education is playing an important role in a system that guarantees quality public education, either directly or through concerted centres that have achieved social peace in the sector more than a year ago after many months of conflict and collective bargaining, so we do not believe that it is appropriate to question the budget in this area or to introduce elements of distortion. As far as the public sector is concerned, we in this Parliament are dealing with the draft law on the Basque public sector, which includes the creation of the inter-institutional commission for the rationalization and dimensioning of the Basque public sector. In social policies, in the area of family and personal reconciliation, continuous action has been taken to reconcile personal, family and work life, which is intended to consolidate and boost almost EUR 42 million, 12.63 % of the department's total budget. Many of its amendments mention support for self-employed, small businesses and entrepreneurship, and they should be reminded of some of the cross-cutting support measures in different departments, such as support for entrepreneurship in the social economy, with almost EUR 3 million, or the direct ways of supporting entrepreneurship by Lanbide, with more than EUR 8 million, and more than EUR 3 million from the budgets of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs, as well as the effort to continue to promote programmes from the Department of Industry, such as Gauzatu, for investment and job creation, or Bideratu, which is a very important economic injection for Basque companies and, in particular, for those that are small and medium-sized enterprises. Finally, since you consider that this budget in the statement of expenditure does not include any item relating to European funds, I would like to remind you that this draft budget law contains a fifth chapter with eight articles specifically relating to the management of the Next Generation funds. This budget law is responsible for determining the bridge for the insertion of these funds into the Basque accounts, and there is also a separate and immediate identification for the transparent monitoring of the funds, and the Department of Economics and Finance can create a multi-departmental programme that incorporates the new credits linked to the recovery plan Next Generation. As for the Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita group, I would first like to assess the negotiating process, and I would highlight the attitude of its group, putting forward a proposal of maximums and without red lines, and hence it is also relevant the offer of the Basque Government, which had an impact of 97 million euros in order to be able to influence policies of health, care, equality and gender-based violence, social protection and inclusion, education, housing, employment, environment and energy efficiency. It seems to us to the Socialists that the offer of negotiation was generous, assuming a capacity of influence of 12.2% in the increase of real expenditure, in addition to being a viable offer, within the competence of the Basque Government, a realistic offer and in line with the existing budgetary availability, and also implying an improvement of certain expenditure items aimed at public policies and specific actions. We have tried this because we truly believe that we are faced with such an exceptional situation that it would have required a high level of political scrutiny and broader support at a difficult time for Basque society. You have focused many of your amendments in the areas of housing, care, quality of employment or equality – although it is a pity that you have not set aside time for defending your amendments in this plenary – even so let me – as my colleague Susana Corcuera did in the debate on the amendments as a whole – today also remind you that it is a political priority for the Socialists and the Basque Government to pursue policies to encourage the rental of housing, with the expansion of the public housing stock, and the responses to the subjective right to housing. Councillor Iñaki Arriola has already advanced, in his budget appearance, the construction of 1,250 sheltered houses for rent and the capture of 7,200 vacant buildings for the Bizigune programme, allocating 75% of the housing budget to direct expenditure on rental policies and 25% to urban rehabilitation. For our part, the amount for the supplementary housing benefit, we understand that it is an appropriate departure, but it can be expanded. In fact, in the negotiating process they were offered the 10% increase (€8.5 million) in the economic housing benefits, and supplementary housing benefits up to €275 per month, as well as the completion of the regulatory development of the Housing Act, with particular attention to the adoption of the decree on the subjective housing right. In the area of care, we will shortly approve the care strategy in the family environment and will work to promote formal care in the life route of the elderly. This requires strengthening support for caregivers, promoting a new gender balance model with personal, family, collective and institutional responsibility. In this regard, it should be recalled that the amendment of the Equality Act is going to be worked out in this legislature, and the Basque Government shows its firm commitment to continue working towards a society free of violence against women, especially taking into account the crisis generated by COVID and its consequences. The Basque Government's offer to its group in the area of care and equality was precisely the implementation of the care strategy for non-professional caregivers and the strengthening of measures for the care of victims of male violence, which could have further boosted these programmes if they had agreed. There is also a commitment against labour fraud. In four years, 20,000 contracts have been regularized and the budgets envisage the creation of new inspection posts, increased anti-fraud campaigns and equality plans. Equality plans that this year extend to companies with more than 100 workers and here in Euskadi have a specific budget for their dissemination, along with the campaign against the wage gap. We are talking about a budget allocation of EUR 1,470,000, intended for actions that, precisely, include the fight against the wage gap, inspections that guarantee equality or the promotion of women's entrepreneurship and talent, of which 80% (EUR 1,170,000) are new items, which did not exist in the 2020 budgets. All aspects dealt with and analysed within the framework of the social dialogue, and it is precisely in this same framework of the Social Dialogue Bureau where it has been agreed, on the proposal of Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia, that the complements of the ERTEs be extended, and in the budget proposal of 2021 there is the necessary financial envelope for such an extension. There is no better way to move forward than concertation. And these tables and their agreements are an example for politics, a policy that the Socialists miss in the budget debate; the commitment, beyond differences, to take Euskadi forward. These budgets could have been improved or strengthened if there had been a debate in the opposition's budget negotiation. The Socialists hoped that EH Bildu would understand that joining forces, doing politics with capitals at a time and in such exceptional circumstances as those we live in, and having a high eye to agree would bring society greater certainty to the future and greater strength of the proposals. Because, while the numbers give to take these Budgets forward, opening the agreement to other groups would strengthen and improve the budgets, in governance, with the law of bodies and scales and the law of public employment, with the planning of the improvement of the quality of public employment, with the negotiations at the sectoral tables of education and health, on equality, justice and social policies, responding to the challenges of care, promoting the deployment of the Basque System of Social Services, contributing 14 million euros to the social services fund and promoting the digitization of the Basque System of Social Services. These budgets provide for the attention of the sectors most affected by the health measures against COVID, and with a special fund for contingencies that cannot be foreseen. That is why I am stopping and making a point in the amendments to EH Bildu's report, which seeks a new additional provision to set up a fund to finance aid for economic sectors which have seen their activity limited, with a provision for cash balances of EUR 200 million to be extended. This amendment could be classified as a whole, since it represents a positive change in the total amounts of expenditure and income. But beyond technical assessments, it should be noted that in the budgets there is already the COVID programme, with EUR 542 million, and an important battery of measures for the economic sectors affected by the pandemic, and that they can be expanded over the course of the exercise according to needs. Amaitzen ari naz. The amendments to the whole and the partial amendments are not an alternative, they are complementary to the budgetary bases already laid down in their most outstanding aspects. They do not bring substantial changes to the measures of the COVID programme, to R & D+i, or to the main programmes of the Government. Nor do we see that the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs is making a real viable and realistic proposal to meet the needs of sectors such as hospitality, tourism and trade. Finally, as my colleague concluded in the plenary of amendments to the whole, it is clear that when the Socialists vote and reject the amendments that have been reserved for this plenary by both the Basque People's Group and EH Bildu, we will be able to tell citizens that by 2021 they will have budgets that support our public services, our model of protection, that support employment plans, that address climate challenges and that take account of equality as a cross-cutting axis of all policies of the Basque Government. And these urgent measures for today, and also those of tomorrow, and those of the short and medium term future, constitute the government program; they constitute Berpiztu, the program for economic recovery and employment 2020-2024; they are these budgets of 2021; they are Euskadi Next, and they are the strategic plans that you know. Because the Socialists have a commitment to the governance of Euskadi and the rest of the institutions and we want to offer the stability, stability and certainty that is needed today more than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u11	Thank you, ma'am, and good morning to all. In 2021, we've got the last thing we can do today to admit priorities. The whole tramite of the ancients has been placed in an unusual state, under very special conditions, in a context that increases the chaos we inhabit in this sanitarian, economic, and social crisis, even in all the planes, in the emotional. As the New One was well received by a newspaper headline this weekend, COVID-19 is getting a deep scar. The pandemics have put all our balances on the rocks. "The effects of closeness, isolation, and economic crisis have traversed thousands of lives, and have shaken the frail equilibrium of the life of society." The impact of the epidemic grows much longer; the fatigue, the sadness, the anxiety, and the impatience increase in ours, and more and more are the people who are "unknowing how to face the situation." And we were pointing that out in September when this government was to be formed; we were repeating it recently, in the debate on the amendments as a whole, and we are repeating it today: never before is it impossible for so many people to predict their future. And that is why it is more important than ever to offer firm and clear answers from the institutions. That is certainly the most important mission of this Government, that of providing certainty. And in this severe situation, the citizens must feel that we are working to guard and protect the rulers and representatives of the people, and that we are here in the government or in opposition. It's time for answers to give clear answers, as we've repeated over and over again. It requires a government to protect and use all our collective resources, all of our citizens, all of them. Un Gobierno decidide a abomentar, activa y utilzar los recursos colactivos parateger a todas y cada una de las peoples. And budgets are a tool for that. They are not the sum of better or worse facts; they measure the initiative of a government within a concrete reality and before a people. A tool that sets out how to respond to here and now, and that marks, or does not, a determined direction in addressing the challenges we face as a country. We are all conscious that we have a great challenge before us, and we all agree that we are in a quite unusual position, and we have said from the EH Collector, that we are in a crisis which has not yet been witnessed by COVID-19, and at the same time that the necessary social and economic and ecological indicators which showed that they have to change before have been accelerated. The present and the future are at stake now. Our country is at a crossroads. We see multiple complex tensions in every way. That's why it's essential to read the strategic dimension of the moment, because it's not just a matter of answering the health emergency. It's crucial to realize that the decisions we're making now will condition the generations that follow. And the size of the challenge makes direct interactions to politicians and, properly speaking, public politics. Osasuna bermatzearekin batera, ziurtasunak eta jendea babesteko apreazko neurriak hartu eta, aldi berean, etorkizuna prestationen hasi behar gara, eraldaketa-a historiko honetan herri gisa aurkezten zaizkigun errornkei aurre egiteko polika publikoei ikuspegi berri bat aplikatuz, pandemic honek eta aurreko krisiak, aurreko krisiak ere, utzitako irakaspenetatik, epe ertain eta lucerako begirada horrekin. Addressing the challenges by applying a new approach to public policies from the lessons left by this pandemic, but also from the previous crisis, with a medium- and long-term look, as I said. And there is the difference between this government and what we and we are defending: the government's budget proposal and the proposal that we have transferred to the government. And the debate is very simple, and it is not strategy – this is not a question of strategy – it is a question of models. And the diatribe is very simple: either we return to the previous scenario that has brought us here, that is, to the same policies that favor the reproduction of capital, or we make policies to ensure the sustainability of life. A model that allows to build projects of a life worthy of being lived for all and for all. Kolapsora haraman eredu kontinuista edo eraldaketa bat posetzen duen eredua. We offered it to you in the direction of transformation, a more integrated proposal. And besides, we believe that it's very logical and consistent with the arrangement of this year's budgets, yes, but with an offer to agree with the columns of medium and long-term change. Therefore our proposal had three columns: the budget, the European funds, and the sum of money. The three-Axis proposal. As for money, to answer efficiently and justly, it is absolutely necessary to add the revenues, and to ensure that we shall not always pay the bills of the eternal crisis, and that we will not leave too much burden to future generations. Under you, in your own words, we'll have to spend more than 2022 in the next year because the tax collection will hardly recover what it has lost this year. 9,8% less have been collected, 1,520 million Euro less. Thus the expenditure and the effects of this descent do not correspond to the general expected income. For this purpose we are obliged to do so, with 2,2 with that which Spain has imposed upon us, and also the chances of the use of the prince are there. And, yes, Ms. Pérez, we plan this one in our partial corrections. But even at this moment we set up two more precise and effective propositions, which are necessary to us; on the one hand, to establish the "COVID Rate," and to arrive at a form of taxation. Today, we don't know yet, and we don't understand what the real reason is to oppose the "COVID rate" proposal. This isn't a marxist planning finder. No son cambios revolucionaris, señor Subau, la aperlicion de una ratio excepcional en momentos excepcionals; esto es feeldo común. Isn't it logical, isn't it reasonable to demand a greater effort for those who have increased the profits by this crisis? Isn't that logical? He's not revolutionary. OCDE, Bank Mundiala, FMI, Confebas, have been shown in this direction; and in other countries of Europe have they placed extraordinary rates as a reply or measure to ease the descent of money in a short time, and here, why not? Who's going to harm? What's the real reason? Or the question in another way: For whom? We still don't understand the strong opposition of this as yet. And we'd set this up for you, and this is for the COVID rate, it's possible and realistic if you want to. We also proposed to you that we should arrive at a form of taxation, which we believe is indispensable to a deep form of taxation based on public discussion, to establish more progressive, more effective, and more just policy of taxation, to compare the contractors of Arba, Bizkai, and Gipus with the Union of Europe. And you, Monsieur Subaz, know there is a margin: The tax on the societae in 2007 has descended from 14,8 to 8.4% of 2019. In the last decade, that's six points down. " Solo cuatro países europeos reaudan menos que la Comunidad Autónoma Vasca con el impoesto sobre sociedes." How many multinationals, the multinational here, don't pay nearly a tax on the profits? How many? So there's the margin. And, you know, there's no lack of margins here, here is will and decision to do that. Because the question is: How do you pay the bill? How do you pay the bill you left on COVID? And you paid the bill, who paid it, you said it's not time to talk, "que no toca." Claro que toca, claro que toca empezar a hablar de esto. And we clearly see that this crisis requires collective labour and effort, and must be derived from solidarity and reproach, and that is why those who have more to pay for it must pay more. Dot. Another matter, in our integrated proposition, was the most fundamental of Europe. I said it was a first example thing. We offer public support to decent life and support for a model that will be human security, a refuge of human scale, based on the care of Exod. And that's why we have to use the European funds. We are on the porch of a new age or age. We're moving on. It's the global challenge. So it can't be a cirripede of government. This is why we point out to you a permanent frame of the European nation's union funds. Once again in our offer about the ancients, it is logical. Europar funtsen proyektu strategizeen leheneste-ariketa bat Egypt proposed you say Madril eta Bruselako galbahe-prozesuaren aurrean hauen defenses a batatua Egypto, herri gisa arituz. Baina hemen ere, Unamunok berber Diario an idatzita utzi zuen bezala, Gobernuak erakutsi du "that hidden delight in myself, that meddling. " Drink buruarekin beer, norabidean beer, interestekin beer. "Fiscality, it doesn't touch." "European funds, not applicable". And let us move on to the third block of our approach: proposal for improvement through amendments to the 2021 budget proposal. Jaurlaritzak Aurrekontu hauek aurrekontu zituenean genuine adriariane aurreikuspen bone positiboekin, positiboegiekin, egindako aurrekontu beat zeal. Sailburuen agerraldietan horrella azierazi zitzaigun, nolabaiteko normaltasun-egoera bata itzuliko ginela 2021eko lehenengo six hilabetean, wishful thinking. Aurreikuspen okerra, begi-bistakoa denez. A budget, the one you presented, designed for the final straight of the pandemic. But the data shows that, unfortunately, the health crisis and its consequences are going to widen and, therefore, we should have a budget, a tool that is in line with reality. One example: In the budgets of 2020, when no one could predict pandemia, it took 35,5% of the budget to health. In 2021, we're in the middle of a pandemia of a 35,6 TEXT point1. In education, Mr. Bilaritz, 2020, 25%; 2021, 25%. More precisely: 2020, 25,0, 2021, 25,0. Claviado! You too! And in between pandemys, exactly the same as in the budgets that have been planned for 2021. And this is a consequence of the erratic approach that year after year, that year after year, have made the consecutive governments of Urkullu. It is not a problem of the budgetary framework, it is not even a problem of economic viability. The problem is that the needs of citizenship, the needs of this country do not fall within the budgetary framework of this Government. Realities were diotene aurrekontuak, egoerari, koiunturari, diotene aurrekontuak behar ditugu. Ez betiko lehentasunak dituzten aurrekontuak, ez orine arteko elementu berdinak jasotzen dituzten aurrekontuak, ez gada irrealitari weretzuteko gabezia eta hutsune handiekin jaio ziren aurrekontuak. Next Monday is two months, next Monday, two months since the Governing Council gave the green light to the budget draft that is to be approved here today. And as I said, as early as December 15, 2020, these were not very realistic or realistic. And today, 11 February 2021, what has happened and what has changed between the approval in the Governing Council of the draft budget and the foreseeable approval in the Basque Parliament of these budgets by 2021? For – apart from 58 days, 1,392 hours – it turns out that in Osakidetza, on December 15, we had 443 people admitted. Today, we have more than 712 people admitted, 61% more. On December 15, we had 99 people in ICU; on February 10, 165 people were admitted, 40% more. That is, a worrying increase in hospital pressure, in addition to the closure of the operating room, delayed surgery, and poor primary care. Hezkuntzan, Bildarratz jauna, on December 15 we had 64 classrooms closed; on February 10, just a few days ago, 188 classrooms closed. 194% more closed classrooms than when these budgets were presented with forecasts today. In hotels, the municipalities affected by the closure of the hotel: on 14 December there were 10 municipalities, 4% of the population was affected. Until yesterday, 81 municipalities, 75% of the population. In employment, ERTE: from 15 December to 9 February, 283 ERTE submitted, 1,233 workers affected. Unemployment, in December 2020, 129,240 people; 1,490 people plus as of January 2021. Income guarantee income, December 2020, 56,210 collectors; in January 2021, 57,911. 1,761 more collectors. This is the reality, these are the data, after, as I said, 58 days, 1,392 hours. And if the budgets just come forward were already obsolete, these budgets are now expired. Eta erralitate honi weretzuteko zuzenketa partzialak aurkeztu ditugu eta gaurkorako, henera, erserbatu. Behin eta berriro errepikatu du Azpiazu sailburuak –eta baita ére, gaur Pérez andreak egin du, Gobernua sustangatzen duten taldeen ordezkariek– "beharra izanez gero" aktibatuk zirela baliabide gehiago. That "if necessary, more resources would be activated." What do you mean, "if necessary"? What has to happen to consider that it is "necessary" to activate more resources? Or perhaps the problem is that the perception of the "necessary" depends on preserving the interests of those and those of always? Zer gehiago gertatu behar da? Ez to the dago beharrik? And you've had the chance at this time that some of the statements of i.e., i., i.......... Why, just as Mr. "Jardillo" says, is there not a good proposition? Is there not a good idea or an opposition? But no, not a single one. As was the case with the European funds: Only one of the resolutions 96. This time, from 1.289 corrections, zero. And you had the chance, as I said, to pick up the budget projects for 2021 through our corrections. through those we have brought to the vote to-day through our proceedings. For to strengthen the system of health in our conduct, to answer the reality described, with the materials and human resources necessary to prevent the virus (others: tracker, researcher... ), we have proposed to increase the group of laborers. To approach the horizon, to perform the sifting of the horizon, by strengthening the human teams in the interrogation campaign, but also by other necessary operations, so as not to be obliged to abandon them. And, of course, it's essential for us to get our first attention together. Do you really think it's enough to answer the problems that have been planned in budgets with 33 nurses and 19 factors? Or is it logical that I'm afraid this I'm afraid to hire less people according to the last data we've received? And the great Pepe Mújica said that "first we will invest in education, second we will invest in education and third we will invest in education". But I also add: we talk a lot at this time and in this context, and at this juncture, about the climate crisis, about the collapse, about what it means for our planet to leave a better planet for our sons and daughters, but we don't talk so much about leaving better sons and daughters, better people for our planet. And what is needed for this is to strengthen education. Eta gure zuzenketen bitartez ére izan duzue aukera hezkuntza-systeman eragiteko. We see how the situation is in the schools these days, and it is obvious that it is necessary to perform an additional effort, to descend the other radishes, to increase and stabilize the planilla. This I do not believe that any one will doubt, that it would undoubtedly have a positive influence on him to compensate for the effects which are produced by pandemia. And how many of the students are obliged to stay at home, how many of the twenty-four thousand computers the Board of Education has distributed? For this we propose to you the account of 50 million euros, in order to answer this fact, but this also does not answer. You've also had the chance to strengthen basic social services by doubling the annual investment into 28 million euros, because the development of the public Euscal system in the Social Services, the redefs, redimentsion, or strength of rediments, is almost irresistible, because the moment is the moment to put an end to the development of the Euscal System of the Social Services. And, no doubt, it's time for the municipal community to strengthen public services and to give a new centralization to social industry. This requires adaptations of size, and such a means of strengthening the resources of the size, and you have not even provocationd our correction. You have also had a chance to ease the access to incomes, to autonomous workers, workers in a state of ERTE, and workers of low salary, to raise the greatest stroke of the pandemary, and protect those who are in absolute uncertainty. That, too, is not true. Or you've also had the chance to start the anti-complexal program which is located at 4%, taking 20 million euros corrections from the underlying young men. To face the structureal preparation that young people suffer, to facilitate their access to social employment, and to provide support in the production of their own acquisitions, to put on the new subsidies of the younger to promote the mass of resistance. But no. And we've created a repertivation complex, yes, in the contacts of the madhouse that hasn't yet come to many people, in the company of those who haven't yet arrived in 2020 to compensate for the damaged sectors that had gone 100 million in the budget, but this budget only previews for 2021. Another example of what's in caducated before. From the budget funds in 2020, we've arranged the 200 million-dollar traspas to these 2021 budgets to protect hosting, trade, culture and industrial culture workers, and the dramatic situation in which the Turks live. Azpiazu berak esan zuen, zuk zeuk, 300 milio eabiliko zituela Gobernuak 2020an age, beharrezkoa balitz, 200 milio eabiliko zenituztela, bathe ez zenituzten eabili. Eta, beraz, horiek gutxienez boldaude. And the state of General Treasury at 31 December 2020 is 2.5 billion, so we believe that the remnant is going to be high, the remnant is going to be very high, and we believe that they are resources that need to be activated because there is a real need right now. Eta guretzat hori beharrezkoa da, baina, berriro, well, we're in the "if necessary". It has therefore become clear that the debate is not about the feasibility of the proposals we have put forward, but about the reality and necessity of those proposals at this time. The Finance Advisor owns his silence, but he is imprisoned for his words, because over and over again he has been repeating the "if necessary" – the representative of the Socialist Group has also done so and the representatives of the Basque Nationalist Party as well. "The cost could be increased if necessary." There's the key, in the different perception of needs here and now. Finally, as far as the amendments are concerned, and as far as their nature is concerned, I would like to say that our proposals are going through feminism, because the majority of people in residences and women workers are women, the majority of low-wage workers are women, the majority of those affected by ERTE are women, the majority of those who complete their pension with RGI are women, all victims of macho violence receiving RGI are women, the majority of single-mary families receiving RGI are women. Mundua feminismotik pentsatzearen ondorio zuzena dira gure zuzenketa-proposamenak. These, in general, are the corrections which we set up. Actable corrections, realistic planning, in response to the situation today, the real situation. But it is clear that from the beginning you will not have done much to me, if the majority be absolute, although it is intended to represent the contrary. The budget center began to predict the settlement, but the government hasn't made it. There must have been issues, that was guaranteed from the beginning, but the government, intent on extending its agreements to itself, at least if they were honest, has failed. You're all alone. But, furthermore, as the weeks pass by, it shows that it is neither intention nor design to offer the opposition to agreement nor the least place in the positions of determination. This Government has not been willing to change any of its budget proposals since the beginning, and so today we are witnessing a mere further procedure, a further procedure for the approval of budgets which have, as I said, expired, budgets surpassed by reality itself. Budgets designed by a well-accommodated majority of Parliamentarians, who are legitimate, and are a parliamentary majority to whom they come day after day to justify many of their actions in addition, but it is a majority that is not feeling well, that they are not knowing how to manage well. And this is to the detriment of the people of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. That I have not been able to add to this budget project anyone but themselves, is another symptom. The failure to approve or approve a single amendment of the 1,289 tabled by the opposition is yet another symptom. And that incapacity is a problem, as that mismanaged majority is leading them to a somewhat self-complacent and acritic attitude, to the point that this Government is overtaken by reality and, as a result, has drawn up a budget, as I said, overtaken by reality itself. This government has a whole majority, and it is quite clear, and you let us see it over and over and over again, in public opinions, in commissions, in controls, in all the usual collections... You keep us clear. And you also use it, and it's legitimate, but the government is weak. He has an absolute majority, but the government is weak. His weaknesses are more manifest than ever, and he flatters them. And he's not capable, he's not capable of doing this government so often, too much, the "fucking" thing he's talking about. He's not capable. He is incapable of defending popular interests. For the ability to decide between the lessons left behind by the legemand, and the need of independence, is this: how to confide, move, insert, protect, owen, restore, or distribute directly the funds of Europe. It's a long list. As a nation without a state, it has been shown that it is necessary that new instruments and functions should be advanced to us, and that, in order to penetrate into them, to preserve people and economy more and better, to create a new political state. A new political status that equips us with more and better tools to be able to decide and respond to people's needs. The pandemic has further highlighted this need, but that need was already very latent, because things did not go so well before the pandemic, with an increasingly asymmetrical distribution of wealth, which condemns broad social sectors to a progressive reduction in expectations or, in other words, to settle with less and less: the "aspirational decline" that we mentioned in the previous debate and in which the Urkullu Government is installed with worrying placidity. Eta aurrekontu hauek Honen island was badira. The consequences are obvious, the citizens live their own fur: The chronic inability to anticipate COVID-19's health funds, improvisation and lack of planning, controlfall, fatigue and frustration, the mutations and strikes of public and private sectors, without any response, and the confusion and anger of society. Too many symptoms, a sign that there is not enough effort, due to a government which is less and less contented or fatigued. At the end of the investigation, we accepted the strategic nature of the budgets of 2021. In the unusual state we saw the need to do the whole unusual political exercise, but unfortunately we didn't see the fun of that strategic exercise that state requires, we haven't seen it with the will to speak in these parameters. The budget that he'll respond to reality, the situation, the budget that will respond to the settlement, not the budgets that have eternal prior priorities, not the budgets that have received the same elements before, not the budgets that don't respond to reality. Amaitzeko, gaur, termino parlementarioetan, Gobernuak irabaziko du, baina jendeak galduko du. Abenduan, aurrekontu ez nahikoak ziren; urtarrilean, zaharkituak, age otsailean, kadukatuak, iraungiak. Today, in parliamentary terms, the government will win, but it will lose people, with insufficient budgets in December, obsolete in January, and expired in February.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u12	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Eubertarians. Mrs. Bergeralbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. The situation is difficult, social and economic, and the government places the means of resisting this situation on the table through these budgets to protect people and encourage the economy in multiple sectors. And he who does not want to see it, and he who does not want to see it, and he who does not want to see it, and has a foolish criticism, with an argument of old economics, ideological patterns, and adochrinals, does not behave sincerely with very touching discourses. And in order to use the challenge there is enough for us to take a look at the international situation. The United Kingdom, the first industrialized country, which first comes out of crisis: The United States, which has afterwards been a liberal democracy, is the oldest democracy, and then Europe. And no, things don't happen by chance. But now we have another situation ahead of us: People who do not have the same conception of freedom and China anticipate us. And not only this, but Europe is surrounded by conflict and crisis: On the Baltic, Gibraltar, Biellarus, Ukraine, the Middle East, Magreben, or Sahel. And besides, the strategic context. Europe must face other crises which tend more and more rapidly: financial, cylindrical, panademics, bombings, information manipulation, Chinese investments in infrastructure, technology, and assets, to provide with basic goods, beginning with health. So we're creating new challenges, new situations every day, and more confused, which don't remain in the simple union of liberalism or Communism. And Euskadin is the same: we need solutions from the union of new states and challenges. We need a more global and sistemic perspective. However, the opposition, even though we have the severe international challenge we can't attract TRUE. What can we do? The occasion, and so said Mr. Estarrona from the EH Collector, and he said to-day, but he said at the Ogres and Presumption Board last week: "Se treatment de unos presupuestos diseño una policón acomada por mayoría" y "un syntoma de ello es no testor nibienda la oposicion de la la las proximadente." The members of the EH Collectors, you have introduced 36 corrections by an example, which you didn't even defend on the board. We, whether or not to reject corrections, explained arguments in every section, in every part, in every part. We've refused the amendments of the past, but always with arguments, as you saw at the committee. But you, in this complete and challenging context, deny to 12442 million health, education, and social protection. We say 'no' to your amendments, which, except for the Basque People-Citizens Group, no group defended section by section in the committee, and, without prejudice to the fact that you did not defend your proposals, we argue our position, and I repeat, your proposals, to a greater or lesser extent, are already covered in the budget presented. It is worth saying that we do not support your amendments, when you do not even make a statement, nor a defence, nor an explanation in the relevant parliamentary committee. You, without any argument beyond having a different political agenda, will say no to 12,442 million for health, education and social policies. That is why I will insist and give you some examples which we have already shown and which show, beyond a few acronyms, that they are good budgets to get out of this difficult situation. They're asking for more rescue plans so there's no big ones forgotten. For this Government there is no great forgotten; yes, there are great ones affected by the crisis. And in these sectors we are trying to influence with the new programme of financial support for SMEs and self-employed people, an example that this government, since the beginning of the first wave of this pandemic, has always been accompanying and helping SMEs and self-employed people, but, yes, without stigmatizing large companies. Euskadi has a business fabric of SMEs, of working people, with which we connect and to whom we will dedicate our efforts. Our government plan, which envisages the strategic plan for industrial development and internationalisation, which will include a specific programme for SMEs, to strengthen the renovating machinery plans, a clear bet for industry 4.0 with roots in Euskadi. However, the People-Citizens Group, on the basis of its partial amendments, proposes to create expenditure, for example, in the wine and livestock sector, when, to remind them, such aid already exists, such as, for example, Ardoinb or Fomento Basque Wine. Or in the promotion and dissemination of Rioja Alavesa wines in the capitals, when these supports will already be given through Basque Wine, aids that seek to support the promotion in the internal market – then it is curious, uh, that you talk about clientelism. Nor is EH Bildu very far from it. It is only necessary to read the contributions of EH Bildu to the budget proposal of Navarre, where actions are planned in municipalities that are nominally identified and that they all happen to be governed by mayors of EH Bildu. Gehiago, cheers. They demand more spending on health, when this budget already envisages an increase of 236 million within the negligible figure of 4,183 million euros for Health. With almost 70 million euros for investments in infrastructure of Osakidetza, actions in hospitals and OSI, primary health care centers, mental health network, Basque Center for Transfusions and Human Fabrics, cellular therapy equipment, remodeling of surgical blocks... And that is true, with a clear vaccination schedule, with the means to implement this plan, because yes, Osakidetza has the means envisaged in this budget. The main problem around vaccination is the lack of vaccines and the slowness or pace at which doses reach each territory; Osakidetza has demonstrated that it has the capacity and all the resources to cope with a campaign. I remind you that almost 600,000 people were vaccinated against influenza in two months (53 % more than usual), and the campaign ended with total normality. We're all tired of the pandemic and the professionals in Osakidetza too. For this reason, since March, an emotional support program is under way for them and for them, extending to patients and family members, to help in this situation of uncertainty and stress. Isn't this putting people at the centre of our policies? Questioning our commitment to people, and hence their unfavorable vote on this budget, is at least surprising, when they are budgets aimed at social protection, at people, at 78%. And it's always been that way. The figures speak for themselves, but they are not only figures. Euskadi has a public and universal health, of which not many countries in the world can boast. Take a look at our neighbours in Europe and compare. Public and universal, but also quality. And it is not only my opinion, the latest polls of last Friday, February 2021 say: Osakidetza's attention is valued at 7.6; the clarity of the information at 5.5, being 40% above 7; the assessment of the Basque Government in managing the crisis at 5.7, compared to the suspension of the Spanish Government (4.4) and the European Union (4.9); 61% of the population considers the reliability of the information on vaccines to be "reliable" or "very reliable". Nothing more to say. Faced with the opinion of our citizens, I ask the opposition to respect Osakidetza, the Department of Health and the Basque Government, who, with great effort, are working to improve our health and well-being. Respect and thanks. Third, job. These budgets have the resources to work for quality employment. Inciding on youth unemployment with a match of 13.3 million euros – Lehen Aukera, Reactivate, Youth Guarantee, relief contract, support for return and a long et cetera. It also allocates resources against the wage gap, for inspections that guarantee equality, the promotion of entrepreneurship and women's talent, with 80% of the allocation for new programmes. It also strengthens programmes against gender-based violence; subsidies for women's associations are doubled; programmes to prevent violence against women are promoted up to €300,000, and €400,000 for the development of business equality plans. As recent examples, the impetus between Eudel and Emakunde of the first guide at the state level to guide actions in municipalities to redress the damage caused to surviving women victims and thus ensure their recovery in the community environment. The gender perspective is somewhat cross-cutting in this budget and in the Basque Government. It is curious, in this scenario of placing people at the centre of politics, and in particular women, that Elkarrekin We can propose to remove the expenditure from the Statute of Agricultural and Rural Women. Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita talkek match time zero eurotan ustea proposedzen du. Gehiago, "indurumenean exfortzua ez da nabaria". Is not the recent Plan for the Prevention and Management of Waste 2030 announced by Mrs Tapia, which will involve an investment of EUR 97 million, its objective being to convert 85% of non-hazardous waste into secondary resources and to reduce at least 15% of waste to landfills, with the aim of reducing 30% of waste generated in Euskadi over the next ten years? And in this line, Euskadi Next, whose projects are aimed at the energy-ecological transition by 63%, which exceed 37% marked by Europe. We have a clear commitment to the environment, with a clear reflection on these budgets, and proof of this, the world-wide award of the Basque Government's Green Procurement and Public Procurement Programme, which has succeeded in greening 46% of the purchases of 38 agencies, where the US Council of Leadership in Sustainable Procurement recognizes the Basque Executive as the best administration in this field. Esan's an egg. Eta hemen dauzkazue irispida argi, where it is managed onorrioak. At this point, I am also surprised by Elkarrekin's proposal We can create a heading to subsidise solar energy self-consumption projects, when this aid is already planned through the EVE and with a budget of EUR 6 million. No amendment may have been reserved for this plenary as an indicator of correction in certain areas. Drive to R+D+i, EH Bilduk was xumetzat hartzen duena. We are aware of the challenge we face and that we must make an effort to be more competitive. Dago clay hori. And aware of this reality, these budgets are endowed with an increase in R & D & i expenditure by 9.7%. We have our industrial policy; we have the Science and Innovation Plan; our clear commitment by increasing R & D+i support by 6% annually with the aim of being the lever for companies to bet on R & D+i; we have the occupation and concern to be more competitive; a commitment to internationalisation – 23 million for this – to bring innovation to the last mile, reaching SMEs. And for this, very illustrative examples are the calls of 2021 for the R+D+i programme worth 215 million euros, framed in an R+D+i spending budget of 535 million. And all this with the talent in mind. As an example last day 2, the Bikaintek programme, a support programme for the development of R & D projects that will facilitate the recruitment of more than 70 highly qualified people, will improve the competitiveness of businesses in the Basque Country. Also women's qualifications. See, for example, research projects in Osakidetza, where 65% are women. And more: support for families. Gentlemen of the Basque People-Citizens Group, between the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy and certain scholarships from the Department of Education to me add 164 million euros. In addition, however, they should not obviate in their calculations the existence of another series of items with a direct impact on families, such as, inter alia, the GIR and the supplementary housing benefit, which amount to 460 million; the aid for free rental housing for 1 million; the economic benefits linked to the subjective right to housing, 5 million; and the consolidation and extension of aid for the recruitment of children and girls, increasing the amount up to 5.9 million. Aid to deal with the social consequences of the pandemic, with an additional budget of 29 million, including an additional 15 million for social emergency aid; an additional 6.6 million for grants from the Inor atzean utzi gabe fund. Aid, these, AES and also RGI, help to combat energy poverty. And after arguing our position against your amendments and following these budget pills, do you not believe that they are budgets to be able to deal with a complicated situation? do you believe that they are not brave? Using Mr Gordillo's question so repeated, "are these budgets not good?". I think you will agree with me that these are reasonable budgets to help deal with this crisis. That is why, I understand, they do not question the substance of this budget and only pose more expenditure for what the Basque Government has already planned, without assessing the explanations given and without considering that, as has been repeated on numerous occasions, and as it has been implemented in 2020, if it were necessary to increase certain items, to increase aid to sectors affected by the pandemic, to Health and to Education, will be done, but not only will be done, has always been done and will be done. Therefore, we are not afraid to be "taken by our words." Guk esan eta egin Egyptian dugu. This budget has been prepared on the basis of an estimate with the forecast of current expenditure, but that does not mean that it is immobile. In this mistaken presumption, Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu continue with their leitmotiv: more spending, more debt and more taxes on the rich. Recurring reason that doesn't surprise us either. When the Basque Government allocated the surplus to financially sustainable investments or debt amortization, they criticized the Basque Government for implementing austerity policies, although curiously it was that its criticism did not contemplate the need for compliance with the Stability Act which, by the way, Elkarrekin is still in force We can in the State Government, or that the budgets submitted by EH Bildu strictly complying with the Stability Act in those municipalities or outlaws governed by them would not have been qualified as austere in the past. Now, given the economic conjuncture and thanks to the agreement adopted by the Basque Government in the Joint Committee on Economic Concert, in which new reference limits for debt and deficit were agreed and in which the external parliaments are recognised their capacity for indebtedness, which also gives oxygen to the municipalities, and now that the Basque Government, in implementing the expansion policy, is in debt until it reaches the limits agreed in the Joint Committee, they are no longer austere budgets, but they are continuing. By the way, Elkarrekin We can taldeari. Bat. If we have reached the limit – let them recalculate – as the budget is drawn up exhausting the deficit target. And two. The Stability Act is not repealed, but the law must be enforced, even if there is more freedom. Don't confuse people. We don't self-impose anything. You know better than anyone how the law works, and the Stability Act, I repeat, remains in force. Therefore, "dogmatics in austerity", no, what we do do is face reality as it comes and establish economic policies according to that situation, but you, regardless of the situation, always with the same motto: more and more expenditure, always more. How is the phrase, Mr. Otero: "When the collection goes well, mezcal, and when the collection goes badly, also mezcal." Ba hori, denok nahiko genituen baliabide gehiago, bathe egora zaila da. Desio guztiak ez will say betetzen, nahiz eta onak izan. Lehentasunak jarri behar will say. Beharrak handiak will say age baliabideak, nahi eta nahi ez, mugatuak. That is why a classic definition of the economy is the administration of scarce resources; thus, while the available products are finite, the needs are infinite. But here it seems that the classic definition of economy does not fall; it is as if in our electoral programme, I think, we say that in order to build a worthy country it would be necessary to create 40,000 jobs in the public sector without any prior analysis of needs. EH Bildu taldea, eta beste alderdiak ere, We can taldea, adibidez, the question is not how much, but how: first organization and an analysis of needs; then, how many posts and where. For this purpose, this Government first proposes the law of bodies and scales and then the OPEs announced for 10,000 places in all sectors. Our party is not to make cards castles; we are more to build on solid foundations and work with rigour, certainty and honesty, without creating false expectations. In this scenario of global crisis, of global conflicts, it is you who without any argument, well, yes, with some, but false or false, and only with sterile criticism, say no to these Budgets: 12,442 million for Health, Osakidetza, for Education, for innovation and digitisation, for women, for employment, for GIR, for supplementary housing provision, for care. You say no to all this, to everything, it is curious, even to the title of the law. Well, with one exception: EH Bildu, that his great contribution to these budgets has been to abstain from voting on the title of the law. It is you who did not want to go in to improve these budgets. The Government has negotiated with you so that political parties with less representation can translate your proposals into the presented draft, without obviously implying a break in our model and a paradigm shift. And so it has been, for example, with the Elkarrekin Podemos group, with whom there has been a sincere negotiation, without simulations, but which, after several meetings, has ended without success. From the Basque Nationalist Party we want to thank again the Elkarrekin group We are ready to negotiate, even if they have not finally accepted the proposals offered by the Basque Government. We are confident that this will be a first step towards securing support on other issues. Since it is you who have admitted and appreciated the effort and good offer made in the budget negotiation, why so uneven speeches in this rostrum and in the negotiating meetings? It is a good way to go, and other parties in this House should follow their example. Although it was time to step forward and leave your gregarious stance. It was positive to launch the message of broader pacts and a magnificent opportunity for the agreement, to put political vertigo aside. But it has not been so with the EH Bildu groups and the Vasco Popular-Citizens group, who have self-excluded themselves from the negotiation at the first meeting. The Basque People-Citizens Group almost recorded the amendment as a whole. On one thing, we agree: Mr Barrio in last week's Committee on Finance commented that there was a lack of negotiation. I cannot agree more: there was a clear lack of will on the part of the Basque People-Citizens. They did not want to negotiate and presented the amendment directly to the whole. I don't know what your story is, but these are the facts, Mr. Gordillo. And if we add that you do not like EITB, the Basque euskera or the international delegations of the Basque Government, which bring so much value to our industrial, economic and social fabric, we will never find ourselves here. The reduction and rethinking of the Basque and certain entities goes against our raison d'être. Or use to justify their amendments the percentage of implementation, e.g. in Education, with the execution of expenditure 31 October. In Education. That's not knowing how the Department of Education works. If, as you indicate, you have worked so hard, your amendments would not be the same as in previous years. I therefore believe that we should work with less pride and more respect. The same is true of EH Bildu, who went to the negotiating meeting with the Basque Government without any proposal, that is, with his hands in his pockets. And it is after certain days when they email their proposal to the Basque Government, that is, minutes before making it public at a press conference. Is this a sincere way to negotiate? Without meeting with the Basque Government, are they going to report on their proposal at a press conference? It is also curious that the text of your proposal is virtually identical to the amendment as a whole. Would it not be that they had drafted the amendment as a whole and needed a few days to give it the form of a proposal? But it's not just about forms; it's about attitude. Compare your attitude here, in Euskadi, to your attitude in other very close territories. They put forward a proposal in the amount of EUR 429 million in order not to reach an agreement in Euskadi. A document setting out red lines on taxation, European funds and a rescue fund. Why in Euskadi do not want to negotiate without red lines and, instead, do they do in Navarre or in the state? Why do they keep attitudes and positions so uneven here and in Navarre or in the state? In Madrid, for the 20,5 million euros, he was protected by the Spanish Prevenecess. Well, it's not because it's 20,5, 10 million CDs, and then it's 10 million for the rest of Spain, including the Basque Esquidian. So specifically to the Spanish Prevenals for EH Collect protection for 10,5 million. Seeing what I did in Madrid, I'm going to Navarre. Navarro 9,4 million support the budgets. You're satisfied with a studio or a report about the prosecutority. And about European funds, nothing. Euskadin, we've just said on the prosecutor's side that a tax prosecutor is going to take a look at European progressiveity and it doesn't work for you. EH Collector wants the reform attorney now, while he wants the COVID rate, yes or no. Eukadin, European funds, monographics and explanations, more than I would like, in which EH Collect requires only hubs with social agents, i.e. to work with you, to make contrasts, and to have a political frame for discussion. As Madame Kortah said, "Because four eyes or six see more than two." And in front of that, you also create a document, which is very neat and pretty, but it must be said that a lot of purposes are agreed with the "Esquekad" of the Government. And not only that: We don't know who you've hired to make a document with, but we don't know who you've been dealing with, who you're dealing with, except with EH. It must be said that he knew the document through the news that we got on your website and you haven't even sent it to the government. "Si exigen diálogo social y pollítico al Gobierno, al menos believers, en la confección de su documento, deberían con ejemplo." This draft budget incorporates a management model of sufficient transparency, guarantee and information flexibility to ensure that the exploitation and maximisation of European funds has rigorous parliamentary monitoring and control, with Basque public administrations fully managing their planning, as well as relational and economic management with the State. Some funds, by the way, which were approved yesterday in the European Parliament, but which have not yet been approved by the Council of the European Union. Funds for which the Spanish State has not yet submitted its recovery plan, not even its governance. But Euskadi does have its own program, which you know: Euskadi Next. We are prepared that, at the moment when we have more certainty, the resources that come to us will be integrated into our budget. By the way, Estarrona jauna, do not say that only one resolution was supported in the June 16 monograph. That's the result, but we, not being the proposing group, get close to having sex with you and the answer was "no." Ez barrerik egin! Badakizu ezezkoa daukagula erdibidekoak lortzeari. Beraz, dena azaldu behar yes. Hau guztia ikusita, eskertuko nizueke and rarazoiren bat dagoen hemen 429 milioiren balioko zuzenketak aurkezteko, mugiezinak eta lerro gorriekin, noski, eta, aldiz, Madrilen 20.5 milioigatik, kakotx artean, eta Nafarroan 9.4 milioigatik babestu dituzuen Aurrekontuak, inolako konpromiso polikorik eskatu gabe ez fiskalitate-arloan ez europar funtsen arloan. In the Basque Country, EH Bildu requires 429 million in its proposal, unremovable and with red lines, and yet in Madrid they support the Budgets for 20.5 million, in quotes, without talking about governance in European funds, and in Navarre support for 9.4 million, without also demanding political commitments in fiscal matters – they conform with a mere study – nor requirements in the field of European funds, and even less, without demanding the permanent political framework for debate, as demanded by the Basque Government. To demand red lines from this Basque Government and not to demand them from governments whose existence, stability and sustainability depend on self is an inexplicable political slowness, unless the pursuit of such a course is another form of revenue. In the reply they could use as an argument their lack of agreement, because they have already done so on some occasion, that Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups have an absolute majority in this Parliament – the famous roller. However, this argument loses its meaning if it is repaired to the previous legislature, when the Basque government needed the support of EH Bildu because it did not have a majority, and the type of opposition of EH Bildu was identical, losing opportunities such as the frustrating and frustrated negotiation for the 2019 Budgets. In view of the above, I am really looking forward to hearing the reason why the opposition has said "no" to these Budgets. Has your aim been to harm the government? The worse, the better? "Kalean use age etxean otso" leloa praktikan jartzen zabiltzate? I'm sure they'll use any excuse to justify their immobile stance. We can use the breach of the 2020 agreement, which, in advance, its level of compliance was answered in time and form according to parliamentary deadlines. Not a day later. And while the level of compliance or non-compliance with the contents is a value judgment, you know that they are reasonably met. But, besides, they have a very different measuring rod in Navarre and here. In Navarre, being a government, nothing happens if the 2020 agreements are not scrupulously complied with. And I read this in EH Bildu's agreement for the naval budgets of 2021, "since it was not possible for the government to implement it during 2020", because the same proposals are introduced in the 2021 agreement. Of course, so much understanding, so much flexibility, so much magnanimity is unthinkable in the Basque Autonomous Community. The People-Citizens Group will use that we have not complied with the agreement on tax reform, that I repeat, that it is, or that we have not included the word "virus" in the articulated text, that advance you that the detail of expenses includes an entire program of COVID and the memory includes justifications of pandemic and COVID. The budget is not only the articulated text, but also the set of documents that make up it. It is ridiculous to say that because we do not put the name of a virus in the articulated text, we are in the presence of a continuous budget. And EH Bildu, what reason will he use? We have already ruled out a few reasons. Do we not share a political agenda, that our political objectives are different? I must tell you that I have reviewed the comparison of programmes which Mr Lehendakari delivered to you at your meetings last November and I note that there are many points which coincide, so I assume that this will not be the reason for your lack of will for the agreement either. It may be, and Mrs Iriarte already said in this Parliament: "This is the time to overcome the narrow political game and to act as a people to activate collective intelligence at this crucial moment". Will the lack of activation of collective intelligence be the reason for the "no" to these budgets? On one thing I agree, to put aside the dirty political game; but not that collective intelligence is not activated. EH Bildu, collective intelligence was activated on July 12th and decided and bet on our model. If they took on and respected the people's decision, I think it could help them to put aside the political games. Honestly, I would like us all to work together, rowing in the same direction, without excuses and barren criticism. The situation requires it, although, if they do not perceive it at this juncture, little future I wish you well. In any case, I would like to be wrong and to have, at least in the near future, meeting points, because the Basque agenda is not built like this. Last Friday, Mr Otero said, in relation to the European funds, that to go to Madrid we should start by being strong here. And that reminded me of the Basque agenda. When you put aside EH Bildu's agenda, umbliguism, and want to join our country's goals, the Basque agenda we already have, we will be here, but to work with humility, honesty and sincerity, without its current policy of destruction and confrontation. The possibility of bringing a joint Basque agenda to Madrid begins from Euskadi. How do we do that if they hold an intense dispute against the Basque Government and do not even want to approve the Budgets? I think we should be serious. If we don't reach a minimum agreement in Euskadi, how are we going to have a single agenda? If we started here, we could do something else there. But in the meantime, we will agree on some issues, some things, but from there we must start from here. The problem is that you want to be the alternative. Mr Barrio said that last Wednesday, in the Committee on Finance, or Mrs Iriarte, in the presentation of the amendments to these budgets, indicating that the PNV wanted to exclude EH Bildu from the negotiations "because it knows that it is the only alternative to Jeltzale training". Won't it be the other way around? Is it not that, as EH Bildu is considered the alternative to PNV, he is not willing to agree anything with us, precisely to project that there is an alternative and that you are? Isn't EH Bildu not going to give the Basque Nationalist Party a drop of water until he can get it out of the government? I hope that your refusal to these Budgets will not be a result of a desire to be a government because we are not for these wars; we are to work, to rebuild Euskadi at such delicate times, to join forces and work hard in order to achieve a greener, more digital, more competitive and inclusive Euskadi. We have always had the same values here, in Europe and in Madrid, but I see that we do not all have the same objectives. The desire to do harm to any misfortune or reprehensible fact demonstrates the political project of each formation. What they can't do with a political project, they want to do with the pandemic. Remember the message of the politician of the French radical left, Jean-Luc Mélenchon: "The idea is to be a factor of order rather than a factor of disorder". Construction and dialogue in the face of confrontation; union and consensus in the face of destruction. Misrepresentation. Hori da bidea. I'm just going on for the second round.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. We'll take the answers turn. The Mist team representative. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u15	Good morning to you all again. I will not spend too much time on this round, on my final round, the last round of this democratic posture of the Government to approve the Budgets. It is obvious that the dirty political game is an undeniable fact in this Parliament. We have a clear and different idea of what these accounts are. They have decided everything related to the Next Generation in their duplex of Parliament. They have not made any case to the amendments and proposals of the groups; they have sent them directly to the trash. The serious thing is that this has been the case since we started the legislature, and not just for this matter, but for everyone. They have made use of their absolute majority; a tyranny where it is difficult to see anything other than "that everything remains the same, we are the majority". However, take advantage of this comfortable and loose majority for their parties, for PNV and PES, because the road can be finished for them. Higher towers, in fact, have fallen. This way of doing politics will come to an end. And despite the attempt to silence us, to corner us to silence the more than 18,000 Basques, Vox continues to grow. He has come to stay and the none who practice us to this party – third national political force – the Basques who voted for us and this particular Member of Parliament will go against you, because although I am alone today, in four years I am certain that I will not be. The day will come when they have to be held accountable. You are the Basque Government, the result of the greatest abstention ever seen in elections. In view of the lack of legitimacy, I invite you, above all, to have humility, not to play with this Parliament or with the Basques themselves.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u16	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Euscalo Popular-Ciudadnos's representative. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u17	Thank you, President. Well, well, I see that I haven't made much mistake in forecasting and that the government groups have not missed the opportunity to give lessons to the entire opposition. I love learning; I recognize my mistakes, my limitations, and I love learning. And that is why I have listened with great interest to what the spokespersons of the Basque Nationalist group and the Basque Socialist group have told us, but the truth is that, after listening attentively, I have learned nothing. Is that gonna be my problem? Or will it also be a problem for Mrs. Martínez Grisaleño? Or will it also be a problem for Mr Hernández? Or will it also be Mrs Gorrotxategi's problem? Is it going to be Mr. Estarrona's problem too? Because I believe that they – they will say it in turn – have not learned anything from the lessons they have given us today. I just start with the allusions and then I'll focus a little more on the budget. Let us see, in the case of the criticism that is being made, first it has been criticized, by the Basque Socialist Group – then also the Basque nationalists have shared it – that the amendments that our group has tabled are very similar, very similar to those that were presented to the previous budget. Man, of course, if they have presented the same budget again! Of course, the amendments are similar, if they have basically tabled the same budget. It is therefore normal for a large number of amendments to coincide. However, we have presented up to 800. I insist, 800. Almost 1,300 the entire opposition. Not one of the nearly 1,300 opposition. But, obviously, according to his thesis, this is a problem of the opposition, which is that we do not know what is good for society or for Euskadi, because, as everyone knows, the PNV does know – in this case they share it a little bit with the socialists – that it does know what is good for Euskadi. I, Mrs. Berrojalbiz, really appreciate you very much personally and admire the effort you make to defend, well, what I think is sometimes indefensible, isn't it? I really admire the work you're doing. And I think, I don't know if your boss, but your partner, Mr. Counselor, who isn't here now unfortunately, I think you'll be quite proud. What's going on is that you've been using... It would have been very interesting if this attendance or this plenary would have followed you professors of philosophy and oratory, because you have employed all the fallacies that fit in classical oratory: it is the fallacies ad hominem, the ad verecundiam, ad baculum, et cetera. But, well, I wish some professor would look into it, wouldn't I? It's a shame I can't go any further on this, because, man, that would be very interesting. Basically, his argument is, "Look, these are the best budgets, and the one who doesn't see it is because he doesn't want to see it." Well, then we don't want to see it from the opposition, because, I insist, it is that it has achieved what no one has achieved. It's just that I think she's gonna end up signing Redondo for Sanchez's team, to agree with all the opposition, because that's what she's got. I am also curious that you have referred to the meetings that have been held with the opposition groups by the Government, by the Lord, in this case Azpiazu – who is unfortunately not a pity, I think he would have loved my intervention – but, of course, it is that, as I recall, you were not at the meeting. I was, but you weren't at the meeting. But you are referring, or you have taken for granted certain things that have been said to you. Man, I don't know, I always like to talk about these things with the information that I'm directly responsible for, but, well, that's fine, that's the story that you've wanted to build. What happens is, man, reality, I think, we all know it. They have criticized aid to the wine sector, I think it is the main criticism they have made to us. And then I loved a review they've made of us: they've accused our clientele group. Ostras, telita, uh, fabric! He said "clientism," then, if he wants, he can nuance it, but, come on, they've been ruling Euskadi, either directly or indirectly, oysters, 40 years, right? I think talking about clientelism... That's for another debate I'd love to do. It also calls for respect for Osakidetza. Man, I think we defend Osakidetza, that Osakidetza is not the PNV and Osakidetza is not his advisor either. Osakidetza are all the men and women who make it up and who are struggling to cope with this pandemic and to ensure the health of all Basques. And I think that, assuming responsibility is something we leave for another commission, but to regain the prestige of Osakidetza, as my colleague Laura Garrido says, I think we should start from above, so that the prestige of Osakidetza really recovers, because Osakidetza is not the PNV. Then you tell us about the criticism of our departures to families, don't you? As you can see, I'm doing almost the opposite because as your group opposes the opposition, I'm almost government now, aren't I? And then now I have to defend my proposals for alternatives again, right? But, man, help the families, taking into account how is Haurreskolak's theme, taking into account the concerted school, in short, that saves a lot of money to the public network, and so on, man, I think they can say little there. But, anyway, it's their budgets. No one denies them legitimacy to present budgets. And that's what there is, and those are the ones who are going to approve here today. We have no doubt about that any group of those who are members of the opposition, or of course of those who are members of the Government. Let's talk a little bit about "budget" as such: revenue and expenditure. Then we'll talk about expenses, we'll talk a little bit. But, from income. Of course, the problem with the budget is that it's going to be born obsolete. This budget is going to be born obsolete, almost obsolete, as Mr Estarrona has also said before, if I remember correctly. It's just that he's gonna be born obsolete. Why is he going to be born obsolete? Because the economic forecasts on which the revenue from the budget is going to be valued are that they are obsolete according to the forecasts that are being made by the rest of the institutions that work with the indicators that the Basque Government then assumes. That is, for everyone the economy is going to get worse; instead, Mr Azpiazu's team still maintains his original predictions, which we already told him at the time – I told him – that they seemed too generous to us. Then Airef confirmed it, and then the rest of the institutions are confirming it. Therefore, I believe that a budget that has to start is one thing, which is reality. All the institutions that the Basque Government uses to compare forecasts have updated them, except the Basque Government itself. I'm going to do a little numbering of events. The number of municipalities with closed hotels was zero on 25 September; on 31 December, eight. It's true that they're open right now. But, man, on the subject of hospitality... Here's a collection issue, a collection deficit over what you might expect. The number of workers in ERTE has increased by almost a quarter, 25%. Between September and January, 503 companies were wound up in Euskadi, 503 companies in Euskadi. They're also contributors. Exports fall by 8.2... It's just, anyway. The total aid to the sectors in crisis, look, there has been no change, neither before nor now. Look, the indicators that are used, to make a little prediction, because all this is predictions, Big Data... , it is used more and more, and the truth is that they give more and more on the nail. There is a lot of use of the expense that is made, for example, with credit cards or debit cards. Well, look, both Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa are leading the whole of Spain on a 10% year-on-year fall. Of course, with this forecast, with this forecast – and I go to page 42 of the Budgets presented to us by the government – man, it was expected to raise 3.8 billion euros, which meant an increase of 12.5 over the 2020 collection. Man, I think if you're working with data that's already obsolete, the collection will also be obsolete. I insist, it is only in January that 247 companies have been lost in Euskadi. Therefore, the growth forecast of 8.9% for next year, i.e. for this year, for 2021, remains more than obsolete. It's just that any think tank, any institution normally used by the government itself, is now moving to 5.3, 5, 6, etc., isn't it? With which, I believe that what is income, the budget, in my opinion – but, hey!, you will know better – is obsolete. On the subject of expenditure, we return to the usual: the lack of implementation. The lack of budget implementation is not just an issue in education, of course, which would certainly not be wrong, because here they have ruled this directly for 40 years, that we would have some data on budget implementation a little earlier. I mean, by December we'd only have until September, October, hopefully, at the end of the day, listen, is that I think we could have a slightly more advanced system. In any case, this whole debate has only served to see or to check one thing and it is – and I recover the words of another person I admire very much – "disquiet" – no longer my personal, but I believe from the opposition. "I am anxious," he said, "to face up to this economic debate, a debate that I consider fundamental, but which I do not expect substantial progress from." This was said by Pedro Azpiazu when he was an economic spokesman at the Congress of Deputies. And he concluded with this – and I also conclude –: "A budget approved without consensus, using its absolute majority – it was then recriminated to the People's Party – the parliamentary roll, is something that is not good for the economy, for the citizens or for anyone." And the truth is that the budget they have put before us is not good for the economy, nor for the citizens, nor for the Basques. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u18	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Mrs. Hatch, your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u19	Thanks again, ma'am. Well, the truth is that only the last intervention, that of Mrs Berrojalbiz, is the one that arouses, let's say, interest in the replica, so I've been taking some notes and I'm going to try to respond to some of those notes chronologically, let's say, as I've been taking them. I was surprised by the almost dramatic reference he made to the dramatic appeal he made, calling for respect and gratitude to Osakidetza. Of course, now it takes a little courage to say this when, I mean, those who are on strike one day or another, and the demonstrations, it is not us that is the government. So, "respect and thanks," I don't think it's up to us to make that appeal. I was wondering if we really think that the Budgets are not brave. Well, no. I think half an hour of my speech I've spent trying to explain why we don't think they're brave. He also referred to "if we have rectified" some of the amendments we have tabled. Well, neither. I think that my half-hour speech, too, was practically on that line, so just with listening, I think the answer to this question is clear. He was referring to the Stability Act, to the still validity of the Stability Act, if that Stability Act that was passed in the Congress of Deputies, also thanks to the votes of the Basque Nationalist Party, but, well... Negotiation. He referred to "sincere negotiation" and to why there was this disparity of understanding about the negotiation process. No, there's no disparity. I would like to say – and it is true that at that time there was talk of the "negotiation effort" and I continue to keep it: there was a sincere effort to negotiate – but I do have to say something else and it is that this negotiation was opened at a time when there was still a one-month deadline until this plenary session was held and, however, it was decided to close the four-day deadline on that weekend. That was, among other things, what makes him inviable, impracticable and what gives him that characteristic of simulacrum. In four days you can't negotiate a budget. And another issue that I wanted to make reference to too is that it seems to be that for the opposition, in general, "the worse, the better." And I always think: but what a mania, what a mania to put it this way, to understand the contrast of ideas as an attack, as an attack, moreover, to what seems to be the infallibility of the government in assessing the challenges and equipping them with a solution. Well, the truth is that we have tabled 66 resolutions on the European funds and we have been told that "no" to all; we have tabled 223 partial amendments and we have been told that "no" to all; we have said that the budget is reviewed and reworked, that the macroeconomic picture is updated, and we have been told that "no". We considered this budget to be the same as 2020, with a small patch, which is that of the COVID emergency. It seems to us, therefore, that this is indeed not enough. And we, the truth is that I also have to tell you that we are completing this process, because we are very concerned, as I believe that, on the other hand, the rest of society also remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u20	Thank you, madam. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u21	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. The Government's objective is to ensure health, economic recovery and employment. That has been our goal as Basque socialists and as part of this Government. All economic and financial tools have been used to present extraordinary budgets for an exceptional time and time. They are not the same as 2020, Mr Gordillo, they are not continuousists; their amendments are. The largest public spending ever raised to deal with an unprecedented situation such as this pandemic. But rigour and responsibility in the management of public accounts has always been an impression of the Basque Socialists, who have also wanted to make clear in these budgets. We take advantage, Mr Hernández, of the economic capacity that the economic concert gives us, yes, but budgetary and financial management must also be prudent and rigorous. And the main thing is that no partial amendments have been tabled that would change the model, there has been no package of amendments that would indicate a new model of public management in any area. The terms "strengthening", "pulse", "accompanying", "helping" have been the focus of the proposed amendments, so, frankly, the amendments are not fully understood. It cannot be overstated that it is based on an absolute majority, because the Basque Socialists have been involved in institutional stability at all levels, and that institutional stability has not been a problem, as the opposition is sometimes justified. On the contrary, we are trying to unite efforts in such a complicated and difficult health, economic and social situation. That is why the will for negotiation and agreement has been sincere and proactive. But it is curious that the Vox and Vasco Popular-Citizens groups, which have been the ones that have appealed most to the negotiating process, are the ones that have effectively been excluded from the beginning, for different reasons, but have been excluded. But beyond this stage of negotiations without results, the partial amendments have not received the support of the Basque Socialists because they do not bring, I insist, substantial changes. Neither to the measures of the COVID programme, nor to R & D+i, nor to the programmes of the Departments of Labour and Employment. There are no improvements in the management of the Department of Territorial Planning, Housing and Public Transport, where many of the items that the groups propose as new are already incorporated. Nor do we see, and I stress this again, that the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs is making a real, viable and realistic proposal to meet the needs of the sectors that are going so badly, such as hospitality, tourism and commerce. Overall, the funding lines and measures established for SMEs and self-employed people, the ERTE and its complement for people under EUR 20,000, the direct aid, the extra aid amounting to EUR 70 million in 2020 and EUR 21 million with which we have started the year, with the Basque Tourism Support Plan, are more than figures, which, if we add up, amount to more than EUR 200 million. And that they're certainties for the worst people who are going through it in some subsectors. The amendments to the whole and the partial amendments, as I said before, are not an alternative. They are complementary to sound budgetary bases, and it seems to us that the opposition has not prioritized solutions to the needs and challenges of today and the future. The main opposition group expects not only its best version for criticism, but also its best version for proposals. Citizenship expects solutions. That is why today we are going to approve items and programmes to manage the urgency and to lay the foundations for a future of change in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Mr. Estarrona, representative of the EH Collector, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u23	Thank you again, Mrs. President. And good noon to all. Well, today's discussions are being confirmed by many things that have been said before. First, I should like to thank Mme. Pérez for contradicting her ideas, and giving her this discussion in very respectable terms. Egia da kezka bat exitzen zagiula. We are concerned at some of the issues that you have raised with regard to, for example, supplementary housing provision, which you say is enough now, but we must remember that it has been frozen for 10 years. And it gives us some concern because, somehow, we are aware that you have a kind of "permanence contract" with the PNV and that your margin is also limited, but because you really also lose some perception of reality and what is needed. Because 10 years of freezing such aid, of that amount, when it had also shown willingness to increase it through the amendments made by a parliamentary group, and it turns out that, since there is no agreement, it is not done. It's something we're really worried about. But, well, I appreciate that attitude of humility, that attitude of self-criticism and recognition that these Budgets, as in politics, as in life itself, always have room for improvement. Mr. Gordillo, I like to learn too. And I like to learn, above all, new things, and it's something I'm passionate about. And I can't give you reason, because today in this plenary I have at least learned two things. One, on the one hand, that there is no public health in Cambodia and that the PNV and this Government comply with the approved one. Those two things I've learned today based on the data you've put up here on the desk of the Office of Sociological Prospecting. And furthermore, Mrs Berrojalbiz, that you devote your effort to opposing the opposition is very eloquent. We are used and accustomed as Euskal Herria Bildu to this government in the full powers of control opposing us, but that this last budgetary procedure has also become where the groups supporting the government, or the main group, the PNV, come to oppose us, I think it is very eloquent and speaks a lot. But there's one thing about his whole speech, and I think it's the only one we agree on. We agree, and to which you often make allusions, but that's where the difference lies: we and we don't do it. "On July 12, the collective intelligence spoke," and the electoral system that we have endowed in this country has given them, as a result, a parliamentary arithmetic that supposes them to be in absolute majority and form a government. Collective intelligence has spoken. For this reason, the reissue of this government lost 52,000 votes along the way and the project presented by EH Bildu to the citizenry won 25,000. Intelligence has spoken. Zuen arazoa ez from EH Bildu... Horrela da, horiek dira datuak, horiek dira. Ez da EH Bildu, éta badakigu guscatzen zazuela, baina ez da, gu ez gara zuen arazoa. Arazo asko dituzu, éta aipatu said to deny Hitler's batzuk. Eta horri gehitu behar zaizue guardantasun-falta, deskontrola, auzolaanean aritzeko ezintasuna, lehen esan dudan bezala. They are their difficulties in anticipating; their resistance to expenses that are inevitable, urgent and pressing; their way of understanding social and political dialogue; the way in which some of their positions are acting, as is evident; their autocracy... It is the very development of events that is placing them before the criticism of public opinion. Arazoa ez gara gu, arazoa ez da EH Bildu; ez zaïtezte konfunditu, benetan. It is clear that you, the government, are having bad political weeks. Numerous serious errors in the management of this pandemic are being uncovered. It has become clear, and it is becoming clear, that these budgets were already insufficient in December, that they were obsolete in January and that they have now lapsed, today that they will be adopted. And there's a lot to talk about today, and that's what we've been talking about, and that's what we've come to do. But if you want to splash in the mud, splash yourself, but please don't splash. Don't splash. Gure baliabide kolektibo guztiak herritar guztiak babesteko eta zaintzeko ebiltzeko prest egongo den gobernu bat eskatzen du egoerak. A government determined to increase, activate and use collective resources to protect each and every person, and let us not leave anyone behind. And not a government that denies its own reality, installed in the wishful thinking, with zero self-criticism, with zero margin of improvement, assuming that there is zero margin of improvement, and that has brought as a consequence, moreover, a budget not attached to reality, designed for the final straight of the pandemic, as it said in the first turn of the word. No, we cannot afford a government surpassed by its own reality and expectations. And for that reason, and for not extending today's session any longer, gaurko hitzartzea artikulu beat izenburuarekin hasi dugu. Sakona drag usten ari da, pandemiak milaka bizitza zeharkatu ditu, gure bizimoduaren oreka hauskorra kolokan jarriz eta asko ari da ludatzen egoera hau. Baina Gobernu honetatik haratago, but beyond this government, and despite this government, despite it, there is a people here, here is a country that is not the first time it falls, but that always, always has risen, collectively. And this time it will also be, because we have a lot to do, we have a lot to build, because the best pages in the history of this country are still to be written. So, finally, a hug for everybody in the front row, a hug for EH Collect, men, women, children, and young people in this town.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u24	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Eubertarians. Mrs. Bergeralbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Nietzsche: "I call a lie not to want to see something that you see." The honek badauka ba gaur enkaje ezin hobea. Today, it has been clearly demonstrated that they are courageous and also very social budgets. Thanks, among other issues and plans, to these budgets, Euskadi is a society with less inequality and of the European regions with less poverty, although we must continue to make progress – autokritika egiten dugu – even more so after a very complicated 2020, as we have reflected in our country objectives, placing Euskadi among the five European countries with less inequality. To achieve these rates, GIR plays a key role, increasing its amount in these budgets by forecasting an increase of 1.8%, a progressive and constant increase historically. I do not understand the criticism of Elkarrekin Podemos when the non-contributory pension in Spain has increased the same percentage and have done nothing to remedy it. You have also argued in the General Courts that the importance of minimum living income is its protective value and not its amount. The GIR exceeds the minimum living income, then it is curious that on this occasion and here its protective value is questioned. The same is true of decent pensions and their link to the minimum wage and even the controversial EUR 1,080. In Navarre – We can, as part of the government – we agree with EH Bildu to carry out a study on the real situation of pensions, recognizing that the applicable legislation is the state. A study. But of course, these vagaries and hypotheses in Navarre are converted here by Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita and EH Bildu into imperative. We will continue to bet on a policy to combat the pockets of poverty and to try to eliminate inequality, which we maintained in 1989 and which we continue to maintain, coherent policies. Our goal has always been the same here, in Madrid and in Europe. We don't change. In this crisis our goal has been to keep the country open, herri dynamiko bat isiza, a more global bet, because what the hospitality, the trade, the travel agencies want is to work, and what the young people want is to go to class to study face-to-face. And that has been our bet, always keeping a balance between health, social and economic. And when it has not been possible, we have supported, and will continue to support, the sectors most affected. As an example, the new programme of financial support for SMEs, 140 million for extraordinary actions that will include new actions for the most punished sectors; a programme of incentives for various sectors worth 15 million euros in the Department of Consumer Affairs, Commerce and Tourism; in January, new support measures were announced for the tourism sector –21 million – pioneers including travel agencies; the 7 million small trade reactivation plan; the modernisation of establishments with 1.4 million; the campaign to boost Basque trade, of 600,000 euros..., but the adviser has already announced that they are working on a plan for the most affected sectors of trade and a new programme of aid for Basque hospitality. Their attitude leads them to propose amendments to this budget that involve structural policies that go beyond, in some cases, even our powers. There, Elkarrekin Podemos, which imposes limitations on energy prices, changes in employment and its conversion, minimum vital income, where competition is state. Elkarrekin Podemos, do not confuse the plans: its political group in the state can advance in many of the policies it has cited, for example, in combating energy poverty. We will accompany you along the way and complement any assistance you need, such as complementing the ERTE. Don't have any doubts. Without prejudice to your being a government there and us opposition, we will always be to collaborate and work. Those of us who are part of the Basque Nationalist Party are aware that our decisions must be aimed at achieving what is best for this country and its people. It was always so and so we learned, always looking for collective well-being, the best future for Euskadi, because it is the goal that guides us, with intelligence, with perspective and also with transparency. And these budgets are made with these values, pride of being part of the vanguard of a human movement with 125 years of life, which has demonstrated at all times – in good and bad times – dignity, humanity and sacrifice for the cause of the Basque people. I don't think other political parties can be as proud of the history of their party as I can be of the Basque Nationalist Party, or perhaps so, depending on the story. The movement is shown to be walking and the facts are the ones that confirm things. We know it's not the other parties you wanted in advance. That's what Poptular Party used to say when we came to the agreements in 2017 and 2018, and the Podemos, too, when you took refuge in 2020 Pretentions. You said you'd come to an agreement, but in general you didn't agree with this budget project, but you understood that there was an opportunity to make up for you a certain quality and influence, so that you could agree to certain specific services and public policies. We say the same about state priorities. But what happened now? Don't you want to improve these budgets? The context has changed, but our centrality has not. We agree with the People's Party or Elkarrekin We can-United Left, but we do not change our way of acting. Beraz, nahi izan duenak influence iziko aukera eduki du. Eta adibide lez We can pardeari egindako eskaintza da. Three proposals whose final offer was EUR 97 million to be able to influence health policies, care, equality and gender-based violence, education, supplementary housing, employment, environment and energy efficiency. The government went further with an effort to be able to offer the Elkarrekin group We can make more political commitments, including proposals in areas such as housing, in which the Basque Government proposed to them to put in place a system of control of rental prices, which, by the way, they have accepted with regard to the budgets of the City of Vitoria, but which seems to them insufficient here. Or in the area of taxation, where you, as a government in Navarre, have offered EH Bildu this approach to tax reform and the creation of green taxes, but here you say that the same commitment that the Basque Government offers them has little value. And in the field of energy, offering, for example, the commitment not to make new applications for exploration. When you want to agree, you don't get scared when you offer an offer that advances in aspects that you are claiming, to the extent that you don't want to analyze it, because that might make you see, perhaps, that the "no" decision was pre-negotiation. We have had a sincere and honest predisposition, with clear proposals in line with its political model, which certainly, with high eyesight, would have been overwhelmingly accepted. A budget that everyone could recognise, at least off the record, is very socially and economically reasonable, and that with clear political will could have been supported by the vast majority of this House. Mr. Gordillo, we're not here to teach anyone lessons. We have come to defend these budgets and our position against their amendments. It's not opposing the opposition, it's defending our work. I will have to argue my position on the amendments, won't I, Mr Gordillo? And that he was not in the negotiations does not mean that he was not aware of the attitudes of each political party, because nothing else came out of the meetings you were going to the media to tell your position. It's like seeing that... how it goes on the highway in the opposite direction and believes that everyone else is crazy, because this is the same, that not supporting the Budgets all the opposition means nothing. In politics, I said it last time, there are two fundamental pillars: the main one is that politics is the art of what is possible and, secondly, that you have to accept your relative position. And trying to disqualify the party with more representation in this House means disqualifying Basque citizenship, which has placed its trust in us. Let me add a pillar of my own that I believe must have politics: respect. Because when lost we run the risk of taking steps to totalitarian and dangerous drifts. In conclusion, it could be said that the option for a constructive, useful, summative opposition model, conducive to a realistic, possible, pragmatic budgetary negotiation model, a budgetary negotiation for use – although perhaps two days ago for the left abertzale this was to be sold by a plate of lentils–. However, if one chooses an exercise of the opposition without concessions, a solvent opposition, which never adds up, the result in a budget debate is unfailingly that of a negotiation faced from the lack of realism, from maximalism, with excessive claims. Where does the systematic rejection of all the proposals, also the budget of the Basque institutions, lead us? Nowhere, this is the trip to nowhere that the opposition proposes to us. They must stop putting sticks on the wheels constantly, the "worst, better", because I have to tell them that to their critics we, more strength. We have always worked, worked and worked for the good of Euskadi. What hurts them most is that the groups that support the Government, that the Basque Government has ideas for progress, that progress, and as this budget shows. And now with a clear objective, and so said the lehendakari: "Personal health and economic health". This is the common good shared, and whoever does not want to see it and for several months to launch proclamations in order to forge a contrary speech, is not telling the truth, Nietzsche already said. From here, as Jeltzale and Basque citizen, I want to thank all and all the advisors and advisors and all your team, Mr Azpiazu, for their innovative ideas, for their commitment to research and development, for further digitisation, for our companies, for going to the last mile, for their work and effort for making up at such a complicated time of this budget that they bet on people, for their health, for their social protection, for their education, without leaving anyone behind. Eskerrik asko. And to you, Mr President, leader of this group. I'm sure this budget will place resources in order to go forward to your projects and face the difficult situation that exists. We know that the situation is extremely difficult, so that you will be protected by the Eubertarians. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. End of discussion, we'll go to the vote. We'll vote first with the Mists, which are reserved for the distributions. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly are 43; the votes are 75; the supporters 1, the contrary 68; the abscesssion, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u27	So they didn't accept it. We're going to vote next to the popular Euscals-Ciudadans' orders reserved for the distributions. We can vote. [[Berber]] Yeah? Did you vote first? Wait a minute. You have the presence, it's well in you, the presence, it looks like. Well, go back to the results, please. We're gonna vote for the ads, we're gonna vote against the vote, we're sorry. [[Berber]] Yours, right? Doesn't yours look like it? I'll have you sit down, please. Well, the system's new and we're having some mistakes. That's why. Is it now? Wait. Well, well, who... Isn't it the other day? Well, shall we put the meaning of your vote, okay? It's very nice of you, too. (Response) I'll ring the bell, if anybody wants to get it out, okay? to begin again, to be calm. It was twelve o'clock in the morning and thirty-nine. At twelve-five o'clock in the morning the meeting began again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u28	Well, I'm out of my mind. We're going to vote again, okay? Let's start over. Please sit in your places, and we'll have a vote. First, we're gonna vote for the Mists team that's reserved for the distributions. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; the votes are 75; the supporters 1, the opponents 68; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u29	So they didn't accept it. We're going to vote next to the popular Basque Group-Ciudadanos' team reconnaissances reserved for the distributions. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly are 43; the votes are 75; the supporters six; the opponents are 68; the abscesssion is 1. white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u30	So they didn't accept it. After that, we're going to vote for EH Collections reserved for the Party. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters are 21; the contrary, 48; the Absences, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u31	So they didn't accept it. Charges of expenses and appendages are put into agreement with the accepted changes on the committee. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly are 43; the votes given, 75; 41; the contrary, 33; Abscesion, 1. white, 0.1,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u32	So they're accepted. They vote at the Basque Popular Groups-Ciudadans for the articles and regulations of the law, corrections written from 1.297 to 1.319. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly are 43; the votes are 75; the supporters six; the opponents are 68; the abscesssion is 1. white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u33	So they didn't accept it. Next, the EH Collectors vote for the articles of the law, and the corrections of the regulations, from 1.325 to 1.328. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters are 21; the contrary, 48; the Absences, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u34	So they didn't accept it. And lastly, we vote together with the articles of judgment and the title of law. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 34; the abstainations, 0; white, 0.1,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-02-11.u35	So they're accepted. And therefore the Law of General Practise of the 2021 Eukamia Eremique is approved. It's just that, since we've exhausted the list of subjects, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon.
