ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u0	Good morning, everyone. All good mornings, we'll start the whole meeting. Quiet, please. Quiet, please. I inform you that the sixteenth point has been abandoned for another. First point in theme list: "To ask the question of the Bareatic Michaels, the parliamentary members of the U.S.R.R.A.S.A.S.S.A.S.A.S.A.S.A.S.S.A.S.E.S.A.S.E.S.E.S.A.S.S.A.S.A.S.S.A.S.A.S.S.A.S.S.A.S.A.S.A. Mr. bottoms, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u1	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, lords and ladies of the department, Mr. President, good morning. Madame Tapia, who had been visiting the Miñano Park last Friday, was visiting the Marie Curie Building, where Mrs. Epalza and Mrs Bilbao followed the director of Eukadical Technological Parks and the Directors of Techological Parks of Arade, made a career for us. And also from the 2021-20-24 Plant Stratical Planstra, which reminded us of the strategic plan of the industrial parks, if we had forgotten it, of the importance of technological parks in our country and of our economy. The history of park technology begins in our town in 1986, where Zamudio was the first park in the state. And from that moment he's developed a great deal and a great spread. Today, in three historical lands, we have technological parks: They have 580 companies, 20,000 people working there. Plus, 50 percent of them are high-level people. And 37% of the research and development of our country, it's in it, right there, in the technological parks. And besides, as far as the economic model is concerned, it's very popular with a game of funk and public institutions, and it's about to create collaborative competitions, unions. For business, university, and public institutions, are spaces which unite, and are very convenient places, on the one hand, to develop a reforming system, to encourage the transfer of technological, to attract the talent, or to reveal the technological vocations of women. And all this will be necessary in the three fat transitions we have made: The transition into the mythical climates, the digit of technology, and also in the socio-demographic memoir, is to be in Euskanagic. And for that, it's important, I say, to encourage this strategic plan. And we're delighted to have the investment you've planned as a team, $16 million to expand and strengthen our parks. So, once I tell you this, I'd like to ask you a question. On the one hand, the strategic plan itself, and on the other hand the bets, this investment of 126 million, will have the effect on our hundred producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u2	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. At the bottom of the district, as you mention, the 21-24 Planet Stratical, is, in a way, a continuation of the foregoing, of 2020 Plans. And in this case, almost every action is full because we have a level of '98%'. I'd like to do it, too, you've mentioned 580 companies in parks, and it's 1% of Basque companies, but almost 8% of the job, and the expense of the investigation is almost 37%. So there's a tremendous amount of work to be done. And, for the last four years, jobs are up there by 3%. Thus, in this context, the new strategic plan is produced, and has three main axes. On the one hand, the possibility of a system of arranged growth which will be permanent and effective. This growth is mentioned in a million square meters, it will be a big surface, and five new buildings will be made. The second axis is that we can give advanced services to companies and people in the Basque campus, and that we can encourage social contributions. And the third axis, scientific and technological system, might be able to provide separate services. The plan always shows that our technological park will work on the main lines on our RIS3 and science and technology on the planet. And in that sense, the Arababa Ternological Park will have the greatest growth, 740 thousand square feet, and a $10 million investment. We must consider that we will take our results to double, and what will be done by those lands, which belong to the park, is to irrigate and start. In the biz, it'll be 200,000 square growth, 3 new buildings, in total, 85 million dollars. Why? It's already because the park in Derio and Zamudio will be added to the left-hand park, because it's already fully developed these four years. And in this sense, too, the opportunity that may be present in the bag will be examined. And, Gipuian Science and... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... Because it's gonna be there. And in that sense, the opportunity that may be present in the bag will also be considered. And in the gym Science and Technology Park, Miramon, and Galrigar, it'll be 40,000 square growths. And there it is, you see, two new buildings will be built. And in this sense, too, there will be a kind of corability in the canpus of sand, in the gymica for increasing growth. And, within the axis of growth, we also have the energy and digital transition to which we want to contribute as an important agent. And we are going to invest 17 million euros, acting on 35 of the 40 buildings owned by the parks, to address the intelligent deployment of solar plates and energy management, so that we also contribute in that direction. We also have the Smart Park project, with which we will boost the arrival of 5G to all parks, and generate a safe environment in them. And, on the last axis of impacting the service to companies, we will launch under the brand (...) services to professionals working there linked to sport, work reconciliation, internal mobility, other services; K Business to generate spaces for business development; K Talent, K Impulse and K Future to attract talent, to boost new markets and, of course, to adapt technologically to what is happening right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, "about the failure of the climateal emergency which has been made by the members of the Otero Gaboro team to meet the President." Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u5	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. President Urkullu, good morning. As soon as the Glasgow summit ends, we want to talk about the climate. Even if COP26's got a curiosity, it's already a failure. A lot of nice words, but no commitments. Not the end of fossil fuels, not the funding, not the development of the Paris deal. A word of surpassing itself: crack. We've got what we have to do, what's declared, what's signed, what's done after. And by cracks we're in a port. We're in one direction and the consequences we've begun to see are only lightnings from a great storm. It was called The Bad News, the Obama called Glasgown. The bad news is that we are far from where we should be and, according to the United Nations, with the current commitments, emissions will even increase. We got a double worry from Glasgow. The interests of different groups of states and pressures in the degree of nations do not allow to increase the degree of ambition, but we are not at home. Even here declarations and actions do not match. You declared climate emergency, but there is no emergency status policy in the climate. And the results jump into sight. The European Union's greenhouse gas emissions reduction has been 24% over the past 30 years. And our reduction in that period has been 11%, far from the European path. And the worst is that the only period in which we have had significant reductions has been between 2008-2012, in the great recession. But if you don't want to go so far back, I'll remind you that, since you're lehendakari, and a while ago, we just didn't cut emissions. That's why I think you're going to stand in front of the mirror. And that's why I'm asking you to build a rating on your climate policy failure. Why not reflect on the principle of realism? I mean, failure.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u6	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u7	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. Mr. Otero, when you asked the end of COP26. Euskadi has been declared for the good work done in the area of Europe. And you should explain that too. That's what the European Committee said. In particular, we have received the confession in these parts: climate change, circular economy, hydrogenian strategy and offshore energy oli. The Euscadian climate strategy of 2050, which we accepted six years ago, was designed to reduce 40% of gas from the heat effects of 20 to 30. We're following the path to our goal. In 14 years, from 2005 to 2019, we've cut 27% of our emissions. All that in the context of economic growth. And our emissions are now under the average of Europe. And the level of the survival of our economy has improved 40 percent. It's a positive rating of what's done. We're moving on, but we don't think that's enough. Me neither. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u9	Check out the data, Mr. Urkullu. Our missions are superior to one European, according to the latest report of IHOBE. I'll give you a few clues to complete your analysis. I'll tell you, we don't have an efficient frame on our table. We have no climate laws. The climate strategy and the necessitical strategy have ancient goals. We don't have the path to decorbonization. We don't have a climate budget. The ectorial strategy is gone. There's no climate analysis of investments and subordinates. There is no financing plan to face emergency climate. In short, we need to treat the climate emergency as it is: the greatest collective challenge we face as a society. And, by realising the challenge, to synchronize our path with the European objectives, that is to say to reach 2030 with 55% less emissions than in 1990, for us and ourselves, to reduce emissions by the end of the decade to half, half of what we emit today, in nine years, the same ones you carry from the lehendakari, the same ones in which the pace of reductions... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... in half, half of what we broadcast today, in nine years, the same ones you wear from lehendakari, the same ones in which the rate of reductions has been 0.1 % per year. I ask you about your policies, not the history of Euskadi. I hope that the magnitude of the problem is clear. Therefore, instead of disturbing the data, instead of imagining that everything is under control, it would be better for you to explain the situation in its crudeness, namely, to admit that the challenge before us is not sufficient to face the colossian challenge, but to follow what has hitherto been done. On the contrary, almost everything must be changed; Transport, housing, leisure, food, politics, habits... .......................... And no, your neighborhood scheme is not enough for these times. It is not enough for the community of institutions, or for the private members of the community. It takes a lot more. We need a social contract for climate. We all have something to say, responsibilities to take upon us. And in front of this giant challenge, you're the leader and not the record of make-up. We've been watching the next generation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u10	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u11	Mr. Otero, the huge make-up, the twisted data... New plans for the Middle Ages and climate change in our climates (... It adds. And in this plan we have established a new end: To reduce 45% of the gas stations on the hothouse effect, to 2030, to the 21st Word of Paris. I'm going to offer you some data too, Mr. Otero. We are committed to ambitious challenges. These are our actions for the climate. First community to adopt the Climate Emergency Declaration on July 30, 2019. Energy Transition and Climate Change Bill under development to achieve climate neutrality in 2050. Sustainable Mobility Bills, which will contribute decisively to the promotion of sustainable transport and the use of clean energy. I encourage the Basque Hydrogen Strategy as a private public collaboration project. The investments made in the period 2016-2019 for energy actions – and it is not accounting makeup, Mr Otero – reached EUR 567 million, 80% for energy efficiency projects. We are implementing the Life Urban Klima 2050 project, co-financed by the European Commission, with a budget of 20 million euros – and it is not accounting makeup. We have the Ekiola project for the promotion of citizen cooperatives for sustainable energy generation. And Euskadi has joined the Global Industrial Alliance at the Glasgow COP26 to achieve zero net emissions by 2050. The Basque Government is leading this bet and this is acknowledged by Basque society. We are committed to climate action. And since I am accused of the success or failure of something that is to compromise the whole of society, I am willing, and I would be grateful if you, as it seems that you do not care what is happening with gas, would join and also favour the deployment of clean renewable energies to achieve these objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Ekain Rico Razama Ezakia, the second vice president, and the head physician of Eplegus, about the new programmes of the Department of Job and Emplogue, and the manner in which they will associate themselves with the improvement of their profession." Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. Mrs Vice-Lehendakari, on 2 November you presented to us in this Parliament's Committee on Budgets the main budget lines of the Department of Labour and Employment. A draft budget in which we update the bet that has been made from the beginning by your department to continue to deal with the urgent, yes, but laying the foundations of the important, which is still the necessary transformation of our system of employment and inclusion, where the Lanbide Lanbide Hobetzen transformation project is also inserted. With this draft budgets we have updated the road map marked by the department on the same bases of prudence, of confidence, but also of rigour. The same rigour that leads us to note that with all the uncertainties that we had on the table we have achieved the best unemployment rate in the last 11 years. But it is the same rigour that leads us not to stop for half a minute at self-satisfaction, but to remain focused on the challenges ahead and which are also reflected in the Basque Employment Strategy 2030 that you brought us to this Parliament to receive input from all groups, as it was. Since it cannot be otherwise, the Basque Socialists share the lines, we share the strategy and the road map, and we are also convinced that with these budgets for the year 2022 we will achieve the objectives set on the basis of those four ideas that you were talking about: that investment in innovation, inclusiveness and equality, which is in addition to the d of social dialogue, which for the Socialists is so important. And Mrs Vicelehendakari, in that context you have put forward new projects that will require a new effort by Lanbide to achieve that ultimate goal that we all share in an effective and efficient public service. And he does it at a time when Lanbide is already immersed in a profound process of transformation. We are absolutely convinced that you have perfectly marked the road map and that is why we want to ask you how these novel projects will be combined with that process of transformation of Lanbide Lanbide Hobetzen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u14	Thank you, Mr. Rico. To answer, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. President. Chiefs of Investigation. Partners. Good morning, everyone. Ekain Rico, yes. It's changing the way the profession works, users, workers and... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... Good morning, everyone. Ekain Rico, yes. He's changing his profession mode of work to be that public service required by users, workers, and legislature. Projecting the profession is not a fixed photograph, but a process that will stretch out during the law. And what we're doing is moving all the pieces at once. It would be easier to limit it to a single project for a short and fixed purpose, but it would be of no use to us if we did not succeed in getting ready workers, offices ready, and structure changed. It's the process that we started in the first minute of the law, and yesterday at the Administration Council, we've accepted it at the place where the operating societies have seats. Because I have said this on more than one occasion, Lanbide is not changed by decree, it is a very young public service, which right now, this month of November, has turned ten years since we assumed active employment policies in Euskadi, and in this decade it has had to organize itself while trying to meet the exit to the crisis of then and then it has had to face another totally different crisis, where courses, supplements of ERTE and income guarantee have not been stopped. But we don't settle for management. We want to turn it into a trusted service that is used by companies looking for qualified personnel and by workers to contact those companies. And this means changing everything at once. We have changed the structure so that benefits and inclusion do not condition the training and guidance work. We are changing the way we work with staff involved in the projects, which is formed to orient others with a new office that will be virtual to approach so many people who do not physically move to our headquarters, but have the habit of interacting through the web, with a new design also of the physical offices themselves, so that those who want to continue to come face-to-face, but need access by different channels, because their needs are different. And the content of that transformative project we also do with pilot programs and so it has to be if we want everyone to succeed. It is not enough to have the best offices if there is no trust on the part of those who hire, so we launch a new unit of companies to go out and look for those who generate jobs. It is not enough to manage lines of support for young people, we create an ecosystem of our own for this, it is a space where these young people move with great ease in order to be able to interrelate with each other and to be able to retain and attract talent to Euskadi again. It is not enough to include the gender perspective in the programmes that we do, it is necessary to take concrete actions aimed exclusively at women, so that they dare to enter the most masculinized professions, which are often better paid and belong to the industrial sphere. And that's the Morrokotudak project. It is not enough to create a specific line for over 45 years of age, you have to offer clear paths and there are Aukera Berri or Auzolan. All this and much more is Lanbide Hobetzen. It is not a plotted vision, it is a joint vision of how to guide this public service towards the efficiency and demands that Euskadi needs in this 21st century. That is what we approved yesterday at the Lanbide Board of Directors with all the social and economic actors sitting on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, Jon Hernandez Hidalez, together with Podemos, a member of the Anizar Party, made to the president about the bill of law of the preceding 2022." Mr. Hernandez is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u17	Lehendakari jauna, last Friday you gave a speech in the framework of the Forum Europe. For more than an hour you exposed yourself about the economic future of Euskadi in a time that you described as opportunity. Our group was particularly striking, among other things, by its references to its draft budgets, which it described as a turning point. The budgetary framework of recent years, we know it perfectly well in our group, and it is similar to this year. Focused mainly on budgetary balance it has cost ridiculous public investment, dwindling public staffing and privatization of services and goods produced by the public sector. You talk about paradigm shift, inflection point, and yet, you pose an investment growth that hardly recovers the pre-crisis level of 2008, where is that paradigm shift? Aurreko urteetako logika berriar jarraitzen diotene aurrekontuak; ez dago aldaketarik. The budget of the year one after the great shock of the pandemic closes practically with budgetary balance. That's why we're asking you where the turning point is.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u18	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. President of answer is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u19	Eskerrik asko legebiltzarburu andrea. Mr Hernández, indeed our aim is to contribute to a turning point (?) in the draft budget presented, more than 13 billion budget, almost eight out of ten, almost eight out of ten euro to social policies, 1.6 billion more for investment, 50% more than the previous year's budget. I think it's a remarkable turning point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Hernandez is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u21	Lehendakari jauna, a turning point requires changes, not just figures. It is true that a gap has been opened in relation to the policies that have governed economic policy over the past decade. Policies imposed, I will say violently and undemocraticly, as we saw in Greece, with great cruelty, and it is true that you have announced that you will take advantage of it. But so far there is no change in the policies of this government, and there is no change in these budgets. With regard to the deficit, you did not want to make a really countercyclical policy... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ... now there is no change in the policies of this government, and there is no change in these budgets. With regard to the deficit, you have not wanted to make a truly countercyclical policy that will decisively bet on public leadership to emerge from the greatest economic shock in recent history. We give him an invitation. You know that we have gone to negotiate the budgets with your Economics Advisor and we offer you a humble invitation: expand the reference rate and exhaust the limits of indebtedness to protect people by investing in the public. What message does the Government send to society when 4,000 workers who have fought the pandemic in the very first line are left on the street? Our political space has fought to end the logic of negative replenishment rates, and it has only succeeded in part, but this is an opportunity that you should take advantage of and that you are not taking advantage of. It would also have been a very important turning point to make a determined bet by public education after decades of exclusive concerts and educational policies, launching a clear message to all women workers in the public network, who are priorities. On the supply of public goods, beyond the promised technological entelequias, investments in the production of goods and services of an economic nature, such as, for example, and as we propose, the creation of a public energy company, cannot be compromised. Investments that discipline the most speculative capital and send a clear message to the citizenry: it is possible and desirable to provide goods and services from 100% public structures and with the vocation of public service, not profit, and to create jobs. We, Mr Urkullu, extend our hand to these budgets, but to change the paradigm, not to move a few numbers in the budgets. For that we understand that we need political will, a point of inflection, needs self-criticism, but above all change. We do not see that change in these budgets at the moment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u22	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Hernandez, it's your turning point. In any case, I insist, a debt until 2023 at 15%, reaching the limit, with a commitment that when the budgetary balance is restored, the deficit target and the debt limit do not leave to other generations what we have generated. Look, I know the strategic proposals you have put forward: public energy company, Basque Energy Agency, SHESA, social pact of a new educational model. We are discussing what Hizkuntza-Hitzarmena is and the possibility of a new law on education. Maintenance of 4,000 jobs in Osakidetza. Do you do it in the rest of the state? Reform of the income guarantee system. We are on it, Mr Hernández, and you know it perfectly well. Progress towards a single 2.5% budget in equality policies. In addition, you are planning amendments valued at EUR 500 million. And it represents the total budget increase. In any case, we are studying all this, Mr Hernández, from the principle of respect for the sphere of competence and also from the principle of realism. I don't know if it's realism what you honestly raise. Your question is whether the draft budgets can represent a turning point. My answer is yes, because it will contribute to economic recovery, the creation of employment opportunities and the strengthening of the Basque model of social protection. And because it will help to advance in the three global transformations: energy, or energy and ecological; technology and digital; demographic, health and social. Some of its proposals respond to these budgetary objectives. Our disposition is to dialogue and agree, and this disposition is guaranteed. In any case, the draft budgets presented in this House will be the main tool for the economic and social revival of Euskadi in 2022 and will be a turning point. The draft budget contributes to the consolidation of social policies. All the exceptional resources of the Special Covid Plan for Health, Education and Social Protection are maintained for next year. We have, in absolute and relative terms, more resources than ever before for social spending, and we have increased, as I said, 50 % of investment, giving priority to the green and digital transformation of the Basque economy. The draft budgets are a tool to drive the turning point, but we have more instruments approved: the Berpiztu Plan; the Science, Technology and Innovation Plan 2030; the Euskadi Next Programme; the Agenda 2030; the Basque Basque Country Internationalisation Plan; Basque Green Deal, energy transition and circular economy programme; or the Digitalisation Plan; and Basque Industry 4.0. The more support we add up at this time, the more we can, through joint responsibility, accelerate the process of reactivation, the more employment we will contribute to generating, we will have more resources and, ultimately, we will contribute more to cohesion and social balance. A real flexy point, Mr. Hernández, would be to help you protect the budget project. We have proposed a grand project: social, investor and hipid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Angulo Euskal Group Popular-Ciudads to the president, the reduction of a tax on the Basque family and the Enpresses." My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Good morning, President. This week you accused the Madrid Community of tax dumping. Maybe he was just trying to cover the mouth of a new hairstyle from his partner Sanchez, now that we won't have AVE until 2027 and, on top, without entering or submerging in some capitals. I understand that you prefer to talk about something else, or perhaps what really bothers you is that Mrs Ayuso does what you don't do: lower taxes and reduce the tax burden on the people of Madrid, helping to push out of the crisis. Because it makes no sense that here, in the Basque Country, taxes are higher than in Madrid, and that our types of IRPF, lehendakari, are higher, several more points in the lower sections. It's amazing that you're protesting... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... the taxes are higher than in Madrid, and that our types of IRPF, lehendakari, are higher; several more points in the lower sections. It is incredible that you protest, when others exercise your limited powers in fiscal matters, and that, with a complete Economic Concert here, you will be unable to push along with the Foreign Ministers the essential tax reform. The Concert cannot be decorative. And that is what it seems if, in the end, in Madrid, without Concert, without Concert, the citizens, the families, the self-employed pay less, and our self-employed and entrepreneurs here in Euskadi yearn, lehendakari, yearn for the economic and fiscal conditions of Madrid. Therefore, less criticism – I think – of the legitimate decisions of others, and more agreements between the Basque institutions, to put the Concert at the service of economic recovery and employment. It's not that hard. We did it in the past, lehendakari. I was a Bizkaia junta in the 1990s, when José Alberto Pradera – he will remember – assumed to lower taxes and collect more. And we abolished the inheritance tax, so the Basques wouldn't go to Madrid.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u26	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u27	We abolished the inheritance tax so that the Basques would not go to Madrid. That's how it was. And when others do, and they successfully exercise their skills, it seems to you that it bothers you. You failed to comply with the PP agreements for a tax reform in the past legislature...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u28	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u29	... I have been putting it to you on behalf of my group since the same investiture session. But you do the opposite. And in the Budgets Act, new tax increases. And in the Law of Contributions, absorbing more and more resources, emptying the outer arks. Three out of four euros raised feed your budget, Mr Urkullu. It is unfortunate, I have to tell you, but you are more and more like those Catalan nationalists, for the worse, and you are increasingly different from the Government of the Madrid Community, for the ill of the Basques, so hit by the pandemic. I think you have to imitate the good. And if you don't want to imitate him, remember what we did before: repeat your own correctness instead of criticizing your own correctness. That is why I ask you: are you willing to change your mind and push, alongside the Chambers, a tax reform that cuts taxes?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u30	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u31	Thank you, Chief of Parliament. Good morning, sir. We're all set to adapt the tax rates to economic condition and nice society. And we follow a certain criterion, which you probably will share; only that we have enough budget to maintain social balance with our resources. That is to guarantee balance, to facilitate economic activity, and to guarantee the quality of public politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u33	Lehendakari, our group asks you this because Basque citizens like the Madrid model. And the Basque businessmen too. Also. Aim. Look, read: "The Basque entrepreneurs defend Madrid's greatest fiscal attraction in front of Euskadi." You call Madrid dumping? And how do you rate yours, lehendakari? I'm telling you. Yours is tax abuse, tax punishment here. If even Mr Ugarte, Secretary General of the SEA, is saying that Mrs Ayuso's policies for Euskadi are what are needed here in Euskadi. I mean, the Basque oasis was always a mirage. And today, the Basques know we're falling behind. The figures and the facts sing. That's why the businessmen have taken the colors out of you. Without going further, until Piqué, the captain of the Barcelona Football Club, says, sets an example to Madrid, saying he feels healthy envy of Madrid. Without a doubt, it would be better, Mr Urkullu, to listen to him and to avoid polemics in which he is pierced. Because, Mr. Urkullu, no doubt...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u34	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Time is up. Please be quiet. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Iturgaiz, I respect the views of business representatives from their own interests. It is my interest that affects society as a whole, Mr Iturgaiz. And our goal is to help achieve the best possible standard of living in a cohesive society. Taxation is a tool, not an end in itself. We advocate progressive and equitable taxation, which will help to obtain resources to redistribute them through social policies, and resources to provide aid to businesses. I have not been the first to use the tax dumping classification, since its intervention is full of references to what certain opinion prescribers have written; review the report. Please also review the allegations we have suffered in Euskadi. Charges and complaints by some autonomous community, such as the one concerning tax holidays. Or for the policy of aid to shipyards; a question also works with the People's Party in the Spanish Government, Mr Iturgaiz. I see a difference with your model. The People's Party defends a neoliberal model that we do not share. We advocate a balance model to ensure social policies, in line with the most advanced European models. Those who criticize us for neoliberals believe that today they have good proof of what their fallacy is. Generally reducing taxes is limiting social cohesion. In Euskadi, balance and social cohesion is a country objective. We must have the resources to ensure that public policies are adequate and sustainable. With my statements I have demonstrated an objective reality... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... We must have the resources to ensure that public policies are adequate and sustainable. With my statements I have demonstrated an objective reality, without using disqualifications, such as those which, unfortunately, we have had to hear from presidents of other communities, especially in Madrid, calling the Basque Economic Concert as an insolidary privilege or the unjust accusations I have heard at the conferences of presidents, both in San Millán and in Salamanca, precisely because I defend both the (...) and the agreement necessary in fulfilment of the Concert. I defend the Concert as an exercise of responsibility, of unilateral risk and of fiscal harmonization with the rest of the state, and also with Europe. We are planning a common, non-uniform fiscal policy, by virtue of the realities inherent in the economic guidelines in Europe, reinforcing the commitment to combating tax havens and fraud. I defend a social model that is possible thanks to the management of our own resources. Mr Iturgaiz, I am concerned to see you more interested in defending the Madrid model than in defending the Basque model. Do you claim autonomy for Madrid's decisions? Don't worry. For my part, I will devote myself to defending autonomy and respect for the decisions of Euskadi. In Euskadi we manage, and we will manage, which is ours. And we will look at the advanced countries of Europe. The assessment of the Madrid effect leaves it for the common system autonomy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Ask the question, Amia Martin, the Grey-haired lawyer of the Misto Group, who hasn't yet solved the case of the President, and the question of the Gastian Council of EB." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. 378 unsolved crimes, 378 dead whose executioners remain unpunished. 378 murders that have not been tried and have no final sentence. 10 years after the ETA terrorist gang was defeated, many shadows remain. Too many. A European mission travelled to Vitoria as part of the investigation carried out to clarify these 378 murders of the terrorist band ETA, which are still unsolved. A key stop before meeting in Madrid with members of the Supreme Court and the National Court, here in Vitoria, as the capital of the territory where ETA has shed blood. And yet the Basque Government, the highest representative of the Basque Country, did not meet with the group of MEPs in Vitoria. I ask you, Mr Urkullu, why did you not meet with the European mission on your visit to Vitoria?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u38	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, this working group to which you refer has not contacted the Basque Government. Nor do we know that other institutions, such as this Parliament, would be brought into contact with the will of Basque citizens. This is a matter not only of institutional respect, but of pure institutional courtesy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u41	Mr Urkullu, you said that you had not been counted on, that you would have liked the delegation of MEPs to Spain to have called you, to have contacted you. And I wonder, does the PNV have no European representation? Don't you communicate with each other? You already knew that this delegation was arriving in Vitoria. And I knew that because your MEP Izaskun Bilbao was aware of the fact. Her MEP is a member of the Green Group. And this group declined to send any member to this mission, as did Bildu, who is attached to (...). And he didn't send any representatives to this mission either. That's funny. They were not interested in contributing to this issue. In VOX we were aware of this fact, by direct information from our MEP, Jorge Buxadé, with whom I met and firsthand knew all the details. So, Mr. Urkullu, you were aware of the fact, weren't you? Because, moreover, there is only one answer to this. You were not interested at all in receiving this delegation, which your party has already closed the door in Europe. You added that you would have liked to tell about the policies being pursued by the Basque Government in defence of the memory of the victims. He said it. This raises blisters, Mr. Urkullu. What would I have told them? The wonderful Gogora Institute and ETA whitening that this institute does on a daily basis? Or maybe the new Basque Historical Memory Law? That which your Government has brought to this Parliament and which speaks only of the victims of Francoism, which is already before you, seems very good to us. But not a single line against the exaltation of terrorism and compensation to ETA victims, for example. You have also publicly said that you are in favour of investigating the 400 unsolved crimes, because memory must contemplate the need for clarification of the facts. What emotional words and what little they mean in this scenario. What have you done in recent years to solve ETA crimes? Absolutely nothing. On the contrary, they have come to a demonstration, together with Bildu, to ask for the approach of prisoners to Euskadi. Approaching ages that have neither condemned nor expected these crimes, and that have not, moreover, helped to solve these murders and that, on top of that, they are prepared for prison benefits. Is that how you help the victims, Mr. Urkullu? Whitening Otegi's criminal past, making a deal, patting him on the back? To a character who openly defends extortion, kidnapping and murder as a political weapon? Their duty as representatives of the institutions of the Basque Country is to face up, to participate actively and to put all the means at their disposal to put white on black, and to contribute to the justice of the victims. There are those like Otegi who are not on the side of the victims and their families, but on the side of the executioners. And you should never sit next to them, not even for a photo until they condemn the violence, because you are the lehendakari of all Basques, not just a few. Remember... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... You should never sit next to them, not even for a photo, until you condemn the violence, because you are the lehendakari of all Basques, not just a few, remember it, of all. The past is not erased or can be reinvented and you know it and our past, that of the Basques, unfortunately is written in blood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u42	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u43	Eskerrik asko legebiltzarburu andrea, Mrs Martínez, in the previous session of control of the Government, in the parliamentary session I told him about his exaggerations. Today I find it curious how you refuse your dignity as a Basque parliamentarian to what should have been a gesture of institutional respect for the working group that came here. It is difficult to understand that he had no interest in knowing the opinion of the Basque Government, especially when we have developed concrete initiatives in relation to unclarified deadly attacks. Mrs Martínez, I do not know when you think we were born or when this Parliament was born. In addition, a meeting with officials of the Basque Government was urged by various bodies of the European Parliament itself, of the European Parliament itself, to chair the committee to include in the agenda of the visit. All the attempts were unsuccessful, Mrs Martínez, I assure you that we would have been fully prepared to make our opinion and contribution. We continue to be, because this group sets out an objective that we share. And I said that last Friday at the public conference referred to in the previous question. The Basque Government responds with facts. On 4 March 2014, we commissioned a report on the procedural situation of attacks by terrorist organizations resulting in death. It was a pioneering initiative that no Government had set in motion before. This report was submitted in December 2014, Mrs Martínez, December 2014, which is not the last century. It was performed by Henar (?Navarro, a professor of criminal law and a degree in criminology; José Antonio Martín Pallin, judge emeritus of the Supreme Court; José Manuel Rodríguez Uribes, former director of victims of terrorism of the Ministry of Interior and later minister; and Carlos Fonseca, a journalist expert in terrorism. The report was provided to legislative, executive, judicial and associative institutions to help preserve the rights of victims. It follows from the conclusions of the report that more than 70% of the unclarified attacks were in the 1970s and early 1980s. And as a timeless reference, Mrs Martínez, the deployment of the Ertzaintza began in 1982 and culminated in 1995. Experience shows that it is very difficult today to achieve complete judicial clarification of crimes that were mostly perpetrated more than 40 years ago. In any case, the Basque Government is not resigned and we will contribute with the initiatives that set out this objective. We have launched the Memory and Recognition Papers project to contribute to the truth and justice rights of the mortal victims of ETA terrorism in cases of incomplete clarification. These notebooks are a contribution that seeks to repair to the extent possible the added damage suffered by these victims. Its development is based on research, documentation and compilation work initiated three years ago in collaboration with the Association of Victims of Terrorism. On 17 December we will hand over half a hundred notebooks to the families of ETA fatalities whose cases have not been sufficiently clarified. It will be our contribution to the dignity, humanization and recognition of these victims, our contribution to their right to truth and justice. These notebooks offer each family, in addition to the truth available today, a personalized, human and ethical recognition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the House of Representatives, Unai Fernandez de Betoño Saenz de Lacuesta EH, made to the president about the management of Ya." Mr. Fernández de Betoño is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u45	Good morning, everyone. President, we finally found out last week that the entries from Bilbo and Gasté AHT won't be buried once in a while. We don't know how old this is once. And we found out that Bilbo's station is going to be wild. We also found that we've spent $4 billion dollars in that infrastructure. Do you think he's having a good review?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u46	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Fernandez de Betoño, it can't be said that Euscala Y's management is appropriate, because it's the strategic work where delays are piled up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u49	Thank you, President. As a matter of fact, a journalist said that at least a week ago these delays of the work serve to meet the ministers. Ezek, Kajonde is becoming absolute, president. And you don't agree to meet the ministers. Listen to the mayor's complaints, but that's not the point. The most important thing is what a hole is. You admit he's already eating 6,500 million euros and it's gonna be 2,300 of them. That's a fifty-five-five-five-dollar bonus top, that's terrible. And now on the most important points, where travellers are going to take the train, what they promised for years will not be fulfilled. Four years ago you made a joke, when we found out that the goods wouldn't go from AHT to Jundiz. You said you hoped you'd have an impulse. That's a joke without fun. You didn't do it this time, because the Savage is very serious. But now that he's made a joke was Ortuzar, telling him that AHT is a Red Road. And this time it's not funny. For the money we're entering, and because that money we're entering goes to the prejudice of the ordinary train, what do you say: "It's all right. We take that money from the deck." Yes, but to pay for the quapo, the state also has the other infrastructure in the EAE. What if they put all the eggs in AHT's basket? Renfe is a total decay... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... other infrastructure, too. What if they put all the eggs in AHT's basket? Well, Renfe's in a final collapse. And you'll see when you're on the Wild Forest to go to C-3 Bilbor in 2027. Renfe's in a final decline. And in your budget, too, there are prominent gaps in the interesting projects. The 4th and 5th line is zero for next year. And ten grand for the Erritary at Donostian Tuscany. We think they're very big spaces. And in memory there is no mention of the transfers of jurisdiction in the suburbs. Such projects ought to be in the center of the railway policy for EHG. And now you're talking about the encomies, that you could almost imagine that you'd better manage this infrastructure. But in the places where you're in, you're doing very badly too. Hernani-Astir, that's what you've got, a little distance of 2,5 kilometers. You've been doing that for 10 years. And there's at least three more left. Or you will only execute 65% of the presumplemented money this year according to your predictable settlement. So, even when you're in the end, it's a terrible management. We think you're going to give a big rotation and put it in the middle of the nicest trains, a more social and retrevolutional pattern, as the EH Collect has proclaimed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u50	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Fernandez de Betoño, I don't know that I'm making a lot of fun. I don't know, really. And I'll try to text the subject again. Look, I said that the European Union in the '94 at Essen' took this infrastructure for a strategic opening in Europe. Euskal Y Ibernian Penintsula is a tool for connecting Europe. It is a fundamental infrastructure for the social development of the Atlantic axis, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. According to the last hearing of Europe's accounts in June 2020, Y's railroad record has been delayed for 13 years. Thus the connection to Europe through the Atlantic axis remains unrelated. The axis Atlantic. The management, therefore, is not effective in respect to the ends we share. Targets are: the balance, economic development, the reversal of climate, the impulse of the Atlantic axis, and the integration of Europe. I remind you once again Cup or management order. Analyze the references well. The (...?) Once again that Basque Y is an infrastructure of general character, so the cost corresponds completely to the Spanish Government. I have never understood your position always negative and contrary to the high-speed train. And I understand less that they approve the General Budgets of the Spanish Government that finance Basque Y and, however, continue to criticize this work here in Euskadi. And with regard to the management commission of the Basque Government, it has been an effective way to speed up the work in Gipuzkoa. In July 2019, at the end of this commission, we already set out our willingness to continue to take charge of the execution of new works. We have reiterated this offer by proposing the commission for the construction of the underground accesses to Bilbao and Gasteiz. As for the interim solutions agreed, it must be clear, first, that the pact to complete the works is already signed between the Spanish Government and the Basque institutions and, second, that any interim solution will always be provisional, must respect the compliance with the agreements, and, third, the aim is for this infrastructure to be completed and to become operational as soon as possible. The Basque Y is an essential infrastructure for Euskadi's connection with Europe, essential for the development of the Atlantic Corridor, which we must push by adding forces of social, economic and institutional actors to seek balance with the Mediterranean Corridor. It is essential for the development of our railway industry. It is essential for internal mobility and the reduction of CO2 emissions. The Glasgow COP26 has been the last example of the decided train bet as a greener and more sustainable mode of transport. Perhaps you would like to look at yourself in Europe and in the German greens, Mr Fernandez de Betôño. It would also be desirable for this look to be accompanied by a condemnation of the murder of Iñaxio Uria, as well as of all the sabotages and threats suffered by the companies participating in the Basque Y project, which has also caused the delay and the increase of this project, Mr Fernandez de Betoño. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, "Myria Kortja, the lawmate of the EH Collectors, made to the president of the Second Vice President and Work and Empedugu, the intervention of the integrated management of the minimum income to live on our protection system." Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u53	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. And good morning, Mountain Chief. They have agreed to an integral management of the minimum income of living, I dare say again, the Spanish Government and the Jelt Party of Euz. And as the power of the consequences of change is great, we would like to ask you this question: What, in your opinion, is the consequences that this transition will have on the rent system to ensure our income?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u55	The agreement on minimum living income, when both governments finally close it down in the Joint Transfer Commission, will make it much easier for those who request it in Euskadi to do so, and will also make it easier for Lanbide workers. We will fulfil a commitment from this Government, which is to integrate minimum living income into the Basque income guarantee system. It also fulfils a commitment from this Parliament. And it is not going to disrupt the processing of the law, because the preliminary draft that we are dealing with within the government already provides for the transfer of the IMV. And it will finally allow the Spanish Government to have good budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u57	I hear you saying... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ...budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Madame Kortja's, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u59	Nik entzuten zaitut exacten that the transfer will facilitate the procedures. We have heard of the transfer of comprehensive management. And I still hesitate. I continue to doubt of this, because I do not doubt whether the whole hand-in-hand will be transferred, and in this case, which will integrate the ingreso mínimo vitalal into our income, which will integrate itself into our system, and which we shall continue to design our own protection systems here, or that we are concerned with integrated management. For example, I am not clear of the fact that, as with the transfer of prison, our management will be in our power, but that the definition of pretty men will be in Madrid; Because I heard you talking about integration, like today, but I heard you also say that the rent will be supplemented to the incomes of ingreso mínimo vital. "Y recerde que coincidías en decir que no quermos ser una sucursal de Esaña." Edozein kasutan, nik gogoratuko dut Legebiltzar honen gehiengoak adostutakoa, eta justu esaten zona zen which urged governments to urgently complete the process of transferring minimum vital income and to do so in a comprehensive manner in order to strengthen our income guarantee system. We are not talking about integral management, but about integral transfer, which I think are two different things. But, well, we'll keep an eye out for what this mess is all about. But it worries us. We're still worried about this asshole, which is what we're seeing is complicated, right? Yes, in the case of rental revenues, and in the case of the ingreso mínimo vital, we see how supportives increase, but many of them, many of which, in the guarantee of incomes, and whether they are denied ingreso meronimo vital, do they not? 41% of the request we mentioned here in 2020, to guarantee incomes, were denied, right? It was because there was no need, but because the procedures and the access conditions were very strict. There are therefore many of the citizens who are out of protection when they have need, and who have the subjective right to maintain the minimum income. We are concerned, because if the data already found that the income guarantee system was less effective in getting households at risk of poverty out of that situation, we are concerned that the scope is now also diminishing, and we are also concerned that, on the basis of this data, budgetary adjustments have been made without taking into account this reality as well. I'll repeat it once more. Let us take advantage of the transfer of the ingreso mínimo vital, and of the change of law, the efficiency and activity of the system, for further and better protection. And if we do, we will be his companion. For we mentioned here yesterday that we have great transitions at the door, very important transitions and great modifications, and that it is very important in all of them to be able to do them all under the conditions of social justice. And in that case, to make sure that the incomes fitted to new times are designed and defined properly...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's, your time is up. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u61	Look, Mrs Kortajarena, 14 months ago, the two parties that we formed in the Basque Government signed a government agreement that committed itself to integrating minimum living income into our income guarantee system. Since then, my department and the Department of Governance have not stopped working to achieve that goal, which we have close by. Last September, this Parliament, with a single vote against, approved the call for both governments to make this transfer. And in that we are: we continue to work, and that goal is getting closer and closer thanks to the agreement reached. In the meantime, what we will see is that those Basques who as Spanish citizens are entitled to minimum living income will see their procedures resolved in a single window and with a single procedure. Because the IMV motion for a resolution that we are only collecting and sending to Social Security today will be fully managed as with any transfer in Euskadi. We will analyze, resolve and pay, and we will also realize all resources. And don't cheat on the lonely, Mrs Kortajarena, because we're talking about basic state legislation. You are in the Congress of Deputies, you have participated actively in the elaboration of this norm, in the presentation. I understand that they voted positively for the validation of the Royal Decree. They will vote affirmatively to the law, surely, because they really do not make speeches against minimum living income, as here is heard with income guarantee income, being income guarantee income much more complete than minimum living income. And you tell me about people who remain outside the scope of income guarantee income protection. You know, and it is true, and this is the reality, you know that the Basque Government acts in accordance with the current law; and the current law is the one we have and it is the one that we fulfill day by day in Lanbide when the income-guarantee income collectors arrive to ask for it. You also know, because I have met with you and explained to you, that the new law, the new draft that the Basque Government is working on, contemplates many more assumptions. That is why I expect your active, proactive collaboration in the work of this law when it comes to this House in time and form in the work of the paper, and that we reach an agreement to allow all those people who are now leaving us. Therefore, we continue to work on this agreement that has been reached between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Government of Spain, which will materialize it through the Joint Transfer Commission and will allow us, with the new law in the approved Parliament, to be able to take much better care, jointly, of the routes of inclusion of those who are at risk of vulnerability. And above all repeat, lastly, this added benefit of the agreement, which is a political effect resulting from the agreements, that only when agreements are reached do great political progress be made. And it is that this agreement will allow you to have approved general state budgets, which you will apparently also approve, and that I do not understand why here in Euskadi you do not seem to have the same interest in approving them, as you have in the Congress of Deputies, being perfectly aligned budgets... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... Euskadi, it does not seem that they will have the same interest in approving them, as they have in the Congress of Deputies, being perfectly aligned and congruent budgets.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Your time is up. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, Gustavo Angulo García Together Podemos-Ezetz, a member of the Second Vice Presidents and Work and Empedugu, the head physician of the Museum of Guggenheim." Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u63	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs. Mendia. Egun on guztioi, especially the Guggenheim workers who are with us today. And it's that the Guggenheim workers have been on strike for 153 days, exactly since June 11, demanding decent working conditions. After 20 years, they have become tired and have said: enough; enough of marathon days, enough of indecent wages, of work inequalities because of gender. The workers of the Guggenheim are calling for the elimination of the existing wage gap and the improvement of their wages, which are exactly the same as when they started. And many of them have been doing this work since the museum was inaugurated. The average wage is around 600 euros per month, not to mention the hours, the workloads, which are literally unsustainable, the casualties of companions who are not covered, and meters and square meters of museum to be cleaned in a time that does not give them. And how did you get to this situation? For, simply and simply, with the classic system with which many women come close with their resumes to companies of temporary work subcontracts. And that's when they encounter a work polarization: for them, highly feminized jobs, endless working days, smaller wages – in the best case, in this case, there are 900 euros – while for them, because they are men, they are given better jobs, such as glassware or cleaners on public roads, with far higher wages and better working conditions. And in view of this situation, what was the response of the representatives of the museum and the contracting company? First, the threat of dismissal, another classic. Seeing that this did not come into effect, police pressure while exercising their legitimate right to strike. And since it didn't work, and as a third and final option, there was an information vacuum. This summer we've been puffed up to read the news of Puppy's flowers and the need for Puppy to change her flowers. In all places Puppy came out; and in very few places the workers' demands came out. Therefore, after five months of strike, after all this time without receiving a salary from these workers, from my parliamentary group, we ask you what actions the Department of Labour and Employment is taking to unblock this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u64	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u65	Yes, thank you. My department, as the labor authority that is, like the Ministry of Labour that runs your party, acts in collective conflicts; and the legitimacy of collective bargaining lies with the company and its representatives. And we, both business representatives and trade union representatives know, are at their disposal to be facilitators of such solutions. There is some very recent, well-known case in which we have been able to respond to complicated collective bargaining and to offer our services successfully to find agreed solutions. On this specific occasion referred to in your oral question, we have not received any requests to speak. The last time we offered it, in this particular case, was last Friday and, today, we have not received any response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u67	Thank you. As is the Guggenheim Museum, a museum with a large majority of public funding, I think it is up to the Administration to get closer to solving this problem. In short, they are working in a public space. And I find it shocking, moreover, that it is recurrent that in all the Basque museums there is a year and another is given this same situation. A couple of years ago there was Artium, Tabakalera, Fine Arts of Bilbao; the Guggenheim is not the first time, on several occasions. And this is because of the management model that has been chosen, a model of precarious management with the working conditions of the people who are working there. Do you realize the frustration these ladies have to have when they listen to the radio or ads against the pay gap and see that their administration does not approach them? If we approach the labrecha website, how many of the complaints made by these cleaning workers at the Guggenheim are reflected on this website? Lack of business awareness, sectoral segregation, occupational segregation...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u68	Thank you. Time is up. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u69	Look, the full answer to the question you are asking today in this House has been with you for a month, because Euskal Herria Bildu asked it in writing. In any case, I will use the question you are using, which you have asked today to update the information of that given answer, and it has not changed much because the strike is ongoing. And as for what you're asking, what are the actions of the department I'm running, they're the ones we've already explained. The first, which, upon receipt of the communication, the Guggenheim Museum Foundation requested minimum services and the Labour Directorate did not consider them appropriate. Secondly, the Labour Inspectorate ensures that the right to strike is respected without external or internal havoc, i.e. by other companies or persons of the same company not linked to the cleaning service. And we also don't have any complaints about a fact of this kind. Thirdly, we have expressed on several occasions, the last one just a week ago, our willingness to facilitate a solution to the conflict from respect, which is what this House should have, from respect for collective bargaining, without having obtained any response. Therefore, and as you will know from the reply already provided to this Parliament in writing, maximum respect for... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ...collective action, without any response. Therefore, and as you will know from the reply already provided to this Parliament in writing, maximum respect for collective bargaining and maximum willingness also to seek agreed solutions. Those are our actions that scrupulously follow the principles of the ILO, which I hope you will share with me too. With regard to the fundamental reasons, which may be job insecurity, with regard to precariousness, I fully agree that a solution is being sought through the social dialogue table within the framework of the Government of Spain and the Ministry of Labour and other ministries participating in this agreement. And with regard to the wage gap, in particular in the cleaning sector, last February I re-edited and sent to this Parliament a book, The Work of Equal Value, which precisely analyses inequalities and the wage gap in the cleaning sector. But two weeks ago I also held a day on equality in collective agreements, where we released the first study on equality and the gap in the various agreements. It is available on the Internet for anyone who wants to read it. And on the next 24th we will have a day where we will focus on the work of the Labour Inspectorate in this area. So our priority in the department is to work on equality and fight the pay gap. And for this too, as I said earlier in this sitting, we have programmes such as Morrokotudak, we support women's business leadership and we will also work for the role of women in rural areas, assisted by European funds. Therefore, this is the task in which we are and do not forget that collective bargaining belongs to the sphere of trade union representation and business representation and that we are willing to facilitate whenever requested and we have not received a request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interregation, made by Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, a Popula, a member of the Ciudadans to the governor and chief physician of the Autobernus, to defend the accusers." Mr. Gordillo is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u71	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government. Mrs. Garamendi, I'm so glad to see you here today with us. I have presented you with an inquiry that you and your team will undoubtedly have already analysed on the issue of possible measures to prevent fraud and corruption. As is known in all advanced societies, in all, of this none is free, corruption is a problem of particular gravity. It is a citizen's concern and always has consequences on the administrations themselves and the perception that ends up having of the functioning of the institutions. There is customer use of public funds, this is evident, and this sends a very negative message about how public power should work. European legislation itself, there is a directive that was adopted some time ago on the protection of complainants, because it has deepened on this issue, and in fact it has put in place a number of measures to ensure that states transpose a number of regulations to protect complainants. As you well know, people who work for or are in contact with a public or private harmonisation organization are often the first to know that certain irregularities are occurring. In addition to this, what often happens is that these people are often discouraged or discouraged from denouncing these possible processes or decisions made by their bosses, colleagues, etc., because they are afraid of possible reprisals. It is very common for us to be aware of these kinds of issues and that finally people who could perfectly denounce it and therefore open a procedure, and therefore improve the functioning of our administrations, because at last they do not do so. These people who report violations that are detrimental to the public interest, are often called, as you well know, (?), those who play the whistle, the call for attention, and therefore play a key role, a very important role. But as I told you, these potential whistleblowers often give up for fear of possible reprisals, which are of many kinds. We know many cases in Spain, we know many cases in all the autonomous administrations. In this context, the famous directive on the protection of complainants is adopted. As you know, the directives are rules which oblige the Member States to set targets and, in this case, the coordination of Spain, the central government, to take the necessary measures to transpose these rules. Indeed, as you well know, the deadline, the deadline for transposing these directives was 17 December this month, so I think the central government is going a little late, because even though I know, perhaps you have better information, there has been no bill before... or the Congress of Deputies, and then it is allowed, the directive allows a couple more years to develop certain measures, in the case of companies that have a certain number of workers. What are the key measures for this? Well, the fundamental measures of this directive essentially what it will do are to ensure the confidentiality of the entire complaint process, to protect the complainant from reprisals, and especially those working in public institutions by guaranteeing possibilities for mobility from one site to another, and to establish a sanctioning regime. There are very important elements. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we can all agree that we must have special vigilance, there is the issue of public procurement. As is known, public procurement accounts for approximately 20% of Spanish GDP. The case of Euskadi has never been able to calculate it, it would be interesting, by the way, but it is likely to be a little above even Euskadi's own GDP. The subject of... I say 20% of Euskadi's GDP. The protection of consumers or the selection of staff themselves at the service of public administrations. What we have seen, we all know cases in which there are times when irregularities have occurred here, that the truth is that they demerge the institutions themselves in the background. I think we have tools to fight this. I was saying that a very important part of the legislation that will have to be transposed from this directive, counselor, you are perfectly aware,... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] I was saying that a very important part of the legislation that will have to be transposed from this directive, Madam Councillor, you are perfectly aware that it will be up to the central government to do so, that is, that the central government that will have to draw up a plan and, above all, will have to make major changes in matters that affect even fundamental rights, will have to change issues relating to the Criminal Code, including criminal prosecution. That's obvious. And basic legislation, which obviously the Basque Government has no competence to do so. I'm not gonna ask you to do that. That's obvious, no. I'm not asking you at all. But, man, I think there are things that can be done in our field without having to wait any longer. On the other hand, as other times has been done. And, above all, because I believe that in this case we can send a message of modernity from our administrations, that you will agree with me that I believe that it is not only necessary, but that we would do everyone a great favour. There are autonomous communities, as you know, that have already adopted regulations, sometimes in the form of laws, most of the time, on this issue. Sometimes even create specific organisms. Well, there are different alternatives, Castile and Lion, Aragon. The last, as you well know, this summer, seems to me to have been in June, Andalusia is the last to have passed a law on this issue. Your department, Mrs Garamendi, is very busy with parliamentarians, as you know, with a lot of laws, many of them that are called modernizing. You know, I have a certain critical opinion on the subject of... which involve a genuine modernisation of the administration. But well, in your speeches you always say that you are very committed to what is the modernization of administrations. And, moreover, I just heard Mr Lehendakari a while ago because he is also very committed and I have listened to him because he is of course committed to the fight against fraud, corruption and so on. With this, I understand that this is an important point that your Government wishes to highlight. That's why I'm telling you, instead of... let's... Of course, we parliamentarians are analysing laws that have raised us and that some, as you well know, have raised up to two or three legislatures. But what I'm proposing... And I always try to propose measures that are also somewhat modernizing sometimes from the very laws that ask me, with little success I have to say, I hope you can help me with the groups that support the Government, because I have proposed measures such as the creation of the statute of a public manager, proposals such as an independent agency for the recruitment of senior managers or an independent agency for the evaluation of public policies or that the senior officials have to appear simply before being appointed altogether, in short, with little success so far, I hope you will help me. That is why I take this opportunity to ask you again for your help and I would like your Government to look into this issue. That I haven't seen it on the government's legislative agenda, I haven't seen it. And that's why I think it's particularly important. Surely the Counsellor will remind me of a number of mechanisms below. I say this because in another opinion of the Government they have already put it in writing. A number of mechanisms are said to be available for the prevention of fraud and corruption. And maybe even quotes them to me by this order. You will tell me, man, there is the Office of Economic Control, there is the equivalent, for example, of the municipalities and local entities, there is the Basque Court of Public Accounts, you have, Mr Gordillo, the Ararteko, the Agency for Data Protection, the Personnel Registration Service, the Code of Ethics and Conduct and a few more. And, man, I tell you, yes, they are. Some would have to reform them in a certain sense. Nor have we reformed the Court of Auditors. I would have liked to go further. Anyway, in the end the agreement because it was possible it was the one we finally had. But, in any case, I believe that here we have a very important margin of improvement. That is why I believe that these mechanisms that you will certainly refer to, and if not, well, as we have already reminded you, are not enough. And I believe that it is necessary to establish a number of additional mechanisms that, above all, do one thing, Madam Counsellor, which is to protect the confidentiality of the process. That is to say, if you look at and analyse what the laws that have been adopted in other autonomous communities are, for example, the case of Andalusia, because here you always refer to some very important issues: the protection of the complainant, guaranteeing him confidentiality not only to her, but also throughout the complaint process, and above all a complaint with full guarantees, not only of confidentiality, but, well, because certain evidence can also be provided, etc. And then a series of rights of those complainants, including protective measures. You will again insist that there are issues here that need to be regulated through basic legislation or state legislation. I will give you the reason in part on that issue. But I also tell you that we have competence at an autonomous level to exercise these kinds of issues and to really regulate the status, at least a minimum, of the complainant. I think that's what we'd get into... We are no longer at the forefront in this case of what public administrations are, but at least we would come out, I believe, on this issue of the tail van. That is why, Commissioner, I am very interested in you today: what are the purposes of your Government, as well as you, as Secretary of the Government, regarding the adoption of measures for the defence of whistleblowers, especially in cases of fraud and corruption, in the autonomous sphere? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u72	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u73	Mr. President, chiefs, members of the Parliament, Mr. Gordillo, good morning. Mr Gordillo, taking account of the literal nature of your initiative, asks me about the aims of this Government, indeed, in relation to the adoption of measures for the defence of persons reporting cases of fraud and corruption in the autonomous sphere. As indicated in the justification for the initiative, there is a European Directive, in particular 2019/1937, on the protection of persons reporting infringements of European Union law. This directive must, as I said, be transposed by the Member States before the end of the year. As such, the first consideration I would like to share with you is that of the opportunity to address an autonomous regulation at this time. It would not seem prudent for this Government to venture into the design and implementation of measures that could soon be illogical or outmoded in the light of the state's regulation of the directive. It is also not necessary to remind him how the facts would develop if from certain political positions any glimpse of the assumption of state powers by this Government was prevented, which, by the way, does not happen in the opposite direction... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... The European Parliament and the Council should be given the opportunity to take action in the field of education and training. This, by the way, does not happen in the opposite direction, when we witness the proliferation of laws that contribute to the erosion of the Basque competition. After this reflection on the opportunity, I return to the European Directive 2019/1937. The fact is that it is not an easy task to misunderstand the content of their policy mandates. In fact, it devotes little substance to what is described in the title of the proposed standard on the protection of whistleblowers or whistleblowers. It contains more side-by-side analyses of the conditions of corruption in various sectoral areas, and in particular in the field of housing. In addition, it stops profusely in the characterization of corruption and in the description of the context in which the informant finds himself/herself of possible violations because of his/her insertion in the entanglements of labour relations. In short, the directive does not describe or develop in depth what is intended in the specific facet of protection for persons reporting alleged infringements, even though they do play a key role, as they are often the first to know of threats or harm to the public interest. In this regard, it could be corrected that the contributions under administrative law are more theoretical. They may, in practice, be confined to the existence of private and internal channels of complaint, to the protection and management of anonymity, and to the existence of registers and reaction procedures. All this with a huge substantive debate on the non-affection of the many fundamental rights that are connected. I believe that the true vision of the protection of complainants is rather from the procedural perspective, which lies within the scope of the administration of justice. It seems prudent and common sense, as I said, to wait for the transposition of the directive in order to respond, in order to know, before the end of 2021 of the Spanish Government. Having made this first approximation to the European standard, allow me, Mr Gordillo, to bring back some background to the approach underlying your inquiry. In the Congress of Deputies, the debate on a bill for anti-corruption measures was backed up, which was rejected mostly on 17 June 2020. Subsequently, this year, 2021, they submitted a proposal for an organic law on anti-corruption measures and for the protection of whistleblowers, whose processing has not yet been completed. It is all the less curious that parts of the justification for their inquiry are literally reflected in such an initiative. It is not my intention to focus attention on the proposing group of that initiative, but to express the contradiction that gives me the feeling that in such a short period of time I will come up with a regulation of this issue by means of a state law, then an organic law, and now the debate in this House will be triggered. This is the fact that, taking into account the same scope of action, at the same time, state laws are required in its latest version with organic rank, and for which an autonomous government is called upon, it evokes a panorama of contentious certainly confused, all in a context of sharing of competences of an entire autonomous state. In the debate, held in Congress, the parliamentary groups have already expressed their opinion on the proposal for a law of the Citizens group, which explicitly pursued the mission that now occupies us on actions, regulations to transpose the directive. The debate criticized the lack of vision that implied a direct approach by Parliament, regardless of the desirability of it being a government initiative, accompanied by the proper studies and technical reports required for this endeavour, whose substantive content is, above all, as the Criminal Code and the procedural legislation on criminal prosecution have said. The debate also reflected on the question of the need for nothing in the strict administrative sphere, and whether very much in the judiciary, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police at his service. The oblivion of the private sector referred to at the same level of the directive was criticised. Among many other issues, they were reminded of the organic law reserve for many of the aspects that it intended to regulate; I suppose this has all resulted from the current organic law proposal that continues in Congress. In view of this scenario, I say to you, with total sincerity and a point of concern, that the approach underlying your inquiry certainly seems to me to be decontextualized. The answer is simple. First, organic, criminal and judicial legislators must have a clear approach. And then, perhaps, we can be better placed in the Basque area. In any case, there is a fundamental question of which, as public servants of Basque citizenship, we cannot and should not be abstract: I am referring to the principle of integrity. Euskadi already has a legal-institutional framework, as I said, that promotes integrity and transparency, as well as preventing and combating corruption. In the same way, as head of the Governor and of the State, I have amongst my powers to penetrate into the politics of the institutions, the public charities and public workmen, because they strengthen the public government, and above all an image of the seriousness of the Euskion and the public sector. I wager for a certain culture and administration: With values, ethics, and pure standard imperturbability that counts. By helping the citizens to strengthen their confidence in the public manager. On this score, as you know, the section I correct has predicted that you should accept a law project about transparency, which is distributed in the legislation. That could be the best stage for planning things like today. By this time, of course, it would be best to have a clear circle of rules which might reflect and continue in that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. Mr. Gordillo, your word is... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u75	Thank you, President. The truth is that I was listening to her with great interest and I say, man, it does not look like the same counselor who sent us here to Parliament a law on the consolidation of the Basque public sector while we were awaiting the adoption of the legislation of the Basic Statute, which will depend on the effectiveness and effectiveness of any measure we adopt here. Man, I tell you, (?) We will not wait to see what is left of the state's legislation, to see what we can do and so on. Man, state law, in any case, an organic law will not establish competitive contours, as surely you and your team already know, but the competitive contours are already established. You have some very interesting laws to fix, for example, there is the last one, which is the Andalusian law, but there is that of Aragon, there is that of Valencia, which I think have been very useful in Aragon and Valencia, for example, since some channels were really established with guarantees, that that can be done at an autonomous level, some channels really with important guarantees, there have been hundreds of complaints that have helped to solve many issues. We have recently had this, and next week we will probably talk about the famous case of the consultants, that is, I believe that we guarantee the complainants to the extent of our possibilities the more channels better, because I think that is the right thing to do. But it is not a question of whether this is the channel or the mechanisms that Euskadi establishes, which the State establishes, that is, as you well know, Mrs Garamendi, both the criteria of the OECD, which is at the heart of the development of this directive, and, come on, what is laid down in all the programmes also of compliance is to feed these types of channels and to do so in all possible spaces: the autonomous space, the local space, in our case even, of course, in the outer space, etc. That is why it is not easy to establish a regulatory outline, if you want me to help you already, I make myself available to the legal team of your department to give you a hand and I am sure that together we come to the drafting of a bill that is important. That is why, Mrs Garamendi, I put it to you as a question, because I believe that, as a complex issue, because it can give rise to complexity, you have indeed mentioned the subject of amending the Criminal Code, which will essentially be that, something of the Criminal Procedure Act. I have put it to you because you have a number of mechanisms at your disposal, and I think that a law like this is ideal for it to be put forward in the form of a bill, and therefore come with the relevant reports, and that is why I am asking the Government to consider it in order to establish it in its legislative timetable and to have a bill in this Parliament and with all the guarantees to do so. You tell me: let's wait and see what happens at national level. The truth is that it is a novelty, I believe, on the part of your Government, to do this sort of thing, but, well, we will, in the end, continue to raise it, because I believe that it is not necessary to wait, that is, I believe that some arrangements can perfectly be made and then if we can actually go a little further, because it could be modified. We have amended the Court of Auditors Act and the Budget Act has another amendment, that of the Court of Auditors, that is to say, I do not think it is an inconvenience that we can start work already, especially since the legislative process lasts a long time. That is why, Mrs Garamendi, I believe that the most important thing here is to take the measures that are in our hands. When you take the measures that are in our hands, and this has been shown by reports from many foundations, for example, the Foundation There is Right, whose page I recommend to your team and to you also if you have time, of course, if you have not done so anymore, and that you read the reports there about the complaints and how the complaints of anonymous people who were... They are either part of the Administration or certain companies, they have contributed very efficiently to establishing investigations, and above all what is sought here, that is, of course, to punish the people who have failed to comply with the legislation, but what is being sought with this is above all to disincentive possible behaviors, and from this, Mrs Garamendi, is that no one is freed. The human being is as corrupt as the legislation allows him to be. That is why I think it is appropriate to tackle this problem, which is a reality in all areas, is that the contrary I believe is to deny a reality and to approve the measures that may be in our hands, so I think we would lose a very important opportunity if we did not take the opportunity to develop right now, moreover, that the question concerning the complainants is beginning to move, regulating this part of the autonomous sphere. If, in fact, you tell me later, well, it is that perhaps the state goes further, because indeed, what happens is that, of course, the directive speaks of Union law, the state, therefore, is going to do so in the area of Union law, perhaps we get it to go a little further and do it also in the area of national law, but well, I would like it in the autonomic area, in the area of Euskadi, because we also have these guarantees which I believe are very beneficial for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u76	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. My Lady Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u77	Mr. Gordillo, let me add to everything I have hitherto explained to you that the second round of your interpelation is one of the greatest concerns for corruption and corruption. First, it is not an intention, my intention, of these events, which may be repugnant to the removal of importance, and restrict the confidence of the citizens in their institutions. I told you about Congress on my first round. And Spain and Euscadi are different realities. That's right. Of course, discussions cannot be extrapolized from one reality to another, in the same terms, without considering the context. It might be true that there is considerable concern among the citizens of the Spanish State about corrupt and fraudulent practices; instead, if we look to the social reality of Euskadi, according to the Basque Sociometer, only one percent of the people surveyed point to corruption and fraud as one of our main problems, the twenty-second of the list. A fact that is kept in the last studies... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...and fraud as one of our main problems. Twenty-second of the list. A fact that is maintained in the latest published studies. And this data is also endorsed, with the level of confidence that Basque society shows in its institutions. 78% of those surveyed rely on the Basque Government, which is only surpassed by the University. I am convinced that you recognize the professionalism and rigour of these studies. In any case, I will also mention an external observer: the recent study of the University of Gothenburg. This report, with a total of 129,000 surveys carried out in 208 regions of Europe, i.e. the largest survey ever carried out to measure the government's quality perceptions, places Euskadi in the first position as a government within the state. The study also points out that we have been steadily improving despite the decline in the overall average in the State. This data has great value, not only for the position in the ranking, but for the indicators that make it up: impartiality in the treatment of citizens; corruption, that is, that there is no abuse of public office for private benefit; and the quality of public services. As you see, Mr Gordillo, Euskadi enjoys a quality of management and trust on the part of the citizenry, which this House should actually be proud of. It is not an excuse to stay in the place where we are; on the contrary, it is the greatest aggravation to continue working in the same direction. But, returning more directly to the subject of his inquiry, and without prejudice to what I have already mentioned to him on the regulation of persons reporting possible violations, the fact is that we already have an institutional legal framework to promote integrity and promote transparency and prevent and combat corruption. I would remind you, although you have already pointed out briefly, all the Basque public administrations have instruments of economic and budgetary control and control: we have the Basque Court of Public Accounts, which has recently renewed its regulation. We have the figure of Ararteko, the Personnel Registration Service, the Public Ethics Commission, the Basque Commission for Access to Public Information, the judicial bodies that make up the Criminal Court in Euskadi and the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, etc., without forgetting all those attached to the rest of the Basque institutional framework. In addition, as I indicated in my first speech, we have planned to draw up a transparency bill, which aims to structure and strengthen the system we have established, with emphasis on active advertising, the right of access and citizen participation. I hope to count on your help and that of this House to contribute and enrich this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. Number of points in theme list: "Appeal by Unai Fernandez de Betoño Saenz de Lacuesta EHGGGGGGregs made for economic development, patience, and environmental chief, "about the exposure of "good-level public interest" projects. Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u79	Yeah. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Chief of Tapia. To place the subject a little, then, in November 2020, the Administration Act was introduced by EAJ and PSE, as we believe in the former law. And that's a sign that they've put more than 100 self-commands on their heads. And if this were few, there is an amendment of the 61st, which alters all things for us. This is precisely the reason why EH Collect should leave the law project. Why? It seems to us that it brings an unprecedented attack upon the organization of the country, and to the administration of the municipal jurisdiction, and consequently to the autonomy of the townships. We have tried to change this amendment, to remove it, but in vain; By this recommendation, what is to be done is, after all, to change the law of the Land-Adolation from the root, and consequently to the State. I mean, picking up the Environmental Department that covers... The D.H.C., which directs the Taps, and draws the environment from the department, will change at least one of the most important laws of the department in Arriol, of the land organisation. And, indirectly, we believe that it also changes the law of the Earth, so that of the two most important laws of the Arrian Department, together with the Housing Law. What does the amendment propose? Create a project of superior public interest, which doesn't exist right now. The projects, I'm sure the State Council will name them by suggestion from the department that collects environments, so they'll be named now by recommendation of Tap. And thus all the named projects, all the plans of the country and of the city, must be admitted, though contrary to their judgment. And this alters, we believe, all the contact established from 1990, or the whole scheme of planning, not only because it changes the rules of the game, but the table of the game itself. The three principal tools that were established in the Order of the 1990 Land Act, guidelines, partial plots, and tractal plans, and these projects will be overrated, although these plans are opposed to these projects for a reason or for another reason, they must be changed to accept or to make room for those projects. What kind of projects would they be? In principle, the text says that there will be great sub-structions in public suffrages. They can be real parks, sunny parks, garbage and stuff. If they have a certain justification of environment. But it is also mentioned that there may be great equipments, if they always have some justification for environmental justification. There may be something made about an old cross-death, for instance, a golf course... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... if they have some justification. There may be something made on an old crossboard, e.g. a golf course, which we believe to be, or a different project. I think it will be better, for instance, with a more accurate one. It's... a Gastine example, an example of Shesa, Sociedad de Hidrocarbios de Euskadi. As you know, the Armentia has been trying to make a well for years, and the most difficult thing he's ever encountered has been the General Gastine plan. There's been a city. General Gastial Plane had this area covered in front of the extraction projects. And that's why Shesa met that city-class protection. What would happen if the top-level public interest project were to be nominated by the suggestion of Tap? General Gastine Plan should swallow up this project, though contrary to its criteria. It is clear, therefore, that these projects will also exceed the municipal autonomy. And we believe all this to be going against one of the principal ideas of organisation and city-making, because they are trying to put precise projects in the literary perspective above the organisational plan. Very bad, Chief of Tapia. You want to scratch against one of the principal ideas that follow from Europe in the field of organizational territory. Since it was tested in 1999, the European housing strategy, and last year it was tested on all the plans between 2030 and all the strategies mentioned that one of the columns is an integrated organization. And you, in this project, blow up that concept. What's the excuse for this opposition? That's for you to answer. But, apparently, we want to make a better progress in public establishment environments. That's a little excuse. The problem is, we don't know how far that gum is going to go, whether it's a public promoter or a improvement of the environment. For clarus is said in one place to the Publique Restoration, but afterwards to the Adderation.(...) You're going to a point2, and it also says that these projects can be made by concession. So we also believe that the door opens to private initiative. And, on the other hand, we are seeing the improvement of environments for you that almost anything can be justified under that caption. I remember your quarrel with the Otero member two years ago. You said pandemy in the last budget debated 373 million in the budget to fight climate emergency. And when you asked for more information, you explained what these projects were: A train of high speed, a way to stay in the Bilbo area, a whimsy past the Donostian subway... And I remember the incluso in the Erendi, the Axpe industry (orma? that it was you who fought the climate emergency. And so we find it very dangerous to what extent, to justify the gum you can value, to the extent of the anbient improvement or improvement of those highly important projects of public interest which you wish to create in this amendment. We really think that if you're having interesting projects, you can go on in a different way, don't mind the country planning and you don't have to step on the autonomy city. The sactorial territory, for instance, may be a proper place. What do you mean, we have to make an oil park? Is it supposed to be a solar park? Let's make the reorganized energy plan for once and for all, you've been promised months and months this sectorial planet of territory. And let us here consider the conformity of these specific projects, under a wider view, considering the balance of the land, considering the cohesion of the land. It is impossible to understand why these projects of public interest should be imposed upon. And in this way, you want to change the Land Organising Law by the back door very strangely. Why does not a change of the Order of the Land? And what's going to be discussed in a situation created by the Land Plang Committee? Because the change you're proposing is substantial. And I don't think you've ever looked at them, technically, because they have subbanistic effects, because maybe even the Earthzoru law has to change. So we think we have to do this better, we have to take it easy. You want to do it? Do it. If you will, do it, but, as it is proposed, a proper change of the Law of the Ordiment. So the question is, chief of Tapias: Why do you want to impose these public interests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u80	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u81	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Fernandez de Betou, is it a urgent law that brought us the law? .). And, on the other hand, one thing is clear. Perhaps you don't like it, but you don't impose it on the majority, by the way that most people have given us. Let's remember. And the law is studying in a form, not in any way at the back door, or in any way secretly or publicly. He was placed in public, in a pomp and the dispute of a law. All the mechanism, then, is clear and distinct from transparency. Everyone knows that a few projects, which are highly interested and needed for the whole euscal society, may be that some people, in some circles, have the right influence on some of the townships, and that the neighbours are not fond of it. We know that. And... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... we know that some of the townships have a right influence on some of the townships, and that they are not the favourites of the neighbourhood. And we have seen more than once, and we see that we do not approve of certain projects, although we have seen, protected, and acknowledged social interest in the members of the community and political representatives. It is clear, therefore, that these are necessary projects, that they are of public interest, but when we go where we are concerned, we are in trouble. That's why it's not surprising (NIMBY? ), to appear this more and more often. This concept was long since founded, many decades ago, and even in the United States. And what does that ultimately mean? I don't care about my house, even if it's interesting, but I don't care about someone else. I don't care in another place, but I don't care about my house. So, where's the neighbourhood? Where is a certain solidity? That's what's missing us when he's around me. And this, in a clear and clear example, has been in the gymica when we set up the crematorium: what problems had a public-interest infrastructure in order to get ahead of them? And often these agents, therefore, will and party, would say that they place a particular pointer above all the rest. And though in some places this confession is publicly interesting, then, when it comes to the council, we are in trouble. Now, as a public representative, I think we ought all to take care, in a manner, to say: if they are of public interest, they are of the interest of our people, even of my petty people and of the people of the Basque Country. And speaking of projects and infrastructures that may be linked to the environment, we are talking about water purification treatment facilities, reception facilities, treatment, management, recovery and disposal of waste, waste processing plants for recycling and recovery, crematories and others that respond to the whole of Basque society and must be located in the most suitable location for this. And for that we have to work from a more holistic conception satisfying all kinds of needs. And now that Mr. Otero is right next to you, the budget you were talking about, we put together some of the projects that you didn't think it was like animal improvements. Now, from the anvial point of view, from the environmental view, you know that there are mitigation and adalation. And we're going to have some measures for the mitigation, and some for adaptation. And here are works, after all, to bring a dam up a port, or a mountain fall for water to subject it to us. And that, too, is a work. Of adaptation, yes, it is not mitigation, but it is work. And the play, from the environmental point of view, to the care of it. I know it's complex to accept local projects that can alter our environment. It is true that it impacts the landscape and that in a moment we can question whether that is of general interest or not. But it is necessary for a social service and for a service to the community. And at this moment allows us to fight, it must allow us to fight against global warming and to walk towards the decarbonization of our territory. On some occasions it has occurred at the municipal level that it has opposed this situation using, as you said, urban planning, territorial planning to avoid the implementation of a certain action that is, I insist, good for the general interest. And with this trend we can find ourselves in that... Not too late can we find ourselves in a situation of risk, of course, to our community in the face of the need to eliminate waste from both urban and industrial activities. And also here we can find that we do not want to set up waste treatment facilities, but we do not care to load them in a truck and take them to the neighbouring community. And, therefore, we find ourselves again in the same concept. And that wouldn't be the worst, but besides the famous NIMBY, we can have, and we're already moving on to this other, another concept that is much worse still, which is what Americans call the BANANA, which is Build Absolutely Nothing Anywhere Near Anything, that is, never build anything anywhere near anything. I mean, we've already come to "don't touch anything." And we are, of course, dangerously approaching that situation. And surprisingly, I am very surprised that we are in that situation at a time when we have to move forward – and we were just talking to the lehendakari a while ago –, moving forward intensively, with clear actions, of course, towards decarbonization, towards the implementation of the circular economy and towards rationalization in the use of resources and in the sustainability of the system. If we're really thinking that's what we have to do, let's put in the means to do it. We must ensure that through territorial planning there are territorial plans – I agree with you – that involve processes of strategic reflection and that, in addition, they bring consultation with all actors. But it is also true that, as a result of the fact that at some point there may be a position against a certain infrastructure, we are delaying the debate in such a way that we find ourselves in a situation of near collapse. And that can happen to us with the waste in Euskadi right now if we do not take the appropriate measures. We don't have too much time. And if we're dealing with the change of climate and the transition of energy, and we have to start the environmental infrastructure, then let's do it right, but let's do it in time and time. It'll be part of the government to discuss it. You said: "Seá solictud de Tapia, a propuesta de Tapia." Yes, because I'm wearing it. If someone else took it, it's all the same, but the Government Council will decide. And the Council of Government will decide what a project is, and what it is and what it is; And the agreement field should also be carried very well. And in this sense, too, it is also to prevent the remains which we have prepared at the present moment, and, as is shown by the plan of managing it, a sectorial plan will be set to work. And that's how we'll do it. But in the meantime, we can't stop... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... as is expressed in it, a sectorial plan will be set to work. And we'll do it like that, but we can't stop it while we're doing it. No. We'll do nothing until we do it. 2030 is tomorrow. And we need them for tomorrow. We do not place ourselves above the private interests of the place. Or general interest projects are well defined. It is a legal mechanism, by the way, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, which is being implemented in more than 11 communities in the Spanish State, including three of which surround us. Navarre, the one with your back on it. So you won't be very against it. Singoria or Errioxia, even Madrid, Andalucia, Aragonia, Castile-La Mancha, Murcia, Valentia, Extrematur, among others. The solution we propose has been adopted by a multitude of autonomous communities and other places. And, of course, it is working with absolute normality, because, in that sense, the process of declaration of what is a project of general interest, its processing, the characteristics of that project, who are its promoters, the conditions, the determinations it has to comply with and the working documentation also in the environmental field that this project requires to be carried out. It is an absolutely guaranteed and perfectly regulated process, which has been used, and it is not novel elsewhere. And if, as you mention, it holds good in the Navarre, why the community is not fit in the autonomous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u83	Thank you, Chief of Tapia. I really didn't think you'd bring PSIS of Navarre into this discussion because you've got everything to lose. Because they did it through PSIS figure, for instance, by making the Arocary project, or by forcing it up from Iruña to unfamily housing, a golf course, a hotel, etc., and so on, against what the municipal autonomys say. And they also planned it through PSIS figure in Gendulain. Remember what was in Gendulain: A whole city of 19,000 new housing, 10-15 miles from Iruña. So, if that's what I think is a very weak line of defence. You mentioned the transparence. Yeah, there's been a lot of interference. The bill of the law passes to Eudeli, let him report it, let him give his opinion, but then you receive it by repentance. And Eude has already given his opinion about the bill of law. He didn't say anything about the amendments. Don't worry, we called the Usera, too. And we've asked for his position, just like President of Eudel, to give his opinion here, because we think you're playing there with nothing but transparency in any way. Our interpelation question was very direct and clear. Why do you want to impose them? What's the big deal? You tell me the NIMBY effect. But even with these projects the movements of society will not be lowered. It seems to us that there is room for such a projectary system of our present planning to do so in a different way, in a calmer and more integrated point of view. You seem to be in a hurry now. And it's like you've been caught without doing your homework well. Because of the lack of reopening energy, the garbage crisis... You mentioned the collapse of the trash. Well, let's get that fixed. Let's get a tractor land plan to solve the trash problem. But don't leave the lake where you want this kind of project to be put in the position you want, with complete discretion. Besides, we're ready to talk about this sactorial plan around the trash. We really think that when you're making a mistake, you can't let the local arrangements go out the way you're making, you can't impose on the councils the projects that are the only ones that are suited to you, without any participation in any great part of the society. Don't put aside the right plan, chief of Tapias. Don't step aside the city's autonomy. And don't step aside. Look, EH Collector, as I said, we're not afraid to talk about strategic projects and agreeing. I'll give you three examples of the last few months. In May, we agreed to make an electric battery tour with you. That's why the Miñako Park Tech is going to open up. In your first question, you've even talked about it this morning, about 74 acres. That went on with our help, or even with our apolio. We've agreed to a page in June to direct the Basque Energy treaty with you, too. And so he's making a mess out of it. Very interesting. There's probably some project coming from there too. And we'll try to give him our opinion. And if they're interesting, if they really bring in a middle-class improvement, this theory of adoption seems a little questionable to me. Let's get in the deal, Chief Tapia chief. And in September, too, we have made an agreement with you in the law of preserving the natural faith. And that's where I imagine the interesting projects will be drawn, connected with the ecological corridors, and so on. So I want to show you that EH is ready for the agreements and that you will be with us in this field, if the projects are well planned and the municipal autonomy is respected. But if it's up to you to make a project integrate with us and put the councils out of a lake seat, and that's what you want to do with these projects, I'm sorry, but we'll be in front of you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u84	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Mrs. Tapia, your word is... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u85	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Fernandez de Betocho, it's not up to the lake. And I repeat, not to impose, because here, in this Camera, there is a majority given by the people. And then you insist, but the citizens have given us the majority. I'm sorry if you don't really like it, but that's the way it is. Not a match, but only a majority. On the other hand, our projects of interest, projects of general interest. And projects of general interest are very well defined: what they are, how they are managed, what reports they need. And the Government Council has made up its mind. There is a whole legislature of development, which gives a complete cooperation to such a law as this, which in this case gives real transparency and assurances to one of these amendments. That's right. That's right. That's what gives us this development. Is that what you're supposed to do? For a moment, there are some such infrastructurees, which are necessary, and which are of general interest, not anything in any way, of course. And for that, the Government Council will have to decide. But you mentioned how Navarro is applying it, but then you're full of contradictions. Why, if it's really bad, what do you do to protect the government? You either believe it or you don't believe it, but I really don't understand it. Persectorial territory plan, you're ready to examine the ruins, I'm glad we'll be working together. But while you work this out, as you know, a programtorial plan needs time. And while you're doing that, you're not gonna do anything? Because that's your theory. On the one hand, we're in a hurry, because we're in a climateal emergency, and we need action. But when we start the enterprises, no: We have to stop and think. What are we going to do, think or act? Or can we do both at the same time? If we really have a limit here in 2030, we have a massive limit to the wrecking point, so let's get started. And let's work on the theoryal plan, too. Yeah? It's true. But if everything is: "No, no. Not yet, but must we think this over?" Because you're doing nothing. Or think about it. Well, I think both can be effected at the same time. Give me your opinion and argue. Sure. And the power of the law, what is it for? Well, to give an opinion and to work, I think. And besides, people, experts, people can all be brought in. I guess you guys got 'em. So there's been time to discuss it, with all the transparency. You didn't like the amendment we put in and you went, well, very well. It's your choice, perfect. But it's your choice, isn't it? We don't have you. And on the other hand, mitigation and adapation aren't my theories, eh? I'm sorry, read a little, huh? Read a little, and if not, the one beside you will explain to you, and he knows a great deal about it. But, indeed, two things are capable, very concrete, which are very well examined in this sense. And finally, we really do not understand the political displeasure of your group when this Administration, of course, seeks to work out a legal instrument with all the guarantees and all the transparency to establish that figure, that of the higher public interest, with all the guarantees, and of course, that it is on the proposal of whoever is in the Department of Environment, yes, but that it is the Governing Council with all the advisers and advisers and with the lehendakari at the front, who debate and decide if it is so, under perfectly regulated premises. So, really, we don't understand where the problem might be. When, moreover, I insist, it is not a novel case, it has not occurred to us and there is this figure in a multitude of autonomous communities, and if it is regulated well and if it is worked well, it certainly offers all possible guarantees and that is our greatest interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "I'm asking questions about the speech of the Congress of the Casanova Alonso of the EH gathering team to the Chief of Economics, the Economy and the Environmental Department, in the presence of the many improper decisions of the Patronal funk." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u87	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, chief physician. Is it because you're saying a lot of pathetic statements and bad choices and activities that hurt the reputation of our people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u88	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u89	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Casanova, there are not expressions, but initiatives, on the one hand and on the other, that place our country in journals and various ways, and if it is to harm it, and the discussion is very imperfect, all are bad, which are given on one side and on the other side. They're all bad. If they put us in there in focus, something that's not very constructive.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u91	Mrs Tapia, as one minister would say, I will give you some data: Gestamp, after receiving an unconditional gift check from your government of 8 million, simultaneously closes a matrix; Petronor fined for overtime and with an ERTE cancelled in the courts; ITP, four ERTE and ERE cancelled consecutively in the courts; Aernnova putting in place an ERTE, forgiveness, an ERE with layoffs that has proved unnecessary in view of the increase in production, which will require the incorporation of new people; Alestis and Aernnova, ideological layoffs in the ERE, putting the first on the list to those activists of the unions who were most annoying. Statements by the employer to which reference has been made earlier claiming to imitate the tax policy of (?)Help in line with the (?) Basque disruptiveness, and I make a point here to tell you and the lehendakari, although it is not now, that the fact that an ultra-right Trumpet has emerged, does not make you less liberal right. Of course, you are liberal right and then you have the ultra-right. The president of the laves employers' union said that some unions carried out practices... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... You're a liberal right, and then you have the ultra-right. The president of the Alava employers' union said that some unions practiced mafia practices. The President of Confebask has said that the practices of some trade unions remind them of the times of violence in our country. And what did you say? Now it has begun to make a mage of recognizing that there can be on all sides wrong practices and declarations. But, publicly, your Government and your party have done all they have done is consistently align with the employer. Do what you do and say what you say. Mr. Urtaran, who, besides being mayor of Gasteiz, is president of all the Basque municipalities, has said no more or less "that the unions tighten the rope too much, that they generate tension and that they make it difficult for us to be attractive". Wouldn't those statements fit in Ayuso's mouth? To me perfectly. And you yourself, recently, have stated that the Tubacex strike has caused reputational damage to our country. To me comes to mind, when I heard these statements, that song of Paco Ibáñez, which was one of the signs of the transition, The bad reputation, and I suppose you will know it, which said that of "people do not like that one has their own faith". And it counted as in a closed society, in a suffocating society, at the time of Francoism having a free and critical thought generated a bad reputation. Well, it seems that, in certain environments in which you move, to which you belong and to which you would say at the service of which you are of the oligarchy of this country, strikes generate bad reputation. I believe that what generates bad reputation is the abuse of EREs and ERTEs by certain companies, and the unacceptable statements that the employer systematically gives us. And as I said in front of that, you never say. You never say. And that's the obvious fact that you're in favor of the patriarchal, you're on the side of the patriarchal. I believe that for a majority of this people, and in this majority, I would venture to say that among those who vote to you, the greater part of the people feel pride and admiration at the blows of Tubacex, because these workers have given us a lesson because they have protected their rights, their wages, and their employments. I believe that if this country has the highest wages in the state and labor relations are not the real law of the jungle, it is precisely for struggles like those that have developed in Tubacex and many other Basque companies. Always with her misunderstanding, always with her criticism and always with her systematic alignment with the employer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u92	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u93	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Casanova, as I said before, of course, conflicts are neither desirable nor, of course, generally beneficial to any of the parties. And the ideal is to seek a consensual solution that generates dynamics of understanding not in the short term, but a different way of doing it. And we've always worked it from that point of view. In a situation such as the post-covid, of course, let's say, and the critical moment of the covid, as an administration, it has been up to us to work so that the ERTEs could be put in place, so that we could complement them, so that of course there would be another type of aid that would mobilize funds that would enable those companies in which workers were present to stay in time and survive. And that was our job during this time. And of course, always, always looking for a solution to labor disputes. Not only from my department, but also to whom the labor authority belongs, from the department of Councilwoman Mendia. We have always sought that the conflict between the two parties will come to that solution that we could call ideal, without conflict on the streets; but obviously a strike is absolutely respectable no, but it is a right, of course. Another thing is that other conflicts arise as a result of that strike. Therefore, seeking consensus has always been our work, and she said it before, but on many occasions the search for consensus does not start only because we as a government do our work, but also because we ask for it. And as a department, of course, it will be many or few times that we have met, but each and every one of the meetings that have been requested by business unions, and even by the top of the unions, each and every one of them has been attended; attended in order to be able to speak with the workers' representatives and, consequently, also to make a bridge on some occasions with the directive part. We've always done it. Y lo que me extraa es ososa, señor Casanova, and you have often brought her to this parliamentary, and you have mentioned them to-day, who are well known companies, who have many men of high dimensions, but who have also been in this crisis with a lot of small corporations who have workers. And I've never heard a word about those companies. Never. You always bring big ones. There's a lot of noise in the press. But in this case, it's like fun and a department to be with them, but with those little ones that have strangers and also employees. Those who may have only 10 or 20, but who are left unemployed, as in the other. And these also must be defended. And I'm very surprised when you really say equality and rights and so on. Where are your defenses? Defending their rights, where is it? I've never seen him. And I'm really surprised at that from your point of view. We'll continue our case. The great, the small, the workmen, and the management of the country, to obtain an agreement with them all, and to bring them forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "The question is, that Elisabet González Rodríguz, together Podemos, a member of the Anizar Party, made by Economics and the Chief of Ogas, about the financial expense of the preceding 2022 bill."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u95	Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u96	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, chief. I know that these days they are on a tight agenda and very clever to try to convince the groups in this House that they are the budgets we need, that they meet the common sense criterion, that sometimes common sense is the least common sense. Are gehiago, kontuan hartzen badugu gobernu honek gizarte-murrizketen ereduari jarraitzen diola. Mr. Chief physician, the same idea can be repeated over and over again, but the mere repetition will not make it true... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... he follows her. Mr. Chief physician, the same idea can be repeated over and over again, but the mere repetition will not make it true. You can repeat that these are the most social budgets in history, but if this is not reflected in the games, it is far from being true. You pointed out, by presenting at the press conference the main objectives of the project, that it maintains its commitment to guarantee and improve social policies, eta hori de la aurreikusitako spenduaren % 77, osasunari, hezkuntzari eta gizarte-zerbitzuei dagokie. Can you tell us what criterion you use to say that these budgets contain the greatest social spending in history? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u98	Mrs. President of the legislature, members of the legislature, chief officers, Mrs. Gonzalez, good morning. You are asking about the facts that have been given, after the Euscataly 2022 Presumption Project, the commitment to guarantee and improvement of social policy, you have asked us about data on the percentage of the budget that has been assigned to social expenditure, and the growth of resources available by the Department to develop public policies. He tells me: "Does the counselor believe that these statements are realistic?", he tells me. Obviously. Of course I do, Mrs Gonzalez. And I am going to explain a few questions to you, because I understand that this budget may require further clarification in some data. First, the increase in the money available for additional public policies amounts to EUR 888 million, an increase of 7.6%. This is explained by the fact that the increase in actual expenditure of EUR 694 million is added to 194 million from the COVID Fund, which this year have not been included in the Fund and which will be devoted to other issues beyond the scope of the covid. If we have maintained the full amounts of the COVID Fund in Health and Education, with 185,4 and 95,6 million euros respectively. And the second question, that is, the percentage devoted to social policies in this budget, which is actually close to eight out of ten euros, as you said, specifically 76,8 %. And this increase, of course, this is a big increase that also occurs in social policy. What happens that this percentage drops in relation to... social expenditure, compared to the previous year because there has been a 50% increase in investment, and this in relative terms is what lowers the burden of social expenditure. However, this social burden, in absolute terms, is maintained and growing by more than EUR 403 million, more than 4.4% compared to the previous year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u99	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u100	Thank you, Mr. Subauzu, pero hay circumfras que no cuadran. But some numbers don't agree with what's said. If we mention social expenditures, health and education, even the essential ones, but they are not related to social politics, which are the fundamental foundation of social protection. Social expenditure, according to the RAE, is the set of current account transfers made without compensation and for redistribution purposes. Social spending remains the greatest indicator of how important vulnerable people, those who suffer inequality, those who do not have access to rights and services, those who suffer poverty or those who suffer social exclusion, are to a society. His claims do not fit with a budget cut in the GIR of almost 30 million euros. Are you so optimistic about the labour market? Do they really calculate such an important drop in perception? Or will they do it backwards, even further hinder access to this cornerstone of our social protection scheme? Maybe, to save. It does not fit us with a cut of 5 million earmarked for social emergency aid. It does not fit with a cut in social inclusion of 28 million, or with a cut in social action of 34 million, or with a cut in social services of more than 2 million. It does not fit with the cut in family support for the reconciliation and raising of more than 4 million. And it does not fit with its own gender impact report, where only 0.4 % of the budget has been allocated to specific equality policies. We don't get the bills, Mr. Azpiazu. Because a realistic budget with the intention of guaranteeing and improving social services would at least reverse the 7 % cut that they practiced in the GIR in 2012. A realistic budget that seeks to overcome gender inequality and ensure equal treatment for all citizens is not made up of 0.4% in equality policies. Some with a realistic commitment to social spending do not give figures with deception, but rather bet on social investment and foster the care economy as one of the poles of quality employment generation and social cohesion. We do not think that the declarations on social expenditure are realistic. Behin is a berriro erepikatzen duzue kontua bera. But as much as they repeat themselves many times they do not become truth. Counselor, no more bla-bla-bla.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u102	Yes, thank you. No more bla-bla-bla. Indeed. Look, I'm going to turn you around and I'm going to give you another kind of explanation too, so you can see that this country's social policies are not as negative or as bad as you propose. I will put you from our approach, which goes beyond the Gross Domestic Product. In the United Nations Sustainable Human Development Index, Euskadi, Ms. González, is among the top 15 countries in the world. But I tell you more, according to the welfare rankings made by the OECD, the BBVA Foundation and the Valencian Institute of Economic Research, which takes into account twelve variables related to material well-being, health and education, Euskadi is in the first position, in the first position. With regard to education, more than half of the Basque population between the ages of 25 and 64 has completed tertiary education. This puts us in the first position within the state and among the most advanced European regions in this variable. In the 30-34-year-old group, we also had a prominent position in Europe. In Euskadi, Mrs Gonzalez, in 2022 the per capita health expenditure increased again to 1,984 euros compared to 1,902 last year, keeping Euskadi in the leading positions, by contrast, of the whole state. So... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... it increases again to 1,984 euros compared to 1,902 last year, which keeps Euskadi in the leading positions, by contrast, of the whole state. I therefore reiterate and show you with figures this Government's commitment to social policies and I stress our commitment to public investment focused on relaunching the economy and generating in the year 22 10,800 additional jobs. Employment, no doubt, is another unbeatable social policy that I understand you will share with me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u103	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question, about the standards of the organizational communication of the Board of Education, of distribution of contracts for advertising, public relations." Mr. Gil is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u104	Thank you, Madam President, Mr. Counsellor, good morning. We will devote even a few minutes to discussing the issue of your department's advertising and institutional communication costs. According to the report of Publicity and Institutional Communication of the Basque Government, its councillor spent in the year 2020, the year of the pandemic, as everyone remembers, the modest figure of two hundred thirty-one thousand six hundred and peak euros, I will not enter in decimals. Clearly, in this memory, important games are missing to include, I think it's obvious that this figure is ridiculous, it's very small. However, in the Institutional Communication and Advertising Plan submitted by his Government, his department planned an expenditure of 858,000 euros. And when we compare this plan with the budget they presented for 2021, we find some disturbing details, we will describe them this way: first, the promotion campaign of the Basque Public School, which was budgeted at 380,000 euros, appears in that plan with an amount of 308,000. We're missing 72,000 euros. Two, the total amount of Institutional Communication, Advertising and Public Relations items (?) 2021 budget, I repeat budget, totals 2,261,000 euros, while the same amount of the items for the same concept, but now in the Communication Plan of the same year there are 850,000 euros; that is, there is a total of 1,411,788 euros that for some reason do not appear in the plan. Three, the budget that you have presented for the year 2022 of this same concept adds a total of 5,015,000 euros, an increase of more than double (?) Last year, which was 2,753,000. Analyzing the items, we found that there is a section dedicated to the vocational training room in secondary education centers, which has gone from a budget of 374,000 in 2020 to a budget of 3,076,000 for the year 2022. It is not the time now or the place to ask you about all these unwarranted misadjustments, contradictions and increases in the amounts devoted to this concept of institutional communication, publicity and public relations in your department, which worry us even more when your response to some of these misadjustments in the Committee on Budgets has been the repeated silence. Of course, we will put the relevant questions to your department in writing, but we must bear in mind that they are items intended for the media, not just for (?)), but primarily to the media, whose behaviour can be influenced by the volume of recruitments you perform. That is why we are obliged to ask you, Mr. Counsellor, what is the criterion used by your advisor for the distribution of contracts for institutional communication, advertising and public relations between the different media.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u105	Thank you, Mr. Gil. The word is yours, Monsieur Bilartz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u106	Yes, Mr. President of the legislature, chief of departments and members of the legislature, good morning. Gil jauna, eskerrik asko zure galderengatik. The criterion used is that established by the guidelines of the Interdepartmental Commission on Advertising of the Basque Government, and in any case, always in accordance with the Law 6/2010 on Advertising and Institutional Communication of Basque. With regard to the amount planned for next year, since I did not have the opportunity to clarify it at last week's appearance, I do so now by saying that the figures envisaged for communication in the next year's draft budgets are not those mentioned by you, and the discrepancy is due to a different allocation of the ordinary operating expenses of different stages of education and programmes to the heading and institutional communication, advertising and public relations, according to the new European system of accounts. Details of the submitted budgets can be found on pages 95, 103, 104, 110, 112, 118 and 127 of the volume for the Department of Education. In fact, the correct expenditure to be charged to the item to which you refer is EUR 872,000, which represents an increase of 2.2% over the previous year, that is, a much lower increase, less than half the increase corresponding to the Department of Education as a whole.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u107	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mr. Gil is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u108	Thank you, yes, it does draw my attention to the fact that in your department you have this habit of charging communication and institutional relations costs as operating expenses, it is really curious. But look, counselor, this is a very delicate issue. We take good account of your response, even though I would have liked to hear clearer criteria, more objective criteria, because, of course, the law sets criteria, but not concrete ones, at the time of application there is much room for manoeuvre, and I have no doubt that by exercising the control functions of the government that we have, we will follow closely every euro your department hires with the media. Because for a democracy to function properly, it is essential to have media that are truly independent of political power and that requires public and transparent objective criteria for the sharing of contracts and subsidies. And in view of the data, of some of the data I've given you, I don't think that's the case. That is why we will follow this issue in more detail, Mr. Counsellor, because in addition to being honest, we must look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u109	Thank you, Mr. Gil, Mr. Goldartz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u110	Mr Gil, the dissemination activities of the department are articulated through the contract for the planning and purchase of advertising spaces in press, radio, television, external advertising and online. This contract is public and is published. It was awarded on 17 February this year. Its characteristics are clearly and transparently defined in the contracting profile. On the one hand, it envisages institutional announcements for all administrative processes, to inform all citizens of them; for example, calls for public offers of employment, opening of professional replacement lists, time limits for enrollment in language schools, etc. On the other hand, it contemplates the actions of dissemination of the campaign of enrollment of the Basque Public School... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... of professionals, time limits for enrollment in language schools, etc. On the other hand, it envisages the dissemination of the enrolment campaign of the Basque Public School, which is also addressed to society as a whole, as well as other actions that the Department may consider interesting, for example, the last campaign carried out to thank the educational community. In accordance with the regulations on contracts, not only the general principles which regulate the opposition of publicity, but these principal principles have been taken into consideration. One, the end of communication itself, the kind of message it wants to convey, the public purpose of the message, and the information it gives to the people. Two media which offer access to media and level audiences, the capacity to extend the scope and extend the country and the profile of the usual public purpose of.... Three, economic criteria related to the budget model, the tarifi and post-opening conditions which media offer. Four, the power of the official languages of our community, of social selection, of content, of the means of communication, of admiration, specialization, and new media. Finally, please indicate that there is also a plan to strengthen the dissemination of the service offered by the Haurreskolak Consortium. This reinforcement will entail an increase of 15,000 euros to strengthen the registration campaign and to promote the service offered by the Haurreskolak Consortium to Basque society. This financial envelope responds to the request made by the non-legislative proposal adopted by this Parliament. I, Mr. Gil, understand many times that there is a lot of documentation, they have a lot of subjects and sometimes it's not easy. And in this way I also understand that I am going to provide you with documentation that is being worked out and that I think it can also help you to reach the same conclusion that we have reached, and that the increase we have had in relation to last year is 2.2%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u111	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The 15th point in the theme list: "The question is, that Muriel Larre Lasoa, a member of the popular-Ciudads, was made to the head physician of the Medical Department, the reform of the surgical block in the Bidasoa Hospital." Mrs. Laso, Mrs. Larrea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u112	Good morning. Thank you, President. Councillors, Members of Parliament. Look, Mrs. Sagardui, 32 years ago, the neighbors of the Bidasoa we saw improved the fall of our lives with the inauguration of the Comarcal Hospital of the Bidasoa. It was a hospital that sold us even with delivery rooms, and this is a dream that has not been fulfilled. 100,000 inhabitants remain after 32 years without emergency surgery for 18 months, surgery that has saved countless lives sometimes our grandparents, uncles, even ourselves. What measures will your department take to meet the needs of the citizens of Bidasotarra in terms of emergency interventions, as long as the works of the operating room of the Hospital Comarcal del Bidasoa last?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u114	Mr. President of the Parliament, members of the legislature, good morning. I believe, Mrs Muriel, that the first thing you should ask us is perhaps why we are going to do these works, what is the imperative need to do them, and then how we are going to do them, and how it is going to affect the citizenry currently served at the Bidasoa Hospital. We will carry out these works, because they are necessary if we want to continue offering this quality assistance to the citizens of the region of Bidasoa, because they also involve preparing the facilities of the Hospital of Bidasoa to the future needs of the population of Bidasoa. And doing a work of this magnitude, keeping the rest of the hospital open, requires very complex planning, bearing in mind that it is not a matter of discomfort those difficulties that occur in combining the works, but of being able to do so by guaranteeing the security conditions required in our facilities for the rest of the procedures. We always value it that way, and in this case it is not possible. The preliminary studies that we have carried out conclude that it is possible to provide in the Onkologikoa facilities practically the whole of the surgical activity planned in the region of Bidasoa during the period that lasts the work, and undoubtedly counting also with the collaboration of the Hospital Donostia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u116	Thank you, Counselor, for your answer. But his department's big problem is that he hasn't informed the population of the alternatives. It lacks that transparency, that citizens need that certainty to know how our lives will have changed. Are interventions expected to be transferred to Oncology and income? We don't know what your department's real solutions are. A few weeks ago, OIASO, the association of neighbors' associations in Irun, asked for information. It assures us that it will not worsen the quality of service for the neighbors of Bidasoa. And, really, we're worried about emergencies. And for programmed interventions, do you know the difficulties that the population will face to go to Oncology from Irún or Hondarribia? That there is no direct public transport connection to the Oncology. The rest of the network's operating rooms have been renovated and has not been left without an operating room; and less, without an emergency room. And we do not criticize the reform, which we know and share with you that it is necessary for a future for the District Hospital of Bidasoa. But what we criticize is how to manage that reform and how you have informed the people of how it was going to be carried out and the needs that existed. The population is uninformed and needs to know what is going to happen, to be certain and to know what they will continue to be cared for without difficulty.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u118	Thank you. I am glad, Mrs Muriel, that at least we are clear that it is necessary to undertake those reforms in the O.R. in the surgical block of Bidasoa. But you also know that not all facilities are the same, but they are facilities that require very special conditions and that, therefore, the works carried out in those environments are complicated. Therefore, the assessment has also been technical, of those who know what the needs are and what the conditions guarantee the safety of the procedures. The option of performing the work in phases was unfeasible because there was no way to fit an adequate surgical block circuit, and because the safety of the rest of the activity was compromised. The drawback is that you have to move to other facilities, but the citizenship of the region... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ...and because the security of the rest of the activity was compromised. The downside is that you have to move to other facilities. But the citizenship of the Bidasoa region will have guaranteed all health care. We understand that close attention is more comfortable. Even if the measure is temporary, I insist on it. And it's no different from the one that happens in other places where it doesn't... no hospital is available in the municipality. We have a network of transport, of health transport also to facilitate all those transfers that require specialized transport. Look, moreover, I have spoken of another shade, which I do not know if we have managed to see, which is that of the provision of service in Onkologikoa, of space. Because the team of professionals who are going to serve the citizens of Bidasoa is going to be the same, theirs, that of the Hospital of Bidasoa. In this regard, he also highlighted the work that has been done by the Bidasoa management team for more than two years to get to know the project and to see why this decision has been reached. And with all that it is time, it is the time when we will address the citizenry, we will be able to explain how the reorganization of the services finally remains during the duration of that work. Don't worry, that moment has to come. And of course we consider the discomfort we are going to cause. But above all, we are concerned about ensuring the best health care of this population group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interression, written by Carmelo Barro Barroja Pascal, a member of the Ciudadans to the chief of equality, Justice, and Society Polic, about the moneys that benefit the cascist dictatorship of Cuba." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, counselors. Ladies and gentlemen. Good morning. Good. It is a point-by-point issue that concerns us at this time with this interpellation that affects development cooperation policies. In addition, we are in a time of analysis on development cooperation. We have seen in government documents certain reports, the imminent one, the future norm, the new Law on Development Cooperation. That is, we are within the framework of these issues and of the analysis and reflection on the coherence of development policies in all directions. Something as important as that. That is why, from our point of view, it is not understandable at this time that with public money it is supported by dictatorships or by means that promote them through certain organizations or associations. We are also in times of analysis of the historical and democratic memory, in times of the highest demand for commitment to human rights, to freedom, to democracy. And we see that we continue to assist, through funding to NGOs, dictatorships such as that of Cuba by certain administrations and cooperative funds that are managed. That seems to us to be essentially serious. We made a request for parliamentary information on grants to the Euskadi-Cuba association. And we were informed that more than EUR 3 million in recent years have been allocated to this association, and in particular more than EUR half a million, through this association, Euskadi-Cuba, to what is a propagandist medium, a means of supporting the Castro dictatorship and a means of disqualification of European institutions, of Spanish democratic institutions through that medium of communication. He's out in the media. The Cuba Information project has been financed through the projects of the NGO Euskadi-Cuba with public money. And, in this regard, we have seen with concern that this means of communication has been devoted in some respects to disqualifying the European Parliament, the Members of the European Parliament, certain political parties, the European Union, has also splashed even to the maximum responsible for European foreign policy, Mr Borrell, let us not say anything about the qualifications that this means of communication has had, I repeat, subsidized and supported by an association, an NGO that receives money from the Basque Cooperation Agency, has used this means of communication, has used its means to disqualify the head of the Spanish State, to disqualify the armed forces, well, that is, and our democracy in the end, in relation to what that approach is. It's clear that those subsidies are there, they're there. And I think we need to be demanding about... Now that we are, as I said before, in this discussion of development policy coherence, which, logically, we are seeing in an essential way, in a very important way in terms of sustainable development, the objectives of the millennium, the Sustainable Development Goals, but also policy coherence for democratic development, and also policy coherence for the development of human rights. That seems to us fundamental. It makes no sense to support a dictatorship through subsidies to a non-governmental organization. The effect is the opposite of that pursued in relation to development. It's the opposite. They are steps back in coexistence, they are steps back in democratic development. And, moreover, through this money to NGOs that are installed in the discredit to institutional figures, to Spain, to European institutions, to people, to members of representative institutions, political organizations, more than NGOs, politics, more than development, of development cooperation, many of them. We're worried. And a lot of people are also concerned, because we have seen reactions at this time, because there are even legal reactions in relation to the non-governmental organization to which I referred before, belligerent attitudes of some authorized voices... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... moment, because there are also legal reactions in relation to the non-governmental organization to which I referred before, belligerent attitudes of some authorized voices, even of their own party. They have spoken of the incomprehensibleness of these subsidies. And indeed we would like to know, because I believe that at this time of the reflection to which I referred earlier, this reflection in relation to focusing on a new way of cooperating with development, to do so in that coherence in relation to the issues, and to make new laws that are better and that certainly pursue not politics, not propaganda, not discredit, but quite the contrary, the programmes of support for the most disadvantaged people and countries, what we think is what criteria politically inspire the Basque Government to grant grants through the Basque Cooperation Agency to cooperation projects that skip the dictatorial regime that governs Cuba. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u121	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mrs. Artola generous, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u122	The head of the table, members of the legislature, good noon to all. With public money, Mr. Barrio, you have not been financed by any means to exalt any dictatorship. And, if I may, in these ten minutes that I have to explain to you how the Agency works, what we do, with what criteria we grant these scores and grant these grants to work in the field of human rights and cooperation, I would like to be clear that there is no doubt about that series of issues that you have raised here today at this parliamentary seat. I must acknowledge that you have always maintained a constructive attitude in matters relating to cooperation or institutional delegations in different countries, and I am aware of your responsible and collaborative attitude in this and other areas. It also does so on the Gogora Board of Directors. And, allow me, Mr. Barrio, to thank you for that attitude. But the Basque Agency for Development Cooperation eLankidetza is the public body responsible for planning, coordinating, implementing and evaluating the Basque Government's development cooperation policy. Development cooperation, not for anything else. That is the instrument we have to channel international solidarity, a cooperation that serves the promotion of sustainable human development and the fight against poverty and inequality. But even the critical and active citizen makes them stake for the public good and for the solidarity of the people. In short, solidarity and social transformation. All that for a better world. In this transformation it is necessary to participate and accompany diverse actors from the south, the north, giving special relevance to gender equity, ecological sustainability, the rights approach, capacity-building, participation, organization and the global local bond. Multiple and diverse agents whose ideological substrate does not include the agency's technical assessments of their projects. Solidarity among peoples, apart from the sign of their governments; it helps disadvantaged groups, apart from the greater or lesser political sympathies with their regimes. In the specific case you bring us here today, the aid that the Agency has granted to the Euskadi-Cuba Association dates back to 2011, and all this aid has been granted through competitive competition procedures. Procedures that are convened annually in accordance with the budget allocated by the Law on General Budgets of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi. In particular, the grants granted to the Euskadi-Cuba Association have been approved in the framework of the calls for aid for development cooperation projects managed annually by the Agency. Many organisations are involved in this call, and the aid is granted to those entities that get the highest score in the scale of the projects submitted. This is in line with the provisions of the Aid Regulatory Decree and the corresponding annual call. Thus, between 2011 and 2020, the Euskadi-Cuba Association has been awarded ten grants on the basis of ten projects, for a total amount of €3,338,271. The protection which is given to these projects has not hitherto produced a special debate, either in the society of euscal, or in the functions of the administration. Traditional support for these projects has not so far generated any special controversy in Basque society or in the management bodies of eLankidetza. And let me detail the ten projects, so that you will see that there is no strange question of what you have thrown at this parliamentary seat today. In 2020, we funded a project called: "Sustainable agroforestry development, an option for women's empowerment in Guantanamo". Increasing the capacity of women in four agro-ecological cooperatives, fruit cooperatives, strengthening the production chain, with the creation of two box factories, five sales outlets and a mini-industry. Grant: EUR 600,000. In the year 19, another project: "Women's empowerment in the fruit program to tackle climate change in fragile ecosystems of Baracoa". The empowerment of women from cooperatives to lead the production, marketing of fruit through management, care of ecosystems using agroecological alternatives, using ecological fertilizers, biofertilizers, etc. Subsidy: 590.325. In 2018, another subsidized project: "Sustainable, participatory urbanism, with women's empowerment as a viable alternative to the effects of climate change". To lay the foundations for resilient urban planning, generated by citizen participation. 586,189. 2017, "Cuba information: communication, transformation, equitable and sustainable action". For the approach to Basque citizenship of solidarity experiences developed in and among peoples, rescuing the support of Basque cooperation, developing and disseminating communicative materials in four media, and increasing the production of original materials in Basque. And the grant was 238,317. Another project in 2017, "Support for food production and reforestation in the municipality of Manuel... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... 38.317. Another project in 2017, "Support for food production and reforestation in the municipality Manuel Tames Guantánamo", to strengthen capacities in the sustainable management of forest areas and others. Subsidy: 499,563. 2015, project "Cuba Information: socialization of information for action and social transformation with a gender perspective" for the approach to Basque citizenship of the experiences developed in and among peoples in equity, social justice, sustainable development and solidarity, 227.283. In the year 15, "Participatory Gender Diagnosis and Strategic Proequity Action Plan" for the realization of a gender diagnosis and the consequent elaboration of a plan, 26,400 euros. In 2014, "Support for food production and reforestation in the municipality Manuel Tames de Guantánamo" to strengthen capacities in people and institutions linked to the sustainable management of forest areas, 243,637. Year 2013, project "Cuba Information: communication with a gender perspective for solidarity and development", for the approach to Basque citizenship of the experiences of equity, social justice, sustainable development, solidarity, 104,270. And the last project, "Sustainable rural development for food sovereignty in Jiguaní Granma", for the increase of milk and meat production, rehabilitation of irrigation channels and technical training, 222,290 euros. The power of building a woman in the country, the improvement of agriculture and cattle to produce, in short, the establishment of the society in which they see the genus. All this is very far from the praise of the dictatorship you speak of in the regime. There's not even a help from Eukong that fundes government, either directly or indirectly. No one of these scholarships is used to destroy Europe, the State of Spain, and its institutions; contrary to all that. Not one of his revenues to Europe, to the Spanish State, and to his institutions (as a seminary? Directing.) It's totally the opposite. As Mr Barrio said, women's empowerment in rural areas, improvements in livestock production, reforestation, in short, projects of social transformation with a gender perspective. All this far removed from the exaltation of the dictatorial regime that you mention. None of the Basque Government's aid goes directly or indirectly to governments, none of its subsidies go to (?) to undermine Europe or the Spanish State or its institutions, on the contrary. And in this case it is in all cases projects of development cooperation, of defence of human rights, of diversity, of gender equality. And as you well know, Basque cooperation has always been characterized by a clear approach to human rights, as I said. Euskadi is one of the clear references of so-called decentralized cooperation at the international level, both for the volume of funds and for the policies and initiatives deployed. And it enjoys great recognition and prestige and, to a large extent, this clear commitment to human rights. And I must acknowledge you, Mr Barrio, and thank you for always betting on this determined support for human rights in different parts. But there is no propaganda or discredit, it is simply a defence of human rights.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u123	Thank you, Mrs Artola generous. Mr. Barrio is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u124	Thank you, Mr President, for your reply, thank you for the information. That is why you said it was hard for me to do this, because I believe in development cooperation, I believe in development cooperation, I believe in the defence of human rights, in freedoms, in the well-being of people and people, but I do not believe that it is development cooperation to subsidise, through programmes of non-governmental organizations, to the media that skip regimes that also despise others. You answered me directly in response to the request for information that in 2017 Cuba Information, in 2015 Cuba Information, in 2013 Cuba Information. And we actually already know what Cuba Information does, and that's what I told you in the first part, I don't want to extend, because I believe and I advise you that... I would ask you to investigate, to do it, (?) in good faith the titles of some cooperation programmes, because they can endure everything, any title, you have read a number of programme titles and well, and they can have a positive meaning, but they also hide something that you have not been able to perceive in relation to those so-called cooperation programmes. I would like an evaluation of these programmes exactly after knowing that they have been financed by money from the public purses, by money from the funds of the Basque Cooperation Agency, this government, that is, activities that have had that propagandistic quality and of contempt to other institutions, as I have told you before. Moreover, there is nothing more to see at this time because the belligerence of NGO leaders in some cases, that is, that they have been entangled in political speeches, in disputes, in public debates regarding the defense of the regime. That is to say, I believe that there are qualitative issues that need to be analysed, that need to be analysed, I say again, within the scope of policy coherence to development, also linked to democratic demand, also linked to respect for human rights. We will already discuss some non-legislative proposal on this more general issue in Cuba, but this is a point-by-point issue, it affects a non-governmental organization and it affects... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ...we will discuss some non-legislative proposal in relation to this more general issue in Cuba. But this is a point. This affects a non-governmental organization, and it affects activities that identify the problem that I have told you. And, I say again; I ask you to make an in-depth analysis of these issues that have also emerged in the media. They have been publicly denounced by people who have been affected by this form of action, financed by public media, and who have criticized it. I mean, I've heard and seen that a person so important within his party, like Iñaki Anasagasti, was reflecting on this situation. That is, and he said, apart from the fact that the NGO meets the legal requirements, incomprehensible, and a capital error that is supported by a dictatorship with public money. It's unusual. If a democratic country had done the same in Franco's time, we would have considered it unacceptable. It would have been unacceptable. It is still unacceptable that, through this money and through so-called programmes, there is funding for media that disqualify European or Spanish institutions, parliamentarians or that exalt the values of the Castro regime, which are the opposite of democracy. That's the question I demand of you. I, of course, thank you for the information on cooperation policy. I share with Mr Ortega reflections on cooperation. And we are very close to what the approach to cooperation policies has to be. Surely, in the future, let us agree on the lines of action in what may be the future law, the future plans for cooperation. But there are issues that sometimes escape some sort of control. And we have to be very demanding on many issues that have to do with transparency, policy coherence and, of course, the usefulness of those funds actually reaching out to people in need and not getting lost in marketing operations, procastry propaganda operations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u125	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u126	Thank you, ma'am. I respect all the opinions of all people. But, as you will have seen, the information that I have transferred to you in my small intervention, six of those 10 projects were initiatives for development cooperation on the ground, in the country, responding to the needs and challenges of the local population, in rural development, in food, in climate change, in the empowerment of women, one of them to promote change (...) gender proequity. And three of them were projects for the socialization of information for the approach to Basque citizenship of experiences of solidarity developed in these peoples. Projects between 2013, 2015 and 2017, i.e., more than four years ago. That I don't understand now what the controversy they want to provoke. These are calls for assistance. It's barication that's done from a technical point of view. It is an award based on the highest score. And it's a resolution. And then, later, an analysis is made of whether or not the projects that have been submitted are carried out, so that they can then finance the entire project. You know that first you give an amount and then you give another amount. So, I, really, the only thing I can tell you is that you will always find this government, this department and this councilwoman in the radical defense of all human rights, freedom and democracy. And that we have not financed, we cannot do, any Government, nor have we exalted any dictatorship. There'd be more to it. I mean, it's just, I think, unheard of. We must update that law that you say of cooperation and that, moreover, we are already working, and you know how we are doing it, in a participatory way. I believe that, at the international level, the doctrine itself says that we need to move forward in this policy coherence for development. There have been significant changes in the international scene. And the problems of development processes pose new challenges. And I think it is necessary to modify those laws that we have, those programs and those processes to comply with everything we have been doing for decades. Commitment to the fight against poverty, social justice or sustainability requires a perspective that goes far beyond the activity we have been developing. And, at present, what is needed is reciprocal and sustained action over time, as well as collaborative, accompanying processes, which require funding, but also exchange of experiences and mutual learning. Policy coherence for development presents a new horizon of work that links cooperation policy with other policies, both at the international level and on a number of other issues, taking into account various actors, various sectors. And this puts on the table new challenges for that cooperation that must find its own gap, its role, its specific contribution to the progress of the agenda. You can be sure that our Basque cooperation, among other objectives, will continue to work for human rights, and promote free and democratic societies, Mr Barrio. I am convinced that we agree on these objectives, and we can continue to meet as we have done so far. And I am sure that, from that consensus and respect for plurality, you and I will continue to support common causes, such as peoples, Saharan, Venezuelan, Colombian, Palestinian, Nicaraguan or Cuban, beyond the characteristics of their governments. That it has nothing to do with the people with the government. And as I have told you, the aid we grant does not finance governments. They do not exalt any dictatorial regime, and no subsidies are intended to undermine any Government. They are subsidies designed to transform and improve subsidies.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The 18th point in the subject list: "Interregation, The Forest, the House Farmer and Lingond, the legislatures of the EH Collectors, to the Chief of Equality, Justice, and Society, concerning a quantum evaluation of violence." Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u128	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. You talked about a law. Now we bring another process on the table... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... good noon to all. You talked about a law. We now bring another process on the table, in this 2021, because we meet with a thorough and elaborate reform of law, and because we stand on the table: We're talking about the equality law. And in this case, we would like to discuss this view of the part around the machista, which this law of equality ought to lead to, and to discuss the present situation with you in the following few minutes, Chief Artolalor. It is plain that we have a process in progress, and that we must devote its course and its time to it. But we clearly see that we are derived from certain works. If we cannot foresee how far we may lead the definition of the law, we know that this government will have great challenges on the table, to put all that into action later on. And in the meantime, we wanted to talk to you about the machista resources of violence, because that is a thing that has often been brought out of this law. This government performs several evaluations of the resources through the results of the results. There is, for instance, a research on the emergency management resources in 2009, which in 2010 has been evaluated to the extent of the adoption of social services in order to face the machista of violence, and later on some others have come. At the Covid time, too, there came out a pamphlet, in which the entrances of various means to prevent the machista of violence were to be opened, in order to obtain information, the telephone STEVI was spoken, or a list of means and services made, so that the information might be available. And there's a yearly study from Eukko MU, from the Old Foru and from the councils, to see what answers they're giving victims. And that's where we have the tenentities and the lights, right? We've shared them more than once. Cases rise, and, for instance, the latest report of the demand for psychologist resources showed itself. And speaking of all these means, well, it's important for us to see what kind of investigations are being made about the users on these resources. And in this case, I want to submit to the Macroencusta of Spain, because I think a data that appears in it is remarkable: in the case of women purchased in marriage or in common, in the case of straight couples, the greatest difficulty is given at the time of the prosecution. It shows us, in our opinion, that the absence of a dwelling in fear of such a means is a difficulty in not knowing what to do with the children at the time of the prosecution. So how important is the information being brought to the desktop, and the public, in this case, the women who suffer violence to be known what they can grasp. But from another point of view, where they will go, and what resource, what kind of attention they will have, what is important, isn't it? And data is enough to scare. We've talked for the past few weeks, it's the gift data, 1 from 3 young men, 1 from 3 to 1, 1 from 14 to 17 years of marauding violence. We've just had the answer to some women in the streets of Bilbo, a case of machista violence, but on the other hand, there's an answer from women who met him in front of a case, but on the other hand, on the other hand, there's no rape on the street the next day. We're in that strain right now. And, considering the latest facts, in Euskal Autonomia Erria, until September, this year, this government has been charged with a number of facts. We know, therefore, that when the visible rises, accusations increase, that this sense of information and protection helps to advance these charges, and that when the means are strengthened, the woman rises also the freedom of the women who have accused her. And therefore we think we have at this particular moment, and that we have a great challenge in our hands, when we open our reading about the machista of violence, and therefore upon the means of answering and setting up the reading of the victims, we have to analyse them; how they are working. And above all, in our opinion, what analysis does the women themselves make of this? They are enough, no; the help they have felt when they reach them. Workers' view, right? Here, those who work in everyday life see themselves. It's a coincidence, isn't it? In proportion as the charges are being raised, the workers live in this way. And then, in front of all these future challenges, right? We believe that we must know where we are, what we relate, and, in order to face what comes, what we ought to improve, and to place in what direction concrete politics. So, in this sense, we'd like to ask you what you're up to today, as you're predicting the network, the efficiency of these resources in the Euskal Autonomy Er member, and especially the reorganization of the machista violence we're facing... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... in order to improve this, and especially in front of this re-organisation or re-reading of the machista violence which we have before us, a few steps which have already begun to progress, because we must not say... and this does not mean that they have not been waiting for the law from social services and professionals, have they not? That's what we have to deal with. And we'd like to take all their work together. But how shall we do it, what is the design of this government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u130	I'm out of my mind. Working to eradicate violence against women is an absolute priority of the Government. And I think that's where we have a full coincidence, Mrs Etxebarrieta. I believe that, in addition, the vast majority of this House recognizes violence against women, recognizes macho violence. And for that reason, I hope and hope that in this work that we are doing in an intense way with a view to adopting that law we will be able to reach a broad consensus in order to make progress in this area. We know that we are facing a problem that is complex and requires a comprehensive and coordinated response. Euskadin, while women are still dying, nothing is enough. But our efforts are constant in time: In the origin of violence, we try to act, we try to act in the difference. And if I may express myself, as long as there is still... a woman in Euskadi is still murdered, nothing is enough. But I assure you that our effort is permanent in time. And we try to act on the origin of violence and we try to act on the inequality of women and men. And we work on different levels: one, from prevention, with the long-term perspective, in that future society without violence that we want to build, and, on the other hand, in the shortest, the most urgent, through the attention of the protection of women who are suffering the consequences of violence right now. And we do so with the focus on objectives that are already reflected in the VII Equality Plan, which is our road map. In order to respond to a violation of these rights, to a structural and multidimensional problem such as that of violence against women, we are working in coordination, as you well know, with parliaments, municipalities, the judiciary, the Public Prosecutor's Office and other actors involved within the framework of that Commission of the Second Agreement for the Improvement of the Care of Victims of Women. And, therefore, we do so with that broad view of the country. Without stopping to offer many details, I will try to list some resources that the Government already has in place and that we believe it is necessary to maintain, enhance, even implement new ones. In addition to coordinating within the framework of the Commission of the II Agreement of foral services, municipal, from the Basque Government we have our efforts put in resources that we offer from the various departments, because equality policy is not only a policy that corresponds to the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy, which falls to us its leadership, but that there are numerous tools to care for these women and their children. The Specialized Service for the Telephone Care of Women Victims of Violence, 900,840 111; the management of the single-paying financial aid for women, the Advisory and Training Service for Professionals who Care for Women Victims, the VAS, with 30 years of experience already in the judicial framework, the Zurekin Accompanying Programme, the Centre for the Coordination of Violence against Women, free legal assistance, Osakidetza updating of this procedure for dealing with situations of gender violence and sexual assaults, the Ertzaintza Gender Monitoring Section, the progressive implementation of the EBA Project, a digital system for shared management of all cases for crimes of gender violence and local police, (working?) a plan of action for the implementation of a revised protocol for comprehensive and coordinated care from Ertzaintza, police group specializing in trafficking in women and girls, renewal of audiovisual material shown in the Ertzainetxeas to victims with a cross-sectional view, exemption from payment in university education for women and their children victims, educational scholarships for these persons, transfer of academic files, implementation of the II Plan of Co-education in the Basque educational system, positive action measures for women in gender-based violence in income-guarantee income-guarantee, Labor Mediation Service in Lanbide with at least one guardian person for women victims in each of its 42 offices, with advice for the implementation of its socio-laboral integration plan, additional baremation in public housing promotions under rental and direct allocation of rented housing in serious and exceptional cases, among others. And he asks us what we are doing to improve this vast network of resources. Well, we can say that we are making progress on three fundamental aspects that derive directly from the improvement in the care of women victims, which translate into facilitating the way for them and accompanying them in hard times. We need to adapt to the new realities, and that is why we are doing this reflection. And the three aspects on which we believe we have to focus and which we are working to expand the network of resources are: strengthening coordination, as it cannot be otherwise; boosting the training of professionals who care for women victims, a fundamental part of providing a quality service, and promoting research, which is where... your concern for the analysis that we have to do to see what the reality is would fit perfectly. I believe that these are three fundamental aspects, to which we must add other sets of messages or approaches that have to do with cross-sectorality when it comes to caring for victims or the impulse of empowerment as a fundamental axis of attention. We've taken a lot of steps. Still, we have more challenges. It's a constant improvement that urges us. It's a crucial moment to strengthen equality and remove violence from the roots of women. I hope you will accept as soon as possible the change of the law of equality. And, as I was telling you, despite the many data given, the many steps taken, we still have huge challenges ahead. The continuous improvement moves us. We are at a key time at work to strengthen equality policies and eradicate violence against women. And how... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ...challenges ahead. The continuous improvement moves us. We are at a key time at work to strengthen equality policies and eradicate violence against women. And, as I said at the beginning, we have the opportunity to pass this law with a broad consensus that will allow us to move forward. As you know, the passage of this law will bring with it a number of improvements. It has to do with strengthening economic, human and technical resources for the development of equality and prevention policies. It also has to do with strengthening the gender and human rights approach to equality in all areas of intervention in the face of gender-based violence against women. The promotion of these measures is intended to facilitate the widespread implementation or implementation throughout the Basque public institutional sector of key elements for advancing equality policies, such as plans, specialized services, training and measures to promote equality. Grants also, and public procurement, and the impetus for training on equal terms for the staff of the Administration, which, as I said, we believe is a fundamental part of continuing to build an Euskadi on equal terms. We have to work on co-education in the classrooms. These children and adolescents must be given greater protection from male-based violence. We have to go sowing from the tenderest ages on equal, because when they learn inequality, then they do inequality. A considerable expansion of the system of care for victims of all forms of violence against women. That is also included in this amendment of the law. A detection of early detection systems. We were talking this morning in Barnahus too, when we were talking about sexual abuse of children. I believe that early detection is also a fundamental tool in these areas, and a recognition of the right to reparation for victims. Integration of the cross-sectoral approach and increased research and improved recording and dissemination of data. Because it is essential to have and know what is going on in order to be able to get right in the policies we implement. And then, also a deepening of citizen awareness. We must continue to raise awareness, we must continue to move these messages: that it is impossible, in an advanced society such as ours, for situations of inequality or violence against women to occur because of the mere fact that we are women. We must therefore work in an important way to empower us, women, and strengthen, as I said, those coordination systems. We won't be happy while women are killed, but it's only fair to confess the effort they've done so far, and the opportunity to improve the new legal camps. In this context, we also face the challenge of signing the third agreement to improve care for women victims. And this agreement is going to be an important step forward in this continuous improvement. And I hope and wish that as soon as possible. Within this framework, and in a coordinated manner with the rest of the institutions, we will take steps in these new challenges, because we want this amendment to become the great country pact for equality and the eradication of violence against women. And as we always say, we're going to do it as a team, because there's no other way to do it, and all of us to one to keep moving. I think society deserves it, I think women who suffer this violence deserve it, and I think their sons and daughters deserve it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. Houseboy, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u132	Thank you, chief physician, for your answers. I'm staying with a sentence you just said because I make one completely: As long as they kill women, nothing will be enough. And I believe that we are all capable of such a deep engagement and uneasiness. And, as you may well explain, there is a complete application for prevention which we have tried to look at in specific terms at. You list many new services that are currently present, and may be managed by some. And when you come to that initial phrase of yours, they will not be enough to kill women, but in that sense let us become better, even more efficient. In order to improve, and in that sense, we talked about it, this investigation is important, and we know that there was not a whole furrow there. But we believe that we can learn a great deal from the study of the past few years, but that there are others, as long as we try this and that ease of course, the voice of those women who are being painted and making their way may, for example, be interesting to receive. We said, in this sense, that as far as the means increase, so far as these resources are rendered more useful, at least at least a woman may live with greater freedom in the Basque Country. And we have no doubt it's a crucial moment. In this sense, the reason for our interpenetration was that in front of that decisive moment a great many things are necessary. One is compromise, even in reflection shared, and in that compromised participation, the ability to hear, the decency to learn, and the desire to go on. Yesterday I was at a table. And a fellow used to say that a very nice thing is our goal often, that we have a clear idea where we're going, but that the way is important too. Even though we're doing that road is very important and we're not afraid to take a step... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. but that the way is important too. Even though we're doing that road is very important and we're not afraid to take a step. Maybe we'll make a mistake, but we'll get him to keep moving. And just as you said, all that we do will not be enough. However, we will put all our strength into it. And here we think it's important to know what land we're on and we're on, together with all these women, from where they think we're going, because it's a big challenge. And that's what you ended up with, and we join because we want a country with free citizens. We dream of a feminist Basque Country where no woman will suffer violence. It's a huge challenge we're facing. But I think we have a clear engagement. And in this sense, looking at the path by which we want to force each other, we must continue to advance. It's the way of making a mistake without fear, because it's the way, sometimes the mistake, but sometimes the progress, and the progress of it, in the direction of that feminist Basque People. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u134	Thank you, ma'am. I agree with you, Mrs Etxebarrieta, that it is so important what is how. That's why I'm a strong advocate. Sometimes it is better to do things in a shared way, with contributions. I believe that we have been doing so throughout the legislature, to be (...), to achieve a broad objective, with a broad consensus, than to do so in a tax-free way and without counting on anyone's opinion. I believe that that ability to listen and learn that you asked me to implement it on all the important and relevant issues that this country needs. And I think it will be in this particular matter even more necessary than ever, if it can be. We will not tire of repeating that it is necessary to promote such coordination between the institutions, in order to be able to carry out these policies of care for women victims, which I believe, moreover, we have a significant trajectory in Euskadi, with more than 20 years since the signing of an agreement to improve care for victims of gender-based violence. We are talking about that participatory character. I believe that the law has been an example of that participation. More than 400 contributions from both civil society and institutions. And I think we are talking about consensus, a social consensus for equality and against violence against women. And I think that consensus is getting bigger and bigger. That social cry demands that we be generous in reaching such agreements. He's asking for more stock. And he asks us to listen to each other and to listen to them carefully. And we are talking about that fluid communication that we maintain from the Government with the victims of violence, listening to their demands, understanding their actions. I have met personally with the victims, so that they can explain directly to me what their feelings are, what we are failing in, what they need. And I think that's what we have to follow. That is what we must continue to do for all the agents and all those responsible for this issue, each from its own sphere and from its own position, because we have to move forward as a team. We are talking about this work, which is being carried out by hundreds of social, economic and political actors, with a view to framing these future commitments to equality. We're talking about that collaborative work. I believe that in this collaborative work we have already carried out important issues, in this process of collective reflection for the improvement of the care system for women and girls who suffer violence in the Basque Country. And that's where that research, which I was commenting on in the first round of intervention, will bring in that analysis that you're worried about and that we're worried about too. Which is why it's one of the lines we're going to work on. In this process, police, justice, health and social services have worked together, because it is a problem that needs to be adopted in a cross-cutting way, with contributions from each group, in order to be able to improve. We are talking about a country pact, Mrs Etxebarrieta. And I think we have the same objective. We have to amend a law. We must do so as soon as possible so that those measures that are incorporated into that law will benefit women and their children who suffer from such violence as soon as possible. And I really hope that we get that consensus, because in his hand is the one we can... It is in the hands of this House that we can improve those resources, those programs that are included in that document, in that bill, and that the passage of that law will allow us to give those new tools to continue fighting and advancing on equal terms in Basque. Because, I said earlier, the right of victims, of women, of children is at stake, but there is also the right to Basque society, to be a truly equal society. And this I think you have to ask us all. The ability of this country to work as a team is at stake. And I think we have a chance to prove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-12.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at one and thirteen o'clock in the morning.
