ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u0	Good morning, everyone. Let's start the entire Union. I inform you that the nineteenth point on the subject has been left for another purpose. And the fourth point will be seen at the third point, and the third in the fourth. First point in theme list: "The question is that the members of the U.S.U.R.R.R.R.S. P.I. are members of the group of the legislatures, made of Cultural and the Chief of Language, the strategy of the Jewish Department of Language." Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Mr. Zupiria, on the 28th of October 2020, when you introduced Cultura, Language, and the sports Board the strategic furrows of the Department, you declared that to advance in the knowledge and use of the eucalyptus is the object of the country, and yet it is also recorded in the government. For this purpose, you're working on the strategic book of the eupaca, and the action of promoting it to the still strong remains of the 2012 will also have to be renewed in 2022 by accepting the new frame. This, as a people, as far as the language is concerned with politics and the normalization of the Basque, will determine the foundations of the average and long term. But it is clear that it is not only for joy to answer the hinges of the eucalyptus, that it requires an appeal to the whole society, of the institutions and representatives of the rest of our country, of the euphorion and the individual. It is of great importance to us to maintain and strengthen the knowledge and use of the community, the organization and society, which is being distributed in this establishment, and the work of each other will henceforth ensure the future of our language. We have the power of euphorium, and we must all continue to stake on it. It's important for all of them if we want to take steps towards complete normalization. Cultural and Language Politics have been invented by the Department for the last few years to cover up the offices of eroscalization and promote the work. 'Escation is an example of an example, which, by making an euphoration to increase the use of the euphora, is a design to change our language, and a more powerful edition by edition. Our language demands such an attitude, demands a positive and active discourse, and we must all put ourselves to it. Looking forward, we have important challenges as a people to make the eucalyptus be the language of our lives and of our lives. Therefore, Mr. Zupiria, the chief physician, we would like to know what predictions you make in politics, what are the strategic purposes of the bureau, and the main courses of work in this area for this period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u2	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. To answer, Mr. Zupiria, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u3	Congresswoman, President, members of the legislature, members of the government, all good days. Far away, Mr. Masters, it's established between the ten goals of this law to go on with the knowledge and use of the eucalyptus. The normalization of the cascade is, therefore, the goal where it's going to be the whole thing, based on the view of the town. We have reflected thus on the government program, and are working on specific means of conducting and conducting these targets, and will receive them at the base of the eucalyptic diary. I would like to mention five of the principal offices we have in our hands. In the first place, the council of government admitted that of the strategic plan to normalize the eucalypophiliac area in the 2019. From that time on, we've been treating and conducting its contents with members of the HABA, and, on the other hand, out of the field of organizations, with industry and professional services and adviceal languages, and also with agents connected with education. The projects of the territory are as follows: On the one hand, the Ess Gara in the Valley of Artia, which offers the services and aids of its Enprescises in the use of the eussion; and on the other hand the work which we shall present in April, which shall be performed in Duranga. In the gym, the Basque Tale of Gara, in order that they may have the opportunity to practise the eucalypancy by teaching students in the profession. And, Araban, the Labes Project. Finally, the language of consumers and users is making an effort to improve the level of execution of the decree associated with rights. We're working on a new future pact together with big leaps and financial entities. Second line, digital environment route page. In the Basque Council, the digital environment committee section has completed this page, and we will soon take it to the government committee. The Euscarese is the international area that must be won. The creation and content of the Basque content being available to the public... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... We'll take him to the government committee. The Euscarese is the international area that must be won. We must encourage the creation and content of the Basque content to be within reach of the public, and four lines have been defined: to create digital eucalyptic content, to encourage digital applications and resources, to give a stucco and eucalyptic resources, and to ensure the technology. Thirdly, The Administration of Euscalal Autonomy in the Erelicia, to fix the criteria for the use of languages. This document will have instructions to use both official languages. Language criteria will have three main goals. First of all, he guarantees the rights of all the citizens. With that, normalizing the use of the cradle as a service language and work language. And lastly, that the public sector is a model for the normalization of the cradle. Fourthly, to promote in sporting, to increase the use of the euphoria between eight and 18 years old, is to develop strategy, a plan of four years. We will accept it before summer, and it is its intention to move it in four quarters: Formation, use, innovation, and promotion. To conclude, the fifth course of action concerns the acquisition of the adults. In this period of time, to improve the finance of the adult euphoration system, is to ensure the conditions of the professors and the future of their activities. That's why you're trying to make a multiple-year-old scholarship call, to stabilize the future of the teacher. These are some of the projects and activities which we have been treating of Euskana and Language in the Policy Department in years, in order to get ahead of this legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u4	Thank you, Mr. Zupiria. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question of the members of the legislature of the Maddalen Irina Presidency to the president, about the tools to face the pandemia." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u5	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Urkullu, good morning. It's been a week since we had the chance to be together, and we were on our way back to a very interesting situation about COVID-19. Yesterday we learned that there have been more than 529 cases, 18 people have died in a week, and very important. But what happened in the last 48 hours, Mr. Urkullu, I don't know how to define it. What's happened in the last 48 hours I don't know how to qualify. Because the technical LABI says that no further action is needed, that there is no need to bring the political LABI together. 24 hours later, you call LABI Technician, and you tell us that you do not rule out taking more restrictive measures, and the possible measures that will or will not be taken, I do not know, are leaked to the press at today's meeting. Doesn't sound very serious, Mr. Urkullu. And if we need something right now, it is clear communication, clear, coherent and understandable measures. And people are confused. And people are angry. And people from different sectors are mad too. In a situation where Mr. Urkullu might have been expected. That's why I ask you, what are they, or are we enough tools to deal with this situation?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u7	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. Mrs. Irritor, the technical Committee of LABI, or LABI, conducts a thorough course every day. And therefore every day may be determined. Not only that, not those belonging to LABI, but also those in the state, whose decisions are to be made concerning the board of commonwealths, or which we might be able to establish here. And we've got to take care of all that. But, in answer to your question, society must be clear and clear, and here and again we have explained: Live New Plan. Live New Year's Plan III. And they're on the New Life III Plan, the measures made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u9	Well, look, Mr. Urkullu, I've got the New Year's Plan, the one I went over yesterday. And, as I told you in his time, I don't think he's making enough measures to deal with the situation. For if we need tools, we must know how to use different tools, if we get different results. Besides, we must add other measures to perpetual reductions, not always weights to the community. We talked about the vaccine yesterday, it's a vaccine. We must take steps in the definition of the case, for example, on the influence of having a mask on it, or not having it; I have often said this too. But when you said that they were strictly surgical measures, I think we ought to observe this too, and look into the public transports where they are well aired, at universitys, what influences, how we defile ourselves. As I always say, with the reductions, we'll have to take care of the damaged sectors. In answer to a question of the Basque People gathering, on December 31st, the government had enough money. So let's protect these sectors. And if you're a new toolsman, see if you agree with the parts of the government, and you and Mrs. Mountain. For you often say that we have not enough tools and plenty of resources to protect people, although they are always limited measures and no more rights, and Mrs. And in the meantime, we found out this week, there's my second transfer, a transmission... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... they have more rights to develop, and the Mountain is said to be. And in the meantime we learned that this week the street of my third transfers will be half-past, well, transmission, even when it is over, that it will not be the beginning of what they have broken. And this week we've learned that Autogobernu Poncia won't be running because the covida needs the default. Absolutely. "Pero no hay quien loca, porque si no tenemos la capidad sufilici para proteger a la gente, alabá que pensar." The rest of them are loafers and begging. Cogony Proclamation and False Promises. But, look, we agreed to an agreement for a new state, and you didn't like it very much. And now your party insists that it's someone else's fault, but that's no longer believed. And I believe that only from the recognition of the political subject, the free and democratically expressed will of the citizenry and the anchoring of historical rights can a negotiation be opened, by agreeing a fund of power, rights and obligations, and an effective shielding of our decisions, preserving not only the singularity, but the right to decide of this people. Everything else will be patches. They're patches, you see, without any guarantees to be able to protect people as we have to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Irriart, tell me what it is that we do not observe, or do not do what we do, from the scenes planned on the New World plan, and that the Council of LABI has not yet been assembled in the afternoon. Tell me. And tell me if society ought not to be clear (... ) When it is published, is it not necessary for society to be clear what is the course to follow. On the other hand, Mrs. Irriart, your question leads me to another question: Can there be a single ruler on the whole planet who can answer your question? Do we have enough tools? Can any one say that he has in his power all the implements to oppose this condition of pandemy in all the world? I'm sure all the authorities will say no. It's just that we use the tools as best we can. And we have effective tools to face the hard reality of the pandemia. One, we have a strong public health system that people appreciate. Two, we have a solution and a reconnaissance facility. We've resurrect and Euskadi We have budgets to support the sector, the company, the family, the weakest people. We have the Covid funds. We have a plan of three, new life to cooperate and contribute to the whole society. We have more resources and instruments than many countries, and, indeed, less than others, of course our size. And now it's time to answer the unusual situation with what we have and we're getting it. No doubt we can do better. But now that we're in the middle of the storm, it's a matter of not losing the north to get out of this situation as quickly as possible. It is the time of the neighbourhood, of society, and of generosity. The door is always open to continue working in front of the difficulty. You've been talking about other things. The Euscadi organization model shows us the way. Clearly, we want to have more tools and resources. After all, the soul of politics is to seek a constant improvement, but even the soul of politics is to read and understand the needs and demands of society. We must strengthen and heal what we have just now, as clearly as we are aware that our self-reference will always be the basis of the progress of future self-interest. It is true that the state of alarm conditions our capacity, and before that we are proposing a new rule that provides legal certainty and effectiveness to the decisions we take to stop and overcome the pandemic. This is our new instrument, to which I hope everyone and everyone can add, because a collaborative scenario is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "I'm asking you, if you agree to agree with M. Podemos, a member of the Antiz Party to the head of the Board of Education, to accept the bill which the Euneiz University acknowledges as a private University of the Eunezal Autonomy, a member of the Renaissance." Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u13	[[Microphone Off spoke]] ... what arguments the government has to push forward this university.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u14	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Sir Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u15	Mr. President, President, members of the legislature, chief officers, good morning. The Education Department has received a request to accept a university project called Euneiz. And according to regulations, the 108th article of the Basque University System's law in its first chapter says in words: "Any physical or juridic person will be able to encourage the confession of the Universities that are not public. For that purpose the only boundary or prohibition will be established in the fundamental law of the university." So we received a request to accept a private college called Euneiz, according to the regulations mentioned, and directed it according to the regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u16	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mr Martínnezion, your word is yours. [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u17	Eskerrik asko, Bildarratz jauna. Baina "Euskadi is different", so different that at this time the government comes up with the idea of putting the red carpet on a private university in the middle of the covid's pandemic and when social differences are greater than ever, when inequality gets worse and the system collapses, excellence for you is to privatize more. What we need right now is an education or a strong public health, systems plublicos de salud y edución potentes para una sociedmás justa, porque a qué necescadima a real responde a la creacion de la Euneiz, pregun seponsde sole: The interest and economic profit of a company. That's all there is behind Eune. Most academic content with the Eune are already in some EHU or other colleges. So it's simple: money, money, and money. It's a college designed for the caprice of a person. The need responds to the sole profit-making interest of a one-person, anonymous company, which is the promoter of this project. An entity behind it is Mr. Josean Kerejeta. The vast majority of the offer that this university is supposed to offer is already given in Euskadi, many of them in the city of Gasteiz itself. What the Basque Government brings us to Parliament is a project of recognition of a purported private university designed on whim, because if this fails, who will bear the consequences? The Law of the Basque University System recognizes three universities: one public and two private. Private yes, but not for profit, something quite different from this project. Universities like Deusto and Mondragon, private yes, but with root, with trajectory, with connection to the Basque socio-economic fabric. This is not the case with this project. Will the government then make changes to the Basque University System Act? This report, I have it here, has been drafted by Unibasq, the Quality Evaluation Agency of the Basque University System, I think it is quite reliable. "Stee informe es defavorable a la tramitacion de la memory del Proyecto de la universidad." Unibasq, for six dimensions of which he has to examine as a security for the university, does not conform to the capriceal moments. It does not have a minimum offer of qualifications or adequate research programming, it does not have sufficient teaching and research staff and its facilities, means and resources are not adequate. And one of the conclusions of this report is that this is not a university, but that as much as it will be a center, it can be a center attached to a university, and here it is written in this Unibasq report. There is another report, surely you (...) will say of Unibasq that it does not analyze the memory of this university, but it analyzes its bill, that good, because it complies with the legislation, but this memory does not comply with it. Mr Bildarratz, you are also aware that the (...) university is preparing a change in the legislation that is going to harden the conditions to recognize what is a university and what is not a university; therefore, if under the current conditions, which are quite lax, this center, according to Unibasq, not according to our parliamentary group, does not meet what are the requirements to be a university, let alone when it is approved in the coming months that university, that royal decree, forgiveness. So, Mr. Bilaritz, we're on time to listen to Uibasq, to listen to agents, to defend and improve EHU's offer, and not to reduce the Basque university's work. Sit down with the project promoter if you want to move on with your project, it will have to be at the hands of some university set up as a seconded center, because in these conditions I do not say it myself, continues to say Unibasq, this is not a university.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u18	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Mr. Bilar is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u19	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea. Mr Martínez, what is very important when it comes to parliamentaryism is rigour. In the dossier that you have received or the House has received, as you can see and thanks to the report that made Unibasq precisely, all the relevant corrective measures have now been taken and thanks to the Unibasq report, the mandatory report of the general university policy conference is affirmative. Unibasq's report to the bill is also affirmative, not only that, the legal umbrella governing the creation of private universities is set out in article 27 of the Constitution in its sixth paragraph, paragraph 6, which recognizes the freedom of natural and legal persons to establish educational institutions in accordance with constitutional principles. Thus also article 5 of the Organic Law on Universities, as well as article 108 of the Law (?) and thus also the Royal Decree on the creation, recognition, authorization and accreditation of universities and university centres in its third article. The Board of Education has made all the tramits required for the legal execution of the established legislation. And so we've made a law project and transmissible it. This bill of law has been transmitted to this legislature. And now this legislature belongs to this legislature to accept or reject this project of the law. I think it is a good thing that we are discussing this project rigorously and this idea, how to improve education and how to improve the Basque university. I think it is good that we are discussing the Basque university system and its future. A model that integrates the public university and the private university. A model that has been proven effective and has placed the Basque university among the best-rated institutions in our country, with a confidence level of 78 points out of 100, according to the Basque sociometer of 2019. I am sure that in this debate we will be able to share the same argument of a great authority in this matter, who affirmed, and I quote, Mr Martínez: "I am in favour of private universities if they are of quality", and this said it, that I share this same criterion... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] And I quote, Mr Martínez: "I am in favour of private universities if they are of quality". And this said, that I share this same criterion, the minister of universities Mr Castell, October 19, 2020, in El País. This is the same challenge and is the same argument of our Government, improving the quality of education, university and the Basque university system as a whole. I would also like to point out, although I am sure you will be aware of it, that in the draft submitted to this Government on the proposal for a Royal Decree, which replaces the current one, there is also a paragraph which makes it possible and gives more options to private universities for its creation. On the premise of quality assurance, which is a basic argument of our system, I am sure that we will be able to continue to improve together the Basque university model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u20	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Chairto Priente San Vicente, members of the Basque Socialists, of Tourism, of commerce, and of the chairman of the consuls, of the new campaign to inspect masks." Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u21	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr de Commerce, Tourism and Consumer Affairs. We're talking about the mask today. Seneca said no one can wear a mask for a long time. Obviously, it did not concern health care, because, first of all, we have been carrying it for a long time and because, moreover, I, at least, have the impression that it has come to stay and that, with other uses and perhaps with another regulation, in the future it will be an important tool to preserve health. We are also talking about a product that is probably very unique, because perhaps in real time all citizens never used an artificial product like this, to preserve health, to defend life. And therefore, in the department that you govern, through the Basque Institute of User and Consumer Defense, Kontsumobide, the challenge, the work has a special significance for these things that I am saying. The mask, in some ways, has been imposed from the political point of view of health. The political decision has been made that every citizen must wear the mask. It has an economic cost that burdens family economies, especially the most modest. It cannot be used on whim, but its non-use or misuse is punishable. In addition, citizenship has had to save the discomfort of having to live in this way that never... We hadn't thought about it or done it. And, therefore, let us say that we are faced with a duty of a civic character, of a health character, of a solidarity character, a duty that citizens have at this time. And it seems reasonable to a duty to accompany you with a right, which is the right to know what is protected and to know that it protects others. At the moment there are many doubts about the levels of protection of many masks that circulate around. There are even those who have thought that this was simply a business. And, therefore, those who manufacture and those who market have to do so with all the rigour, because we are talking about health and we are talking about life which, moreover, is one of the first obligations of any ruler, guaranteeing the right to health, the right to life. And that's why, at a time when the models have proliferated, the guys... the materials with which they are made, which is sometimes even called approval to anything, it is absolutely essential that measures be taken. And that, along with the two campaigns that his department has already carried out and that has generated worrying results, at the moment, there is a twist, precisely because there is a new regulation of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, which comes into force on the 30th of this month, and that allows it to go even further. And that is why in this Parliament what we want is, in defence of that health, that life and also in defence of the consumer's right to know what is protected and what is protected, what is this third campaign going to consist of? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u22	Thank you, Mr Price. Mr. Hurtado, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, we have been living for a year in a pandemic scenario that has served, among other things, to learn about the behaviour of the virus and the effectiveness of health measures. And we must be honest. Even now we have to continue learning because new strains, vaccines, studies that lead us to have to live with uncertainty, flexibility and continuous learning. And indeed, in this process, masks have been a fundamental key in the containment of the virus. At first, their use was controversial, but we've been learning. And also industry and regulation have had to adapt and specialize. At the moment, masks have proved to be one of the most effective weapons against the spread of the virus, and the competent authorities in market control and inspection must be particularly vigilant. And, again, we have to be honest. It is not always simple, because different administrations, competences and legislation come into play, which is sometimes difficult to coordinate. From Kontsumobide we have made it clear, from the beginning, that it is necessary, within our competence, to monitor a product that was acquiring increasing prominence. This is why we carry out several campaigns adapted to the circumstances of each moment, from the point of view of health measures and also of market developments and the product of masks. These campaigns analyzed the situation of labelling... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... the circumstances of each moment, from the point of view of health measures and also of market developments and the product of masks. These campaigns analysed the situation of labelling in the marketing of hygienic masks and PPE, since surgical machines, as a health device, do not fall within our competence. We detected many shortcomings in the labelling that were remedied. But we believe that it was important to launch a new campaign with a sanctioning character. This campaign is based on the already new order on labelling and characteristics of hygienic masks of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, which comes into force on the 29th. We will therefore start the campaign, the new inspector campaign, on 30, that is, Tuesday next week. Moreover, in view of the alarm created with the marketing of those known as grid masks, we did not wait for the publication of this order of the ministry, and we pre-emptively already carried out a laboratory analysis of a brand, and we verified that the bacterial filtration, which marked its labelling of 90%, was actually 15, so we removed them from the market and decided to consider these masks as a priority subject of inspection. Therefore, this new inspection campaign, which starts on the 30th, will be characterised by several points. First of all, let's put special emphasis on grid masks. Secondly, it will go beyond the control of labelling and will contemplate taking samples for shipment to the laboratory in order to analyze bacterial filtration. Thirdly, it is going to be a sanctioning campaign, as the market and the regulations have had enough time to adapt. And fourthly, we want it to be a quick campaign, so we have established an agile procedure. With these premises we also want to make sure that at all times the rights of consumers are respected with the legal guarantees that the processes will come to fruition. We must maintain all administrative deadlines for allegations, laboratory analysis deadlines and for communication protocol and alert network deadlines. That is why we believe that the campaign will be extended in April and May, as I say, always following all the procedures. And I do not go any further, but I would like to remind you that we are faced with an extraordinary pandemic situation in which the health authorities and the consumer authorities must extend the care of people's health and the preservation of their rights to truthful information. From the Basque Government, and as far as my department is concerned, we are working to strengthen this surveillance, inspection, information and training work, to ensure that none of these rights are effectively violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u24	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. The fifth point in the theme list: "The question is, as Charles Iturgaz Angulo, a member of the Basque Popular Groups of Ciudadans made to the president about the situation and the expenditure of the European funds." My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, good morning, everyone. On 25 January, you will recall, you met with Mr Sánchez in Moncloa and addressed, among other issues, the issue of European funds. The previous days there was some tension on account of the management of these funds, he will remember, but at the end, it seemed to open a sunny horizon, sunny of well-off partners. Days later, here in the budget debate, you secured free hands in the European funds, avoiding annoying parliamentary controls. With that, and promising growth, they scorned our 840 amendments that we have tabled since the People's-Citizens Coalition. We insisted on reducing current spending, saving in the administration and as nationalist spending to meet the sectors hardest hit by the pandemic. Its aim was to beat millions and unilateral lists of projects to be financed with European funds. It's only been two months, lehendakari, two. And those sunny hours of Moncloa, I'm afraid they're covered in clouds. Of the European funds we know more or less the same thing, that is, there is no progress, there is discomfort in the autonomous communities. But we were told – and you told us – that the issue of managing European funds was going to be addressed. And now, even Mr Azpiazu, criticises the unilateral tax design for the distribution of European funds, or Mr Ortuzar demands that we ensure that the money from European funds is applied well, and to those who deserve it, come on, that they do not trust their partners. But Mr. Sánchez is his partner, lehendakari, where you – the Basque Nationalist Party – put him and wanted him to be. We all know that there is a lot at stake in European funds and the government – which your party supports and maintains, Mr Urkullu – seems to consider it a private matter rather than a matter of state. And the Basques are the pagans, as damaged as the rest of the Spaniards, of the performance of such an unreliable partner, despite their privileged relationship. That is why I ask you how do you assess the current situation with regard to the arrival and management of European funds? And if I may, as I see it, what alternatives do you handle thinking about our budgets?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u26	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Stable, contact is in a state of standby. We've worked and presented the Euskadi Next project, according to the criteria established by the President of Spain in July and by the President of the European Commission in October. The subject, as you say, will remain very close and will continue, but we have not yet received any answers. So the rating is really salty. The Regulation itself of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism states that for the preparation and implementation of State plans, regional and local authorities must be involved and properly consulted. The Spanish Government, in my view, has not proceeded to carry out this consultation with the communities in depth at this stage. Spain will be one of the first countries in the European Union to present its plan. He preferred to arrive first, as we were told at the conference of presidents held in San Millán de la Cogolla on 31 July last year. And for this he chose to go alone, despite what he also said at that conference to count on a commission in which the autonomous communities would participate. Our assessment is that it would have been better to be accompanied by the communities to get further. The communities have smart specialisation strategies promoted by the European Commission itself as part of its cohesion policies that can catalyse the dual energy and digital transformation. We also have competition... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... by the European Commission itself, within the framework of its cohesion policies, which can catalyse the dual energy and digital transformation. We also have exclusive competence in public policies that may benefit from MRR funds; therefore, our participation in the design of the investment lines that affect them is indispensable. We have time. We have time and we are working with the Spanish Government to make our voice heard. This allows long lights to intensify the use of funds for transformation and resilience beyond recovery. I think we're in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u29	Lehendakari, it seems to me very good that you put the long lights on. But you also have to put the fog lights, because I think there is a darkening at the moment what is happening with your governing partners and the deal you are getting with the issue of European funds. Because I think there are reasons for and for concern. You're putting on I think the patch before the wound, I tell you. Yesterday, his spokesman, Mr Zupiria, said that there is a risk that with European funds what is happening with vaccines will happen. Look at what message you're sending. But you have quoted here in this rostrum the Next funds. And finally, the government delegate, Mr. Itxaso, tells his advisor, Mrs. Tapia, that a lot of funds... that there are many funds for the industry and that you or you want to confuse society with that issue or even call them political myopes. Your partners, your partners. So, in the face of this situation, I believe that whenever he asks us to rework together, I make him a proposal. That is why I invite you to draw the only possible conclusion in the face of the delay in European funds. First, let us identify items and expenses in our budget and put them at the service of the sectors hardest hit and most damaged by the pandemic. Secondly, let me ask Mr Sánchez, with us, Lehendakari, that instead of so much Plus Ultra aid, an independent authority is created to manage the aid from the European Union's funds, in order to put an end to the obscurantism and lies of its governing partners about the funds. What you're doing about your partner in Sánche is full of darkness with the European funds. And it's time to take other measures. And we give you our aid in the Popular Party and Ciudadnos to complete this darkness and seek an independent ruler to manage those funds.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u30	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Iturgaiz, we don't have funds Next. We have approved General Budgets, we have a Berpiztu Program, we have a Covid Fund, we have a Euskadi Next project that welcomes or intends to benefit from Next Generation funds. In any case, Mr Iturgaiz, I believe that we are in a background race that has only just begun. And I look at it in a positive spirit. We understand that it is beneficial for the Spanish Government, autonomous communities and local entities to play a more active role in the design, distribution and implementation of the funds, as we are claiming. This is the political strategy, the most effective practical strategy, within the framework of public policies, to which you have referred, which we have to co-decide with the State, with the Spanish Government. Euskadi is and will continue to be ready to contribute to the definition of a plan that lays the foundations for the progress and prosperity of future generations. This is the final mission of the recovery and resilience mechanism, the mission we fully share. In fact, Euskadi Next is the reflection of that will. It remains an open document. We are carrying out a thorough planning and identification of strategic areas; this has been recognized by the Spanish Government itself. The Basque institutions and the economic and social fabric need certainty in order to plan and begin to develop projects to optimise European funds. We can't stay static. I think, I insist, we're on time. And we will continue to strive to do so and implement the initiatives as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, Madia Martíne, a member of the Mistho group of the Greys, made to the president about the programme of conference." Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u33	Thank you, President. Mr. Lehendakari. Counselors. Parliamentarians. In the coming weeks, the Basque Government will be responsible for prison management and will be able to implement a model that will enhance the reintegration and enforcement of semi-freedom sentences. Hitzeman, the legal channel, is a programme of support to legal processes of resocialization of persons imprisoned for terrorism. Mr. Urkullu, are the benefits of this program aimed exclusively at prisoners who have been part of the terrorist gang ETA shared with the rest of ordinary prisoners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u34	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, Hitzeman was a programme that served as the basis for a pilot experience in the reintegration and resocialisation of prisoners, prisoners. Since March 2015 it has been developed for more than two years. This programme is not in force. But their conclusions will be taken into account when defining the prison model in Euskadi. This pilot experience was developed in two areas: resocialisation and reintegration. Resocialization through design... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... in Euskadi. This pilot experience was developed in two areas: resocialisation and reintegration. Resocialization through the design of post-penitentiary social reintegration processes from the care perspective. It was aimed at all prisoners, regardless of the crime they had committed. And reintegration for prisoners convicted of terrorist crimes. It was organized in this way because, as you know, the legislation sets out differentiated requirements for these assumptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u36	Mr. President, thank you. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u37	Thank you for your answer, Mr. lehendakari. The Basque Government would not have placed the transfer of prisons as one of the crown jewels to be transferred if the terrorist band ETA had not existed, and you know it. Precisely now, moreover, that it has stopped killing, now that the prisoners are not a headache for the Government and that, moreover, it can point the way. This, Mr Urkullu, is pure political opportunism. The Hitzeman programme was actually presented in September 2014. The subtitle clearly showed the orientation or trend of the document: the legal route called it, as if the Spanish Government's prison policy with the ETA terrorists had been illegal. It positions the Basque Government as a fancier of a fantastic solution that passes inexorably for terrorists in prison to go out on the street. Terrorist prisoners, only confirm a standard document, corroborating a sort of act of collective faith, since all sign the same, will acquire first-class prison benefits. Signing a model document is a strange way to bring something to the clarification of what has happened. The only way to show repentance would be to contribute with justice to the clarification of the 379 unsolved crimes. Say who coordinated the murders, who pulled the trigger, who planted the bombs, tell where and what they did with the missing persons, so that sooner they pay for the crimes committed. And, of course, not having on the basis of repentance the resolutions of a political formation like Sortu, whose predecessors were an active part of the generation of terror. Let's make it clear: killing on behalf of ETA guarantees you a first-class reintegration policy, with additional housing and RGI benefits. If the prisoner is a vulgar killer, without a gang attached to terrorism, he is one more numeral member of social affairs. While the Minister of the Interior every Friday approves the transfer of terrorists to prisons near our region, here the Basque Government is preparing for them to be placed in one of the three prisons in the Basque Country once they are in the third grade, and once that is the case, to get them shelter and facilitate their lives with the RGI. What are you going to work for, Mr. Urkullu? Mr. Lehendakari, don't set us up alone. None of the 59 resolutions adopted at the plenary session on 13 March 2019 spoke about the prison model we needed, but they did not refer to ETA members. However, in his plan, the one we talked about earlier, the Hitzeman plan, he does put the emphasis on them. Do not offer a letter of legitimacy to terrorists, Mr Lehendakari, we do not deserve Basque society. Make an effort, Mr Urkullu, but do so in order to contribute to the clarification of the 379 crimes committed still unresolved, to eradicate the tributes to terrorists and, of course, to make a story of the true history, in which it is really said who the victims and executioners were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u38	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Martínez, I will then refer to why the insistence on the transfer of pressure centres and non-compliance with the Statute of Gernika and since when, 41 years. In any case, Mrs Martínez, you should be told that reality does not spoil a headline in some medium of communication. Look, I personally delivered the Hitzeman program to President Mariano Rajoy. We're talking about the year 2015. That the Hitzeman programme was in place for two years. Therefore, in a government that is not the government that corresponds to the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. The General Secretariat of Prison Institutions and the Central Prison Surveillance Court first learned about the approach, development and follow-up of the Hitzeman programme. A programme within the framework of international human rights law and the European flow of restorative justice. And that's our model: resocialization and restorative justice. All information concerning the Hitzeman programme and the actions carried out by the Basque Government in the field of prison policy is documented and published. It is accessible and transparent. Look, Mrs Martínez, the index of the publication is very illustrative: project, clarification of the past, victims, memory, prison policy, education, religious diversity, asylum and vulnerable migration, international contribution; and, as an annex, disarmament and dissolution of ETA. I recommend your reading, in this case, of the fifth book, of this one which I am teaching you, which contains all the actions carried out in prison policy and, more specifically, of the second document which contains in detail all the information relating to the Hitzeman programme. You know, Mrs Martínez, that the Spanish Constitution in its article 25.2 states that the role of punishment must be the re-education and re-socialization of prisoners. You know that the General Prison Law points out that prison policy must be based on the principles of individuation, humanity and reintegration. You know that the Statute of Gernika, organic law, provides for the transfer of competence... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... must be based on the principles of identification, humanity and reintegration. You know that the Statute of Gernika, an organic law, provides for the transfer of jurisdiction from prisons to the Basque Government, in compliance with articles 10.14 and 12.1. The Hitzeman programme was based on this policy framework. The Euskadi prison model will also continue to take this framework into account. A framework, which I remind you of, must be based on the principles of the identification, humanity and reintegration of prisoners. A framework focused on resocialization and restorative justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interadectation by Jon Hernández Hidalgo, together with Podemos-Nozzer, members of the Antizian party, made to the president, II. Ninety times the Republic was declared. About the anniversary." Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u41	Good morning, Mr. President. The events that took place after the municipal elections of 12 April 1931, which ended up precipitating the change of regime in Spain and the proclamation of the Second Republic, are well known; I know that they are well known to you. Also the relevant role played by a Basque city in those days, I mean as you can imagine the city of Eibar. On April 14, 1931, 90 years ago, the Basque town of Eibar attended the proclamation of the Second Republic at dawn in the present Unzaga Square. Even before dawn, at 6:50 in the morning, Eibar became the first city council that proclaimed the Second Republic. The new consistory met, and took the first and symbolic decisions, including the change of the name of that same square, which until then was called Plaza Alfonso XIII, through Plaza de la República. From that moment on, the changes took place vertiginously throughout the Basque Country, throughout the State. And by five o'clock in the afternoon, the Second Republic had already been proclaimed in capitals such as Seville, Zaragoza, Donostia or Valencia. At about six o'clock in the afternoon, the official proclamation of the Second Republic was confirmed. In Eibar the calm was restored, and it was realized that he had entered the history of the country as a vanguard, so, once confirmed from Donostia the news of the official proclamation of the Republic, they decided to enable a large staircase and place a plaque on the facade of the City Hall for the new Plaza de la República, while the population accompanied the municipal band, choreographing the Marseilles, the International and the Gernikako tree. Eibar remained at the forefront of the new wind bet; a good example, the issue of the Statute of Autonomy. On 18 April 1931, when the new regime had not yet been officially recognized in many places, the city council of this city of Gipuzcoana launched its first party calling for the reform of the political code to apply for the Statute. In another Basque town, from which I come, or in which I was born, Irún, that afternoon on April 14, the new municipal corporation came along with hundreds of neighbors and neighbors to the international bridge over the Bidasoa River, to receive a multitude of Basques and exiled Basques on the other side of the Muga. Thus, the citizenry began the overthrow of a corrupt monarchic regime, which towards waters in social, economic and political terms. The people demanded to improve their living and working conditions, and to decide their fate. A change of state model that didn't stand there, and that didn't stand in the symbolic. That modernized the country, ending with many historical delays, fruit of the monarchic decadence: social rights, women's rights, public education, social security... The list of advances is long. And, among these advances, the recognition of Basque political autonomy. Therefore, the 90th anniversary of the proclamation of the Second Republic is not just an ephemeride. We are faced with historical and political events of fundamental importance for the future of the Basque Country, which should have adequate recognition by the Basque Government. The 1931 Constitution, which was born of republican principles and values, marked a milestone as it was the first to recognize and guarantee social rights such as assistance to sick and old people, protection to motherhood and childhood, or guarantee to workers of a dignified existence through protection in cases of illness, accident, forced unemployment, old age, disability or death. It gave access to public education, free of charge and universal to all citizens. During the Second Republic, the right to vote was recognized for women, including abortion, and divorce was legalized. The Second Republic was therefore born with the vocation of radically transforming reality and building a modern society, identified with democracy, freedom, human rights and social justice. The Republic was born with the vocation of radically transforming the reality of an almost feudal country, making effective the transit of servants to citizens with rights. The commitment of that model, of that republican constitution to democracy and popular will, was also credited with the popular election of the President of the Republic; the only democratically elected head of state in the history of the State, who was last elected under that constitutional rule on 10 May 1936. The principle of popular sovereignty was, therefore, materialized for the first time. The constitution of the Republic reflected the principles of parliamentaryism in Europe between wars, the primacy of the legislative power, the expression of the general will, in the face of the powers of the executive power or government. The parliament became, for the first time, the centre of political life, and a control body for a government. The Republic extended democracy, constitutionalizing the legislative referendum so that people could decide on the laws passed in parliament. The Republic has also constitutionalized a secular state, and I create a comprehensive catalogue of rights, including in private areas such as marriage, education, family, work or the economy. For the first time, there was decisive progress in gender equality, recognizing – as I said earlier – the right to vote for women, civil marriage with equal rights and duties of spouses, or divorce. The republican constitution meant access to all of our... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... for women, civil marriage with equal rights and duties of spouses or divorce. The republican constitution meant that all of our people had access to culture and education, which, for the first time, had become effective rights, guaranteeing the social emancipation of all people. To achieve this, the compulsory nature of basic, public, free and secular education was established, which meant an immense economic effort by the state. Probably the greatest effort in guaranteeing rights in the history of the Spanish state. And the Second Republic was also the beginning of a decentralized state model, with decentralization of power, and the arrival in that sphere of Basque self-government with all its vicissitudes, with all its political struggles, with all its contradictions. But it was the political change that ultimately allowed the birth of the first Statute and of the first Basque Government, headed, already begun to armed treason, by the lehendakari Aguirre, member of his party, and in whose government he also participated, with the portfolio of public works, as you know, a member of my own communist party (...) Astigarrabia. We hope that our country will continue to advance on a republican horizon of full guarantee of essential rights, not only civil and political, which must be developed to the end of any kind of discrimination, so that all people are equal before the law and so that all people can have equal access to the highest institutions of the state. I also hope that it will be a reality to advance in the plurinationality of a state that is, materially, plurinational. And also for us to achieve the full guarantee of the essential economic and social rights, so that all people have a full and dignified life. But for this it is necessary to recognize the value of what was a turning point in the democratic history of our country. The 90th anniversary of the proclamation of the Second Republic is not just any ephemeride, it is not another ephemeride. It is the anniversary of a milestone of transcendental importance for the historical future of our country. If we want to look at the democratic future of our country, we think we should look at the democratic history of our country. And there the proclamation of the Second Republic has a truncated role. That is why we would like to know what value the Basque Government attaches to the 90th anniversary, a round date for the proclamation of the Second Republic and what actions the Basque Government intends to take on such an important date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u42	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Herndez, July 18, 1936, part of the Spanish army rebelled against the Republic of 1931. It was an outrage in the state against the law and the established democratic constitution. This coup of the state, as you have said in your exposition, destroyed by the roots the remarkable social advances obtained during the time of the Republic. This coup of the state had at the same time given up political reflections on the manifold activity of the Spanish State. The coup was rebelled against the legality of the 1931 Republic. And, as you have said, Mr Hernández, you have mutilated the social progress that had been achieved before. This coup d'état aborted, in turn, any open political reflection on the plurinational reality of the Spanish state, to which you have also referred. A state in which they cohabited, and continue to cohabit, today different nations, such as Basque or Catalan. The result of the coup was a bloody civil war, in which the coup-makers received the help of Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany. In this case, in addition, the Condor Legion bombed different Basque municipalities. On 31 March we will remember the bombing of Durango and on 26 April the bombing of Gernika, the best known internationally, although there were more than thirty since the first one that took place in Otxandio, and that it is fair to recognize all those municipalities that also suffered the effects of indiscriminate or discriminatory bombing. In short, war, blood and desolation. And, in addition, the Franco dictatorship and the darkness of its black authoritarian tunnel, which lasted 40 long years of cruel and systematic repression. I take this opportunity, Mr Hernández, to express in this parliamentary forum, before all of you, who are listening to us, a respectful thanks to those who promoted and launched, in those years of the Republic, improvements and advances for society in general. All of them were buried in an imperishable way along the long tunnel of Francoism. I also take this opportunity to point out that, at that time, 90 years ago, both the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party had a great social implementation. Both parties, this is the current composition of the Basque Government, strongly supported the democratic legality and legitimacy of the Republic. The Lehendakari Aguirre, to which you have mentioned, formed a first plural and open Basque Government, with the participation of parties defending the legitimacy of the Republic, social justice and Basque self-government. Basque Nationalist Party, Socialist Party, along with the Communist Party, ANV and the Republican parties opposed the coups frontally. Many Gudaris and militiamen died on the front or on the walls. This anniversary also offers us the opportunity to dedicate our memory and tribute to them. The parties that support the current Basque Government, therefore, together with the other parties that formed it, resisted the dictatorship for 40 long years in the harsh underground. They maintained the legitimacy of the Basque Government in exile, and bequeathed to us the witness of democracy, hope, social progress, freedom and self-government of Euskadi. After the so-called democratic transition... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ...and bequeathed to us the witness of democracy, hope, social progress, freedom and self-government of Euskadi. After the so-called democratic transition and after the formation of the new Basque Government, the objective was clear: to bet on hope, the restoration of freedom, the restoration of democracy and the self-government of the Basque country. Over the past four decades, we have tried to continue this path. We have done so with successes and mistakes, no doubt, but maintaining the same values and the ideal we have received. Our commitment remains to bequeath a better future to our people. Honestly, this is the best tribute we can pay 90 years later. The Republican values you praise are also our values. I agree with all you've mentioned, and we agree. They've always been on a program and a program called "Ming-Ming-Ming-Ming-Ming-Mod-Ming." You have introduced the progress of the second republic, in a few instances, to guarantee so many social rights as to support the sick, to confess and to guarantee social rights, as to help old people, to protect motherhood and children, or to guarantee a decent life for the workers, to protect diseases, accidents, unemployment, old age, and death. You have mentioned other examples: the vote of women, the approval of abortions, public education, free and universal. I agree with your intentions, Mr. Hernández. All these ideas are part of our ideari. For, I think, these ideas are the best homage we can make to the mind of the republic. The republican values you quote are our values. I can only agree with them. They have always been present in the idea of the Basque Government, also in the current one. Thus, guaranteeing social rights, protecting those who need it most, or promoting a dignified existence for all people corresponds to our ideal and is part of our program. For 40 years, that is, from the very beginning of the political transition, the Basque Government, who have alternately and have participated in this executive, we have committed all and all, irrevocably and to the extent of our possibilities, to these aspirations and goals and objectives. And that is the case, Mr Hernández, that in fact I believe that maintaining this idea is the best tribute and recognition that we can make to the spirit of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours. Please, I'm asking you to remove that sign. Please, I ask the guests to remove that sign. Please remove that sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. It seems to us that beyond the statements about maintaining the values that I am not going to criticize, that then in the political debate, in the daily action we can discuss about the vision that each one of us has about how these kinds of values are put into practice. But we think that the Second Republic, as I said before, and the 90th anniversary, a round date of the Second Republic, is a date of a fundamental significance for the continuity of those values and for the democratic history of our country, on which the different groups in this House will also have different visions. But I think it is a date of undoubted significance (...), and that is why we think that, beyond the fact that you convey to us that the government in its idea, even in its programme, collects those values, we think that the Basque Government has to play a role in highlighting what was for our people the advent of the Second Republic. And it has to be put into value with concrete acts, with concrete actions that have significance and that allow society also to know the role that it played, and that it plays, in our democratic history that historical fact. We are connoisseurs, and you know that I am connoisseurs, of the actions that are done in relation to the recognition of gudaris, militiamen and what was the struggle before that fascist coup. You know, moreover, that this issue is often a matter for our group, but today I am talking about a historic milestone that is the proclamation of the Second Republic. It is true that they are related, but the role played by the advent of the Second Republic in our country is a turning point in, as I said, democratic history. It is not so much a matter of remembering how we defended or how they defended that democratic legality and those values, but it is also a matter of recognizing how they arrived and what they assumed when they arrived. And so, what I'm going to take advantage of to ask your government to make a recognition on the 90th anniversary, a round date of the Second Republic, the recognition that we think the Basque Government and the Basque people have to make that point of inflection so important in our historical future. We don't think it's done. We don't think he's scheduled. It is true, we know, we know the situation in which we are in, we know how the pandemic conditions and the priorities are different, but we think that the Government should have been more determined to promote explicit recognition of what the Second Republic was about. That's why Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita invited his government to do so. And also, I say to you, that we will bring a motion so that this Parliament too, in some way, will make that recognition of what we think. It is a landmark in the democratic history of Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u46	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. President, your word is yours. [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... in the democratic history of Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u47	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Hernández, indeed, we can discuss the application of the values that we associate with an ideaary launched in the times of the Second Republic. I understand that we agree in the search for and aspiration for a more just and equal world and society in every sense. In any case, you asked me what special actions the Basque Government is going to organize on the occasion of the 90th Anniversary of the proclamation of the Second Spanish Republic. In his first speech he referred to popular sovereignty and Parliament, and in this second speech he also said that they are going to table a motion in this Parliament. Look, of course, in Euskadi, I begin by highlighting all the work done by the Basque Government in the field of the principles and values that you have mentioned before, both in the social sphere and with self-government. Also the work of recovering the historical memory, which has been carried out by the Gogora Institute, which is carrying out the Gogora Institute, actions in which you, of course, participate and I also recognize your involvement in it. I sincerely believe that today the best tribute we can make to those people and to those policies of progress of the times of the Republic is to focus on those same policies and values that the first Basque Government launched in time of the Second Republic, to continue working on them is the best tribute we can give. In any event, the Government will join in the initiatives that were, where appropriate, approved by this House on the occasion of the 90th anniversary. It is fair to recognize the Second Republic's framework for the adoption of the Basque Statute of 1 October 1936, and in this regard I also invite this House to reflect on this historic date of 1 October, when this year, this year, the 85th anniversary of that first statute is celebrated. As a President, I work every day, and will continue to work again for a more just and equal society, in every respect and in every point of view. We are all necessary, necessary, and answering. We need everyone's contribution in that challenge. So let's not give up. To renew this proclamation for the neighbourhood, it appears to me also that it is a homage to the spirit of the republic. With all due respect and humility, we all propose to meet this difficult situation of ours in order to recover the spirit of our country. We work and work every day for a fairer, more supportive and more egalitarian Basque society. There is no one left in this endeavour. All of us are necessary and also co-responsible. The pandemic that you have cited also in relation to what can condition any act that we can carry out in the commemoration of the 90th anniversary, also with the look placed on the 85th anniversary of the First Statute on 1 October, the pandemic is putting us to the test and in the difficult moments that we live we have the opportunity to make practical record 90 years after we know how to attend to the best delegate and the values of the Second Republic. To add and collaborate on behalf of society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "I'm asking you, Elisabet González Rodríguz, together with Podemos-Nozzer, a member of the Anitz team of the United States of the United States, about the management of the residences of Domus Vik Basque Autonomy." Gonzalez andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u50	Good morning, Mr. President. Today I am going to ask you about something that we are very concerned about and that is a matter of first order, and it is the management of residences and scandals that have derived from them. We're used to asking the counselor, but, well, it's your turn today. When it privatizes, it commercializes, and then we start to manage from unhuman positions and unworthy issues that are deeply human. And this is what has happened with the privatization of residences: precariousness, opacity and death. Prepresences that have but little continction are handling a very complex subject. He's not taking care of his life. Old age is conducting itself in germinal mode. No se cuida la vida, sino que segestiona genalmente la vjez. N-A-N-S-N-N-E-N-N-N-S negocio con la vida, specculación con la muerte, with life in business and death speculation. Dependency is the new niche market, so locals are bought, vulture funds are given, and billing. This angers, hurts and worries a lot. Thirteen residences in Euskadi run by a company behind which there are vultures funds Domus Vi could be taking commissions for drifting dead people into residences. This could be a scandal. Eta, beraz, nire gallera da: Eusko Jaurlaritzak ba al du egoera horri aurre egitek neuroririk aurreikusita eta errepikatzen jarrai ez ten?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. González, I invite you to place yourself in the organization and government of the euscal system of social services. The jurisdiction of each level of organization that constitutes the system regulates and determines the laws of 12/2008. According to this law, the management of the centres of the ages for the old belongs to the alienal fordunities. The funeral services you talk about in your question don't work. So I don't understand why you plan to start an action that doesn't belong to our jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. González, your word is... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. González, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u54	The Basque Government has a figure called the High Inspectorate, which is responsible for ensuring that the administrations fulfil their role. But the problem is pattern. What we need is a publicization, a privatization, a lack of transparency, a scandal, and a preparation. And there's a lot of data. Don't you? The figures of dead people are not the same if they are given by the deputies or by Osakidetza. The results of satisfaction surveys are not the same if they are done by family associations or if they are done by members of Parliament. Women workers have been denouncing the precariousness of their conditions for years. Family associations such as Babestu, Gipuzkoako Senideak or even the pensioner movement have been asking for time to be taken care of and their demands met and not taken care of. The motions and proposals that we have tabled from our group on General Meetings, and right here, are rejected over and over again, and come with very concrete proposals. The management of residences, by the deputies. Three different models, three differences in criteria, mistrust and the leadership of the Basque Government in this whole situation, absent. The High Inspection? Absent, too. But well, I think we need to get back to the DomusVi issue, which is one of those scandals that has now jumped into the media. And that's not only that, it's accumulating complaints in every territory, we know, and we see that you do nothing. Can you confirm that the DomusVi scandal is bluntly false? Because they should be proactive, and, some ideas: to investigate these companies, to verify that they do not engage in the violation of the rights of residents, to offer guarantees that it will not be repeated and to do so, moreover, urgently. Begira. Who's taking care of it? That you take care of, that you take care of public institutions, that you take care of them with dignity and conditions, with rights. Lukro is a shop gabe zaindu, duntasunez, é modu publikoan zaindu. Take care of yourself without doing business. Caring is also political.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Gonzalez, do not confuse you, or do not mix up, what is Law 12/2008 with what is Decree 283/2010. Nor do you confuse your intervention, your reference to all the institutions, with what is the competence of the Basque Government. In any case, you yourself have said so, your group has representation on the General Boards of the historical territories, and it is for the outlaws to be responsible for inspecting the residential centres of older persons, for identifying breaches of the regulations and for taking the relevant measures. The responsibility of the Basque Government is elaborated in Decree 283/2010, of the High Inspectorate that you mention, in the field of social services, but our responsibility is to ensure the effective exercise of the subjective right and to address the aspects relating to access to the benefits and services of the social services portfolio. And that is what we are doing, and that is what the Basque Government owes us. During this time of pandemic there has been a constant communication and collaboration of the Basque Government with the competent outlaws in the residential centers. And both the Lehendakari – who talks to the deputies- and the Health Adviser, as well as the Councillor for Equality, Justice and Social Policy, with the deputies for Social Action, we have maintained a permanent relationship. The containment of the spread of the virus and the proper care and well-being of the elderly has been the basic premise of the actions of all institutions. We have made a lot of progress and we have learned a lot and it has reversed in improving the care and quality of life of people in residences, and we need to continue to improve. In fact, at last week's meeting with the head of Elkarrekin Podemos, with Miren Gorrotxategi, I raised the new socio-health strategy as one of the meeting points to advance collaboration. It is an inter-institutional issue and I hope that at this new stage – after the teachings of the pandemic – we can work together to improve the strategy and service we offer to older people in the present and in the future. In any case – and also in relation to a motion you have made – I am convinced that if there has been any kind of bad practice on the part of this mentioned company, or other companies, the competent institutions – that is, the Spanish Government's Ministry of Social Rights and Agenda 2030, the outlaws and the Public Prosecutor's Office, which is being investigated – will take the necessary action and take all appropriate measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "Interadecialization, by Carmelo Barroja, by Euscalia Popular-Chaulian-Cellaans, member of the Second Vice President and Chief of Staff and Empedugu, the Council of Susstainment of Social Economy." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u58	Thank you, President. Good morning, Lehendakari, Vice-Lehendakari, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. Good. This interpellation – which again deals with a topic that we have dealt with recently on social economy, but from another area, from another orbit – could have a double aspect in addition: the first, which responds literally to the question of the initiative, that possibility of creating a Basque council of the social economy and, the second, to the participation of our autonomous community in the recently revived Council for the Promotion of the Social Economy, on the proposal of the Ministry of Labour and Social Economy. This council, which has just been revived, regulates the participation – I hope effective – of our autonomous community in the work and important functions assigned by law to it and, in this case, by Royal Decree to the Council for the Promotion of the Social Economy. We all know, of course, what the social economy is, what Law 5/2011 made very clear, that set of economic, business activities that, in the private sphere, carry out those entities, in accordance with a series of... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... this set of economic, business activities, which in the private sphere carry out those entities in accordance with a series of very clear principles: primacy of people and social purpose over capital, democratic and participatory management, application of results for social purpose, internal solidarity, etc. It pursues either the collective interest of its members or the general economic and social interest, or both. That is, in that sense, we know that expression and definition and we know that many companies or entities carry it out. Of all the expressions of the social economy there is presence in the Basque Country, of all, to a greater or lesser extent. Cooperatives, mutual societies, foundations, associations carrying out economic activity, labour companies, integration companies, special employment centres, fishermen's confreres, agricultural processing companies and individual entities created by specific rules in relation to those principles which we have discussed. In other words, many of these expressions of which we have spoken are grouped into important federations, important associations and even important confederations. We also have an important network of companies and social economy entities. We have institutions in the university field that are dedicated to studying the legal, economic dimension of this very important sector in our economy. We have a Basque observatory of the social economy that analyzes the reality, lately there has been a slowdown – without any doubt due to the current situation in the last year – in relation to some indicators, some magnitudes to identify. But there is that Basque observatory of the social economy, which we have to say recently too, has published a report made in that observatory in relation to women in the social and solidarity economy, a very important report that is also accompanied by how this form of economy is developing also in that area. And that report, Women in the Social and Solidarity Economy, shows that it is. There is a network of entities, axes, called the Basque Association of Social Economy. A Basque network of social economy that brings together the most important social economy organizations in Euskadi: Konfekoop, Asle, Gisizaza, REAS, EHLABE, from that private point of view that is that association. Therefore, what we propose with this inquiry is a reflection for bringing together these areas that we have mentioned, these academic or associative or business areas, together with the institutional ones, in a space with institutional and advisory characteristics and functions, consultation, promotion, above all, dissemination, promotion of the social economy. This may be a pertinent, interesting issue, and that is why we are conducting this inquiry. Act 5/2011 of 29 March 2011 on the Social Economy also regulates, in its article 13, the council for the promotion of the social economy at the Spanish level, at the state level. In particular, in the third point, it states: "the council for the promotion of the social economy shall be composed of representatives of the General Administration of the State, of the autonomous administrations and/or associations, local entities, etc., etc.". On the other hand, most importantly, the Council of Ministers itself of 21 February this year agreed to reactivate the council for the promotion of the social economy and to speed up and optimize its work. Article 8 of Law 5/2011 also regulates the promotion and dissemination of the social economy of the said law. He said that "in the development of activities to promote the social economy, the competences of the autonomous communities will be respected". That is why I want to say, by respecting these powers perfectly, it is apparent that this connection to a Basque council can be appropriate; in the same way that the ministry, within its sphere of competence, makes this connection for the advice of consultations to a council of the State, in which the autonomous communities participate. And there, from the General Administration, the necessary mechanisms of cooperation and collaboration with the autonomous administrations for the development of activities to promote the social economy will be promoted. Good. For us it is clear that both the participation by the Basque Autonomous Community in the said council of social economy, now reactivated after the Royal Decree and under the protection of Law 5/2011 is good, and in that we can talk. And, of course, we understand that the best represented in our autonomous community because to influence, because our weight within the social economy in Spain is important, let us say nothing in the cooperative sector, but also in the others. And that is why this participation in the said council, such as the possibility of setting up a Basque council for the promotion of the social economy, are issues that for this group are presented as important in view of the possibilities that the companies, the entities of the social economy can represent in the future, right? Within the framework of this broad regulation and of this broad concept of social economy, also heterogeneous and diverse, but broad. That is why, in view of these issues, we have raised this question with Mrs Mendia as to whether it is the intention of the Basque Government to tackle the promotion of the social economy through the creation in the Basque Country of a Basque council of the social economy which joins the broad sector. It is quite clear that interpellations must be made as indicated in the Rules of Procedure, there cannot be two expressions in relation to these things. We add a little to the Government's position on this issue and also that of participation in the council for the promotion of the social economy of Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u59	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Barrio, we're back here... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Well, Mr. Barrio, we're back here. And first of all, congratulations on your conditioning, right? In fact, in the formulary of your question, in the name of the Pontarian Party and of Ciudadans, you admit that in Spain there is a government which now acknowledges the essential function of the social economy. As to the same question, each step in the economy of society is answered by the economy of society, and we will do it from the government. And three weeks ago, as this legislature decided, we'll do it with the strategic plan. It's a government commitment, and it's a warrant for this legislature. Because in Euskadi we have been able to make the way for the social economy and for the participation of the various organisations in decision-making. And you know that, because it has been in this Parliament for many years following this issue. We have been doing this since the year 82, with the first Cooperatives Act; there we already predicted that there would be a body for the promotion and representation of cooperatives and their organizations. We did the same when we renewed the Law in the year 93. And finally, in 1996, the Confederation of Cooperatives of Euskadi was created, and the Higher Council of Cooperatives of Euskadi began to focus its efforts on the fulfilment of its own functions under the Law. And this advice, which you mention in this inquiry, has not been reactivated, as you said in your inquiry; it has been launched. This Council is a pioneer in Spain. It is a public consultative and advisory body of the Basque public administrations. But we know that cooperatives are not the only form of social economy. That is why we have decided to make a strategic plan. We had decided before, from the past legislature, we included it in the Basque Government's agenda for this legislature, and you proposed that this House should also endorse it, just three weeks ago, as you yourself mentioned in your speech. And to arrive at that plan, first, we will seek consensus with the social economy itself, with all its families and typologies. And all this you know very well, Mr Barrio, but you wanted to bring at least two good news to this House today. And that's good. It is Friday, and it is good that we bring good news to this House: that the Government of Spain follows the path we opened up a long time ago in Euskadi, and where we welcome it, and that the PP... I suppose also Citizens in this case... is very much in agreement with the Government of Spain. That's good news. And perhaps you, Mr Barrio, were bringing us here today, in your pretension, a strictly sectoral debate, and in fact because you want to send us a message of greater political silence. In any case, I have to tell you that from the Basque Government we are very much in agreement. And I am also glad that they share our actions, that of the Basque Government, and also that of the government led by Pedro Sánchez, the Government of Spain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u63	Yeah. Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs. Mendia, Mrs. Vicelehendakari. Why will I not agree with the Government of Spain on the enforcement of laws? Well, when we are talking about the ordinary implementation of Law 5/2011, which establishes the Council for the Promotion of the Social Economy and the participation of the autonomous communities in that Council for the Promotion of the Social Economy, and it is clear that I have to agree. The last Minister of Labour of the People's Party, moreover, was the one who promoted and made and drafted the strategic plan of the social economy for Spain, still in force; it will now be replaced by a new strategic plan. That is to say, that, in that sense, of course, my parliamentary group, and the parties that make up it, fully agree with the impetus and encouragement of the social economy in all its dimensions and in all its variants. That's why we salute – of course – that's good news that reactivation. It is reactivation, because that Council was already regulated before; another thing is that it did not work but, somehow, it is a reactivation. But in any case, very well. Well, make it definitely, and go that way, don't you? And that's why we had made you the intention, that is, if you had any foresight, or the reflection that I put to you on a Basque council to promote, or advise, the social economy might come from, right? Because, in fact, you have referred to what the Cooperatives Act speaks of the Higher Council of Cooperatives. The Higher Council of Cooperatives, in fact, has a very important mission to fulfil in relation to cooperatives; not in relation to the whole social economy, which is much broader. It's very important. We also contributed to the last... And of which we are supporters... That is why, of course, we support the latest Cooperatives Act; we also work hard to enrich it. And, in that sense, there is our approach. But the Higher Council of Cooperatives has its mission, and what is the Council for the Promotion of the Social Economy would have another, because it would bring together the whole framework of the social economy, or its associations and federations or confederations, with the institutional attitude. I mean, I think... And besides, I have to tell you that I'm not asking you... because in other communities there are already, aren't there?... a Basque law of the social economy. That a Basque law would be fine. We have a law on cooperatives, but, for example, I advise you to take a look at it, which you will probably have done, or your team will have done, at the Galician law of the social economy, where you also set up a Galician council to promote the social economy. It is also very interesting that it links the whole sector. I mean... Or the Andalusian Council of the Social Economy too. That is, beyond the cooperatives themselves, which have their own, a broader one, which is regulated by decree. Or the decree also regulating in Castile-La Mancha the Regional Council of the Social Economy. Or the Advisory Council for the Social Economy in Murcia. Or that bill that now, a party like yours, drives in Aragon, in relation to the social economy, where there will also be a council to promote the social economy. Or in Asturias, where the Foundation for the Social Economy is in the public sector, driven by the government... also in this case... by a socialist government. I mean, what autonomous communities, with weight... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... for the social economy is the public sector driven by the government, also in this case by the socialist government. That is, that autonomous communities with weight also in the social economy and with the enterprises of the social economy have already articulated this mechanism. I, come on, I think it's a good reflection, I propose it as a reflection and as an analysis, because I think it's a good impulse. We have a strong sector of the social economy in its varieties, I say again, some more than others, but all represented, and there may be a theoretical, practical framework for action, consultation, advice, promotion, cooperation in the social economy. That is why, I mean, my question goes in the collaborative way, in recognizing the efforts of the different governments of Spain, the latter and the previous ones, I say again, of all the previous ones, because everyone has been evolving in relation to the enrichment of the social economy, and of those here too, we have to see, I have witnessed that, but, in that sense, I think that there may be one piece missing, there may be one piece missing in relation to that question. It's a suggestion and I'll leave it there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u64	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u65	Well, with the substantial agreement, and I think we share that this autonomous community, of course, in the social economy, whether they are cooperatives or labour companies or companies involved, is a model that is looked at from many places in Spain and from outside Spain, obviously we always have to keep moving forward, but we have to do it – at least I see it this way – in the hands of the sector and in permanent dialogue with the sector. And to me what surprised me – and I was saying it in the first round, Mr Barrio – is that you, three weeks ago, brought us here a question too, an initiative, about the interdepartmental strategic plan of social economy that the Basque Government is already beginning to carry out, and that it has to do not only with an internal dialogue within the Government, but with a dialogue with the sectors to which this plan is intended. In addition, we are going to bring it to Parliament under monographic debate, so that the groups in the House can make their contributions through motions for resolutions. But I think this is the way we have to explore in everything that has to do with the social economy. And that reflection that you put forward we have to analyse within the strategic plan that we are doing. What draws my attention is that, listening to you, I do not know if you have really spoken to the protagonists of the social economy, which is not in the sphere of cooperatives, but of the (ALES?), of the companies involved, to present this initiative. Because we, from the department, have been working with the sector, elbow to elbow, many years. And the claim they have exactly goes in another direction. Their most intense demand – and there we have accompanied them at all times and we continue to accompany them to the sector from the Basque Government – is the amendment of a state law, Law 40/2015, of labor companies and participating companies. And they're what they're in, they want to develop that. And not only the sector of the Basque social economy, but also at the level of the whole of Spain is a demand that they have put on the ministry table. And that I, on all the occasions I have been able to speak to the Minister of Labour, have put that issue on the table, with a work, moreover, developed by the Government according to the sector. That's exactly what the sector demands. And I believe that we should not order the sectors either by motion or by motion, but I do not believe that the Government has to order it by decree either. This issue that you raise today may or may not be interesting, but we have to do with the sector in the framework of the strategic plan and, of course, also in the framework of the dialogue with other political groups that in this House will certainly contribute in the time when we bring the matter of the strategic interdepartmental plan. Therefore, I believe that what we have to do here is to work together, to contribute all. And I believe that in that in Euskadi all the institutions are aligned in development and in the stake for the social economy. It has been shown that it is the economy that has best resisted pandemic times, that puts the person at the centre, that for its highest priority is quality in employment, the vector of equality is permanent. It is therefore a clear commitment of the Executive for its Government Programme, but also for a long history of working hand in hand with the sector and of commitment to the social economy. I, just a few days ago, presented, precisely at the hands of a social economy company, a project to develop the care economy in Euskadi from the point of view of employment profiles. They are therefore very present in all the actions of the Basque Government. So, finally, Mr Barrio, I, as you said at the beginning, am very pleased that you share the policies being taken by the Spanish Government to promote the social economy. So I think you have to agree a little, too, because some of you are very critical of the Spanish Government and others because they come here to applaud. And I really hope that this issue of the social economy will be dealt with seriously, supporting us in this long work that we are going to develop over the next few months of the interdepartmental strategic plan, and that we can then continue to agree in this House, as we have agreed on all issues relating to the social economy, by a very large majority, if not unanimous. I invite the House to hold this debate with this climate of will to agree and work for the social economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Pazis Gartega EH Collectors for the Second President and Chief of Staff and Empedugus, the necessary measures to face the hardships of the work." Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u67	Yeah. Thank you. And good day to all the congressmen. And good day to all the workers you're up there. ELA, LAB, STS... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u68	Yes, thank you, and good day to all the members of the legislative class, and good day to all the workers who are at the top. ELA, LA, LA, LA, SIB, Steilas, EHNE (...) the syndicate syndicate unions that have reported a week ago, the economic stop caused by COVID19 has not stopped the drama of accidents and professional disease in 2020. It's not exactly the same as economic activity. Since the beginning of 2021, ten workers have died. I mean, almost every week since the year started, a worker died at work. The majority of unions have reminded us that the labor stripers are another pandemia that must end. So we have brought the same question that the unions have extended to your government into the legislature: When will the Government receive necessary measures to prevent the accidents of the work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. To answer, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u70	They've taken urgent measures. And Osalan works every day to avoid the risks of work, and has been working on this subject for 28 years. And these are the targets. And the preventive measures are taken, and preventions and plans are made, and they sit on the table. And they give advice and help to companies and workers. And there was an extraordinary answer to the pandemy. And, thanks to this exceptional response from Osalan, we were able to have lower rates of infection in Basque companies and workplaces, in Basque workplaces, compared to other autonomous communities. Thanks to the work and prevention plans carried out, side by side with the sectors, for the start-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u72	Yeah. We do not question the concern the counselor may have. But the data released by the trade union majority are serious enough to make labour sinestrality a priority issue on the political agenda of any government that aspires to a more just society. And that's what we don't see so far in your government. That centrality. Besides, these facts on working accidents show that preventive systems and working dangers are not working properly. In front of the personal, familiar, social tragedy that brings so much loss of life in the labor centres, this government must go further than it is now. The government requires firm and clear commitments and effective measures, especially with all the necessary resources, with all the necessary financial and personal resources. In the beliefal terms of the majority, it's only 0.01% of the budgets for this year that you're dedicating for your health. Continued failure to comply with the Occupational Risk Prevention Act 25 years later is one of the biggest causes for us to continue to suffer from labour injury. And this non-compliance will continue to occur if no action is taken by his Government, measures, some of them urgently and courageously on three issues. One, to promote employment with rights, because only decent and decent employment protects against being forced to work in conditions of job insecurity. And for this reason, Euskal Herria Bildu again insists on the need to repeal labour reform. Two, effective control and sanctions against the offending companies. This requires strengthening the labour inspection. We are far from the ILO ratio of an inspector to 10,000 workers. In our community that ratio triples. The ten contracts agreed upon by his Government had not even been implemented. And finally, the third, we need new tools for new public employment and occupational health policies. It is also necessary to address the levels of self-government, because one cannot say one day that it is not a matter of talking about self-government, because one has to devote oneself to the crisis generated by COVID-19 and then, as you, Madam Counsellor, have done, justify that we do not have more staff in the labour inspection, because the competence to decide on this issue is in Madrid. And in conclusion, we have to talk about the measures we have to take, about all the unions, because they are what they know of the reality we have to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. To answer, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u74	Well, I think the first thing we need to be clear about, when we approach a subject as bloody as occupational sinestrality or occupational risk prevention, is the seriousness of the data. If we do not deal with the data, we will not be able to reach conclusions that are valid in order to implement effective plans. Therefore, that is the first reflection I would like to make. And, of course, we have to start from reality. And the reality is that the competence to create the places of labour inspection lies with the state, the Government of Spain. And now that you are so actively involved in politics in the Congress of Deputies and have a fluid relationship with the Government of Spain, encourage, as from here, from the Basque Government we do, so that you draw an OPE as soon as possible with regard to labour inspectors, that we have the duties done within the Government to ensure that these places are covered as soon as possible. Of course, the covid's excuse does not seem to me the most appropriate for the totum revolutionum of data that you have brought here, from the mouth of the unions, because I understand that you have come to read us the manifesto of the unions. I believe that we have to start, as I said, from the seriousness of the data and, of course, to say clearly that for the government it is a drama any accident. And, of course, a dead man is a very bad thing, even if there was only one. But every accident is a tragedy and every accident is investigated, it is punished if the norm has not been met. And statistics, as I said, have to be used to design the best prevention policies. And Osalan, in that sense, works with guidelines, with historical series that allow us to track the number of accidents, their circumstances, investigate them, be able to prevent them, and also the same with diseases. And it does it about Basque workers in businesses based in Euskadi, because I, by the number you have given, understand that you are not complying with those criteria that are followed in Osalan, because, to compare, we have to have the same series. Otherwise, it's not worth the comparison. And the fact is that the incidence of accidents at work in all sectors in 2020 has fallen. And I don't say that... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... that having the same series, if not, does not serve the comparison. And the fact is that the incidence of accidents at work in all sectors in 2020 has fallen. And that's not what I'm saying, as Osalan's website says, which is public and accessible to everyone. And finally, tell him that Osalan is not a statistical accident body. Osalan is born with the vocation of prevention of occupational risks and prevention of occupational diseases. We design prevention plans with the involvement of all the agents, with entrepreneurs, with the prevention delegates and with all the unions who want to sit on the Osalan council. That is why I also take the opportunity today to invite those unions that may be on Osalan's council by participating in the design of prevention policies, decide to stay out and prefer to use this way of expressing their position here today. But I believe that their place is there, in the design of policies, also assuming the responsibilities. So finally to say that with the occupational disease and the sinisterity, unfortunately, we are not going to end by decree, we have to end the best prevention policies.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. The eleventh subject on the subject list: "Ask me, Josu Estarronah, of the assemblies of Elizdo, of the Jews of the congregation, of the heads of the Jews, and of the officers of the Autoberon, about the spinning doors of the high house of Osa." Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u76	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Some of the former medical offices were dimitated and left office, and soon began work in the private Keralty Health company of the Medical Department. This company has been working with medical centers for years, whether directly or by other companies that have participated in it. The health Department has signed contract with them in the past few years, and it is possible that in the future it may also be hostile relations. In the case of former Darpón department, two months passed since he resigned to work in the company, but two days later, the former deputy directors and deputy directors of the Tumima Ansorium and Mayte Bacigalupes. These were rented into Keralty's company and after 48 hours, I'd be happy to hear about the influence of this public opinion for politics, for institutions and, in this case, to Osarize. So, Mrs Garagis, this is today's question to ask if you think it's the right thing to do if you're allowed spinning doors.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u77	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u78	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning. Mr. Estarrona, I really believe that these matters must be conducted by application of seriousness and objectivity and the regulation of force. Even more here. In answer to the question you wrote me, I tell you plainly that the series which I am directing keeps what is marked by the regulations which are established. We apply, on the one hand, with all subtilty, the Act of the Public Offices, and the Law of 1/2014, which regulates the conflict of their interests, the Decree 156/2016, and all the rest which are applicable to the duties and rights of public offices. The rules are very well defined by procedures and conditions, public (...). That's the game zone, not another one. In the case of people you've mentioned. These men made an application, and having examined the request, followed all the conditions of the regulation, the application was accepted. That's all there is. It's different whether you like the frame by force. That would be another discussion.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u80	Yes, thank you. There are courts of law and regulations to be observed. The ethical functions of a committee of ethics are, in fact, principles, legislation, and regulations. For this purpose there are courts, for which there are laws, and the courts will say whether they do or not. And we gave you the margin and saw things change at the Etica Committee, because we, as you know, checked this question in November 2020, but we didn't bring it up until today because Etica had a consultation with the board. We have behaved faithfully, but the dictatorship has come and is in the same direction as the former. Once allowed by the spinning door, seeking means and excuses to justify them, as you have given me today. And it is that Erkoreka has passed him an important brown, because until this month, March 2021, no opinion since August 2019. With a change of government and numerous appointments to positions of trust through. And don't put the pandemic of excuses, because the last annual memory of the commission dates back to 2017. But more worrying or serious than the malfunction or inoperation of the commission are the characteristics and meaning of the 68 opinions issued so far since 2013. Opinions devoted to the construction of exculpatory theses in order not to recognize the misconduct of most of the complaints. It may have to do, among other things, with the composition of the committee with three members of the Government itself, of the five that make up it, far from European standards for this type of body. And now, after this last makeup of the rotating doors in Osakidetza, they have on the table at least two matters to settle. They've been running Gogora's persistent awards for a year, headed by Antzane Ezenarro to Montai, and now they've been added to the VIP vaccinations and Mrs. Sagardui. But in accordance with the precedents, we already know in what direction these opinions will go, in that of exempting. They are going to dedicate themselves to making up acts of dubious honesty, of dubious ethics, as they have done to date. And in our opinion, when we come to this point, we have two choices: or leave the committee, for instance, for an independent office of suitable occupations, as it is in several parts of Europe, and as it is in several parts of the State; or at least that you call it the Board of Ethics, in order not to deceive people. And it is that, in our view, Mrs Garamendi, and when you come to this point, you have two options. One, or dissolve the commission and put, for example, an independent good practice office, following the model of the European countries in progress; or stop confusing Basque citizens and calling things by their name. Don't call it an Ethics Committee, call it an aesthetics committee.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u81	Thank you... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ...or stop confusing Basque citizenship and call things by their name. Don't call it an Ethics Committee, call it an aesthetics committee.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u82	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u83	Yeah. Mr. Estarrona. It's true, yes, there have been several weeks since you registered this initiative, and so on until now. You weren't interested in bringing her here, which means something. The question was, you wanted to go beyond what was planned, but you won't find me in that game. You won't find me there. Like I said on the first round, it's just like, "You know, it's just like, "You know, it's a good thing to do." And those charges you mention in your question have been carried out according to the law of force. All the documentation necessary for the purpose of regulating regulations was introduced to those high officials you have mentioned in your enterprise. The law defines clearly the conditions of passing public employment to private employment, and it is determined that for two years after the office has been left to the office, it can't have been connected with a person who has been connected with him during the next two years. It defines what the law itself is and what is not. I want to talk to him about that second. For in each of these two cases the technical reports recorded in the file confirm that both the one and the other follow the conditions of legislation. So there wasn't any reason why we could complete requested compatibility. And in the third case of your enterprise, it must be very clear that the same conditions apply to a public office in the state's work are not applicable to it. There is no reason, therefore, to doubt the reputation of any one. Things have been made in the right way, according to regulations and procedures, though you've got as many doubts as you want. If you want to change the frame, approved six years ago by a large consent, you know what the procedure is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. The twelfth theme in the theme list: "Interpology, found in Casanova Alonso EH Collectors in the Department of Economy, patience, and environmental chief, concerning the future industrial use of La Naval fleet and land." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u85	Thank you. And good morning to all. We met on March 9th the last stage of the creditor competition of the La Naval company. And already, as we all know, a Belgian team, a Belgian team working in the logistical area, bought the assets in 36 million euros. If their objective is to create a logistical site, even though the door to undefined industrial or industrial activities is open in various expressions. But in any case this would be a project that would lead to the disappearance of the fleet. When I first met this news, and I believe that most of the people on the left felt a strong feeling: astonishment in me, astonishment, sorrow, and anger too. The surprise, because I didn't expect it. Because I didn't expect you to be a strong industrial team to win that contest with funn safe. And it is true, in this government, that I have a great distance, and that I extend many criticisms to them, but I did not expect this. I didn't expect things to go so badly. I felt sorry that the end of our story, of the South, of the Basque People, was the end of a part of the history. In this country, in the Basque Country, there will be no great ships to be built again, such as these, at La Naval, (Leif Erikson? ), in time of the world (agaros? The greatest. They'll stay in the river of nervous photographs like this for history, even if the other smaller ships stop. The astonishment, the sorrow, and the anger, because I think the result would be different if things were done differently. Things had been done differently, and it could have been done differently. And that's why I got mad. And the last feeling, like in Pandor's safe, because I think we have a point of hope, because most of the societies think everything is not yet lost and possible by the industrial activity of François della Rebbia, and if possible the maintenance of the sector or shipship in those areas. Now what? Now, we've lost control. there is a private proprietor, and he will do what he pleases in the law. There's no chance of the new owner to push a project from the public sector if he doesn't allow it. The great ships will not be made; they seem to be clear. Know how it will be lost, a piece of wisdom, a part of the fortune and knowledge of our industry will be lost. 100 to 200 right jobs, and almost 1,000 jobs are lost wrong. The historical factory is gone, and it takes another step in the process of deinciliation from the left. Another step into hypermering the Left and becoming a storage area, the region was formerly a tractor in our economy and in our industry. Eta orain kexa asko éta malko asko ikusi éta entzun ditugu. Even by the parties that are part of this government. But we have to tell the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party that, in the case of La Naval, you cry with crocodile tears, because the closure of La Naval is the responsibility of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, with Arantxa Tapia, Councillor for Economic Development as the main responsible party. The result is this closure of a neoliberal ideological option, which has been based on the minimal public intervention of the state, as the neoliberals do not like, and in this case the Basque Government, which has limited itself to acting as a manager and circumventing, to omit its leadership responsibilities of the industrial policy of this country, thinking that an invisible hand would come to solve the problem. And, as we have already said, we said at the time from this atrium, Waiting for Godot, that magical investor who would come with the checker... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... visible to solve the problem. And, as we have already said, we said at the time from this atrium, Waiting for Godot, that magical investor who would come with the checkbook to recover the project. And Godot didn't show up and the Naval is gone. And now they are afraid of the consequences of their acts or their non-acts. In a bid for the best bidder, for liquidation and disposal of the assets, it has been taken by the best bidder. And if it has not been able, at any time, to articulate an industrial offer with the capacity to take over the leadership of the project, because the consequences are what they are. It could have been avoided. Naval was not a lost cause from a business point of view. It is not a company that died of starvation, but a company that died of indigestion, with a full order portfolio, working, and with medium- and long-term prospects for work, to which mismanagement led to a situation of financial bankruptcy, but which obviously had a market and possibility of having gone ahead. And now comes the typical recital of this government: "I hope", "I trust", "I desire". I hope that industrial activity will continue, I trust that there will be a project, and I hope that there will continue to be industry. The Government is not to wait, trust or desire, the Government is to do, for that is the executive power. And he didn't do it here. And as a result of not doing so, it is the definitive closure of La Naval and the possibility that its land will become a logistics centre. And it could have been avoided, yes, it has a long sequence of decisions and omissions from this Government, which have led us to the current situation. The PNV and the PSE refused to rescue La Naval, as has been done in Scotland and as has been done in France, public rescues of shipyards. The Basque Socialist Party and the PNV were unable to find a private investor who would assume the continuity of the shipyard, unable to find a private investor. They were unable – once they proved perfectly legal the possibility of a public-private society to take over management – or to find a private partner to participate together with the Basque Government – perhaps because they had no desire to participate – or to promote the creation, from the Basque business sector, of a company that could be a partner of the Basque Government in this project to replicate La Naval. Nor did it take place in the first phase of the competition procedure, before the yard was sold in pieces, when it was sold as a business unit, and it could have been purchased at the price of destruction, paying practically and exclusively the shipyard's debts with Social Security. Less than 10 million could have been acquired, and even if it had not been the Government itself that had launched it, it would have the assurance that any project there should pass the Government's acceptance filter and therefore have such an industrial character. And as a corollary, as an epilogue, the PSOE, the PNV and Podemos, in Madrid, rejected an amendment to the general budgets of the State presented by Euskal Herria Bildu to, precisely, enable a share of 10 million for the purchase at this stage of the competitive process of the shipyard. And now they complain and now they wait, they want and they trust that someone will come and give continuity to the industrial or naval activity, when you have had plenty of time and you have made all the decisions in the wrong direction. Mrs. Tapia, it's been a month since March to frame. He wants to put towers of 200 meters in a protected space; he wants to open a steelworks in the middle of a village; he wants to drill the lung of Gasteiz to look for gas. Looks like you're preparing the resume for the Attila Award. He's got into all the puddles, but just not the one at La Naval. You are neither the mayor general of this country nor should you be a lobbyist in the gas sector. You're an Industry Advisor and you have to protect the industry, and in La Naval you haven't, you haven't, you've suddenly failed. And now it's your responsibility to reverse that failure. And we'll stay here obstinately, pushing until the last moment to recover industrial activity. It's because we're gonna have to make some mistakes. It is time to act responsibilities after surprise, sadness, and anger. It's not time to stay still. La Naval's property must remain industrial, that's what the Left wants and needs it. It is not possible to repeat what you did in Babcock & Wilcox, to recalcify the Amazon, Costco, and hypermercated. EH Collector has already urged Sestano to maintain an institutional expression, and, of course, the protection of other parties to be an institutional expression, to confirm the industrial nature of those countries, and to maintain the industrial activity of the fleet. EH Collect will continue in the streets, telling what has happened in the streets of the Left, and proclaim the opportunity to maintain industry. We'll keep working on it. Because here we have two choices. This is an ad of the logistical site that wants to be built on the property of La Naval. It's sold, it's rental, it's still on no-exported. And this is what we wanted to keep industry and fleet. I'll bet on this to have another logistic site in a region where it needs vital industry. And I also announce that the last thing to do is to keep up for industrial activity, that the Basque Country will be asked for these seeds, these seeds, and other elements of cultural domain, to design a monument to those who belong to La Naval. It may be compatible with industrial activity, but we won't allow another host to re-establish itself and the destruction of our industrial domain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u86	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u87	Thank you, Mrs. President. The Chief of Investigation and the congressmen, all good days. Mr. Casanova, as you say, is a long history of La Naval Company. And it's been a long one, too, and it's been a long time since the business came into crisis. But I'll tell you something, I'm gonna tell you, and I'm like a team leader, but this is not the owner, it wasn't the manager. So that the cares, I think, may perhaps be elsewhere, each of us, ours, and each of us ours. But let's make a stew. He was closing up, with a process of alternativation... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... ours and each of us ours. But let's make a stew. As we went to shut down, we had a process of alternatin's work, and we worked with the company and the workers to prevent that process from happening. When he entered the conference, we worked for some exit we could find in that situation, where we're always a Administration and an organization. And we often say that you have also mentioned a company that will help the Administration, not vice versa, the Administration that will help a company. The administration assistant, but a private institution, a private corporation, has to be a precursor in a project like this. And finally the settlement and the judge's decision. It's not the last decision yet, because the final resolution has not been released. But, it is true, it seems clear what has been the winner, and we have also known the project's course. We've been spending years in this process I've been speaking very briefly, and every phase of the process has always been a joke about not helping or being seated, but making initiatives to help. We've been in Brussels, Madrid, the Modal Biscay, with the Sestano City and the Sectors, both local and outer, seeking a solution. And above all, there have been meetings with the workmen, well, without reckoning, some more agreeable, and others more severe, as the situation was. But there is no doubt that the Department of Economics has been in earnest, and that the best way is to work and help in it. But the solution, I repeat, must be private, and the public administration as an aid. As you say, it's always been a project of company or company groups that we've always been sitting on the table. According to this project, the administration would be helpful, and we said it and we're still saying it, ready to share, the president said it himself. So let's not forget that either, because maybe you forgot to discuss it here, where I am, the president mentioned it, but always as helpful, and we're still there. As we always do, the first administration step is to stand by, stay close, and help us find this solution. And we don't care whether we're Sestaon, be Zamudin, be Azpeitian or be Gaste, always act the same. If there is a project, if the company's will is clear and accurate, we'll be able to bring this economic activity forward by doing all the tramites that we have to do on the administration, the easiest, and the last, if it's a part of it. Just as it happened in other enterprises, and as it happens. It's not just La Naval, we participated in several companies, and we've talked about it here more than once. From the development of that La Naval project and others, we tried to find a solution, and there were solutions in the first phase, but there were other problems, as you know. And I don't just say it, because maybe I can be suspicious, but I just heard a few days ago mention the representative of a union that I had heard and that you were having other problems so you couldn't carry on. So somebody else talks about something like that. But all this is true, hard and difficult, but we're talking about the past. And I think we should look into the future at this moment. And as we desire future projects, and, I think, it is true that in this country we want the future projects to be mostly industrial, in all places, in all countries, and in all opportunities, the projects which we always push within the law seem always to pass over the law, always inside the law, with all its guarantees and all its advantages; and if possible, if possible, if they are not possible, these guarantees are above all others. That's for you to be clear. And if we are talking about the present and the future, I believe that, first of all, we must show our utmost respect for the competition procedure in the judicial field. And the public institutions, even at this moment when the award is not firm, we cannot and must not interfere in it. We have worked since the beginning of this competition procedure, even before, in the search for investors, but I was telling you, it was not because there were no options. There were also options in the first phase, but there were also other difficulties that told him that I not only tell them, I may be suspicious of his opinion to count it in part, also said the highest representative of a union that was present in La Naval. And, therefore, well, a part of the truth may also exist. The industrial project that has to exist in this area, of course, we are going to try to work in an intense way, but given the historical background that exists, and that you mentioned, there is already a will and a firm agreement, it was also during this week that I think it has been the deputy general of Bizkaia, between the Bizkaia Provincial Council, the municipality of Sestao and the Basque Government, not only not to requalify those lands, but to ensure that the uses that exist at this time in urban planning, which are mostly industrial, are guaranteed with the new project that will be carried out. It is about to conclude the competition procedure, and the Basque Government has the firm will to collaborate to the extent of the possibilities once the successful tenderer is firm, to propose alternatives, because there were in one of the alternatives presented, in the more than ten alternatives presented, vocation to continue with the naval activity... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... because there were in one of the alternatives presented, in the more than ten alternatives presented, vocation to continue with the naval activity, with the activity of building ships and activities associated with the naval sector and that we can guarantee the existence of this possibility in future with the new contractor. We have shown our full willingness, we have shown it before to any of those who came to present their options, which were winning options, industrial options, as were the majority, not all of them, of course the Basque Government will be there not only to make its tools available, its financing tools and other types of aid, but also to participate in that initiative if necessary. But you will understand that at a time when the competition procedure has more than ten open options, it is not lawful for the Basque Government to pronounce itself by one in particular, but after the award, it is now time for us to work on the three institutions, and that is what we are going to do. We cannot and must not allow ourselves to energize any option. We must work together to ensure that the option to be developed is the best one for the Left Margin and for the development of that whole area, which is an extraordinary area and a clear opportunity for economic and industrial activity for Euskadi.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u89	Mrs. Tapia, I'm sorry to say this crudely, well, you know that I have no personal animateversion towards you, quite the contrary, despite the political differences, but in this matter you have zero credit for me, zero credit. With this record of the last few years, every time... I really tell you, both I and other colleagues said, "it's that they already have it, they have it tied up, they have it tied up," and we're saying, "when you present it," that is... The project has to be with all the time they have had, with all the different options they have had to articulate a project in time and form to save naval activity, in La Naval, to tell me now that, well, now they will start to see what is done (...), it is that I believe nothing, I believe nothing. And therefore, our commitment is to continue to press until the last minute and until we see not the work, but the inauguration of the industrial activity that (...) there I will not believe, because you have lost the credit, you have lost all the credit. And it is also true that in one part we are coincident, because I have not been denied the greatest; that is, I have proposed that you were expecting a private investor from your neoliberal faith, to take the chestnuts out of the fire, and in any case, you (...) after to help, you have ratified me that it is indeed so, and that is that it has been the problem. The lack of pro-activity of the Basque Government not only in seeking an industrial investor, but also in creating other alternatives with the private sector, as has been done on other occasions, as has been done on other occasions, when (...) there is a need and within the framework of legality an alliance can be created, and there were reports, the workers (?They have reports. The European Union was not going to oppose it, and here the difference is that you have waited for private leadership rather than acting from a public leadership that might also have room for a private sector to share. Of course, the result is that they have failed there, and as they have failed we have failed and we have run out of shipyard, and we have run out of shipyard, as I said, if it had been a sector, and it is true that the naval sector is cyclically in trouble, if it had been a situation of these that you know, that there are companies or sectors that are really as they are and not, it is almost bloody to give them a year or two of life. But a shipyard that had a possibility of a contract simply with the renewal of the fleet of value to last years there, is that this is regrettable, it is regrettable and now we are as we are because there have been many opportunities for several years to do things differently and it has not been done. Even the competition process, as we said, has two phases. We don't say anything to the competition manager. It is that the last phase of the competition process is little less than an auction, the assets are liquidated in hedges, in lots, and the one that pays the most is carried, point, the administrator at that stage has done what he had to do, but in previous phases there was also a predisposition for a project to be presented that would give continuity. And there's one thing we don't approve of. There's a bull that's very painful. And that's what it's like to say that it's stopped working people's appeal here by making an industrial project. And we don't accept that. On the other hand, it seems to us to be false and painful. The other day, I had the chance to meet Erysin, because I met an ex-worker from La Naval, it was a weekend, and he told me he came from Ferrole, and not every weekend. There are others in Cad, not all of them, but they are in this condition. And some of them are members of the unions that participated in the appeal presentation. They're the worst. But the unions always said that if any investor approached with a serious project, they were willing to get rid of the appeal. They said it publicly and privately. And that's one excuse, one excuse, and a painful and false excuse. Besides, the Supreme Court cancelled the appeal of workers before the last phase of competition. There it was, after the appeal had stopped, to present offers before reaching the final stage of settlement. And even in this interval, these potential possibilities were not presented by appeal. Therefore, please, let us be honest, and do not act upon the workers as they do not belong to them. The company that has come here is a logistics company or light industrial activities that little less than are storage and transportation. We have a collective challenge and there we are going to be buru-belarri, buru-belarri, bathe egia esan, Gobernuak orine art egindakoak ez digu securtasunik ematen. You in the application of neoliberal doctrine are more papists than the pope, that it has to be a private investor who arrives first not believe it neither the liberals in France, nor the CDU in Germany or any government...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u90	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u91	... have an appreciation of its industrial sector.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u92	Tap... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... a private investor, who comes first, does not believe it either the liberals in France, or the CDU in Germany, or any government that appreciates its industrial sector.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u93	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Time's up. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u94	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. If we go to the previous stage, if we start making history, we may be able to go on for a while, Mr. Casanova. But I'm sure they said there were projects. The problem of appeal, not the only, but it was not the only problem, but it was the problem. And there were more than one serious project, and he spoke to the concursors and the workers. And it wasn't possible to get that knot out of there. But I'll tell you more. And I don't want to look back, but I want to make it clear. It's true that we've always said there must be private initiation. And that's what we've done for... More than one alternative. And in this process too. They didn't win, but somebody was interesting. But when we say that, it has also happened in other places. And in a moment I heard it, in an alternative to which the workingmen themselves could participate. And I heard that one day, but he didn't mention it any more. So there might be different alternatives, but it wasn't possible. And every one will have a little bit of responsibility. Maybe a little bit, but it's not all at once. As always, when there are problems, the cares are divided. And let each one take his own. As soon as... As I am going to try to talk about the future, which I think is what worries you and me, I think that we share, well, at this moment, when the final award, which is true, is a mere auction. It's price, it's not project. It's price, but we knew it. We knew it when we put the first one in jeopardy. So, let's be clear, we're not going to call ourselves now "what a scare I've taken...", because it was like that. The projects or the project presented by the company that, hypothetically, is going to be awarded, VGP, which has made public, and which you will undoubtedly know, says two things that worried you. One, VGP's future plans for a new park, with a main focus on industrial activities, because it knows what the urban planning of Sestao is, will incorporate existing elements to preserve some of the iconic features of the former shipyard. Then, well, at least there is will and, moreover, it is written will, for whatever it may be worth. Secondly, he says: "Over the years, VGP has developed many projects comparable to that of La Naval in Bilbao. And the main goal has always been to serve, mainly, local companies and traditional industries, with new modern and cutting-edge facilities." In that context we have to work with the company and some of the companies that are already doing so. And just repeat four messages. One, the public institutions have worked, from the beginning, and we will continue to do so, in order to find a solution, the best. Given the background and location in which all these lands are located, the plot with a clear industrial vocation, although not exclusive, in planning has to ensure that the activity is of these characteristics. , when we talk about industrial vocation, moreover, well, first and foremost, industrial vocation associated with the marine industry. Three. We bet on the private talks that we know already exist between private companies that are interested in continuing with the activity and the potential contract at the moment, to which we will support in order for the project to be carried out, which can be carried out under those conditions, associated with the shipbuilding industry. And finally, willingness of the Basque administrations, all of them, to meet with the property, of course, when it is, when the competition process is over, and with the companies concerned to carry out the best project and, of course, with our maximum cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Ask me, find Casanova Alonso, member of the EH Collect team, made for Economics, Amenability and Environmental Chief, to protect you from buying Aternovs ITP." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u96	Hello again. This news was published by a communication last week: "Los gobiernos centrual y vasco soula Aernnova a leadera cora de ITTP." The information was rather specific. That doesn't mean it's real, but if it was exact. And the next day, the two friends, the ones who are right together, asked you about it and answered a sort of confirmation. Mr. Below said you're in conversation with that process. And you insisted on the strong industrial vocation, etc. What we want to ask is if the process is working today, if the fun process is on, and if you're willing to help me financially and help me out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u97	Thank you. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u98	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Casanova, well, you know, we've talked a lot. The aeronautic sector is one of the most important for us. Why? Moreover, because it has the highest technology in view, and the employments it produces are of the most important, and of quality. In this case we also know that we have two companies in Basque, which are tractors. One ITP and the other Aternova. We have other companies that are important, including Sener, Ac source, or Alestis, but we also have smaller companies, full of values and such operations as are very important. What for? An operation, I say, to make a sales operation fit for their future. These are tractor companies. And we need to stay here. That's important to us. But not only in the aeronautics sector, because they have a relationship with the machine-remint sector or the energy sector, or digitalization, electronic and informant. So... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... They also have a reference to the machine-remint sector or energy sector, or digitalization, electronic and informal. So this sector has many horns and it's essential for us. Momentu honetan, hen, horrelako operazio bat ematen denean, hau da, at a time when everyone is known that the owner of ITP Rolls has put this company on sale, of course, one of the main elements is to get the operation to be the best possible. Of course, the pandemic does not help, but the best possible operation you know perfectly which one we define. Of course, in this House I think we can all agree that it is a project of vocation, of industrial continuity, of growth, of roots, of job generation, of continuity with the traction of suppliers. We can put a lot of grades on it. And that's the important operation. I mean, that Rolls, as the company's current seller in this operation, understands that that's the relevant thing. Are we in that operation working with the state? Yeah, trying to make those the main parameters, the characteristics of the operation. Beyond, who is it going to be; if it's going to be a company, if it's going to be another, it's going to be a consortium? I still think it's very hasty to talk about it. You have to have a little peace of mind and, above all, a little discretion. And in the sense that the Government can participate, assist in that operation, exactly as I said in the previous reply, the answer is yes, but provided that there is an important option to ensure these characteristics.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u100	From us, we must say, in the opinion of EH Collect, that the chance of getting Aterna IPT may, in principle, be a good opportunity, because two of the aeronautic firms in the eescal sector are the main companies. And we know that this sector, at the moment, is having temporary problems, but we think it's a future sector. And not only are these companies masters, but they're tractors, and it's essential to root the two companies of this country. We believe that this fusium or operation would strengthen the aeronautic eescal sector, producing a global volume company, which would improve its efficiency and competency. Secondly, stability and tranquillity may be brought to the two companies and their planets, which are at present rather shaken. Third, it allows you to enter the public capital in the sector, and you've admitted it yourself to be that choice. And fourthly, it diverts the possibility of selling these companies to companies that have no connection with the people, or to the investment funds of speculation, which tend always to weaken the conditions of labour, and destroy the employment. In saying this, we must say that we must say a little more, and together with our original approval, some shades or conditions must be established. In our view, the Basque Government, if it supports this operation, should seek an entry into the capital which gives it the capacity to intervene in the decisions of the new company, guaranteeing its social orientation. Secondly, we recall that the aeronautical sector is one of the main generators of greenhouse gases, so one of the priorities of the new project, especially in the area of engine manufacturing, must be to bet on energy efficiency lines focused on the necessary transition that the aeronautical sector must address. Thirdly, ITP is a company that has a large military component, and we believe that the option as a country is to move towards another industrial model. The new company should therefore progressively refocus its activity on civil aviation. And fourthly, but not least so, but perhaps at the moment, at least at this juncture, a factor to highlight and to put first, although the last one has mentioned, is that the new company should commit itself to employment and to the quality of employment, assuming the need to reverse the redundancies produced in recent months. He managed to put me in a position where no dice were ever seen: "Los laborers de ITP y de Aernova que están aquaí, cay los despidos qué?" "Y me ha llamado la gatención unno de los helms que pone: "Who and when do they have heads? "We are thinking of it here today. After all, the defence of the firm is the defence of the employment, and not the defence of the interests of the rich. So, if we protect this operation, we'll have jobs to create, work, and high employment, connected with an technological sector, to strengthen it in the Basque Country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u101	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u102	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Casanova, I think it's important not to mention a name or another name, because the operation may be different from what you mention or anyone else. For us, that's why I'm talking about it, it could be in the press. It's clear that IT is in the store, but I mean there are more than one actor in the game. Two things are important. I've mentioned the relevant traits for us. And we also need to know that in order to do all these things you've talked about to the future it's not only important to buy now, but to make big investments, to make pandemia better in the future. So we will look at the project in the general project, which is a functionary for the job to be made, for the future to be guaranteed, the future is rooted here and assured here. And all of them, the chance that matches those terms, will help you out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. fourteen points in theme list: "I'm asking you, The American Barroj Baroja, the popular team of the Ciudadans, the US Economics of Economism and the Chief of Environmental Branch, the Technicer and Vicomtech foundations of Navarre, the commercial relations of the Davalor Salud SL societa, the company of the Equietians." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counselor, counselor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning again. Madam Tapia, I have to ask you this question. We made from my parliamentary group two requests for information to your department, on the commercial relations between Tekniker and Vicomtech, foundations in which the Basque government participates and the commercial Davoral Health SL, company navarra, which was a fiasco... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... on the commercial relations between Tekniker and Vicomtech, foundations in which the Basque Government participates, and the merchant Davoral Salud SL, a Navarra company that was an economic fiasco, with judgments declaring the competition of creditors guilty and with serious political consequences in the Navarro Government and an impressive economic hole. Tekniker and Vicomtech have lost a lot of money in their relations with this failed industrial project. We asked him for that information and he didn't answer us. And I will remind you of your position on this subject. That is, in another answer you told us that the employer, where you are represented, is responsible for approving the management plan for each year and the results accounts. The employer is also informed of the general data and the quantities to be supplied by the failed projects. And you're there. That is to say, this parliamentary group received two requests for information, as I say, on Tekniker and Vicomtech's trade relations with Davalo, both written on 15 March, and the answers were absolutely insufficient, they were nothing. And the lack of, above all, the transparency required of a government, in this case, when Parliament asks it for information it must have. Both foundations have representatives of the Basque Government in their patronage, and however, the request for information provided was not responded to, without providing the required documentation. In other words, we requested copies of certain contracts of such foundations, unpaid invoices, documents that formalized services or services. That is, and the Government said that it could have access to information relating to the management of foundations, but it did not have such documentation. That, counselor, is that incredible, you're a patron and you don't have the information? Well, I demand it, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u105	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u106	Mr. Barrio, we've already talked about this, but, well, you can ask me every time you want me to answer the same thing. The two foundations are private foundations, not for profit that is true, in whose governing body it participates, in whose patronage, which is the highest governing body, the Basque Government participates. Each of them is composed of 19 employers, the Government is one of them. And you will understand, as in other companies, the relationships and agreements and the work for the sake of good corporate governance also in these private foundations is carried out. Therefore, we are not faced with an exception of any kind. And it is that the Basque Government is present, and we said it again, we participated in the preparation, in the approval of all that is the strategic plan and the annual follow-up, the annual accounts, and they are analyzed, audited, and I also realized this. But, of course, we have neither this nor any other of the thousands of contracts that private foundations make with companies in aspects of R & D & I. Neither this nor any other, since they are private foundations and we, in order to of course concretely and participate in good corporate governance, carry out our task in terms of the strategic plan, the monitoring of accounts, where they are analyzed, of course, if there are projects like this that have failed, that have had problems, those accounts are audited. And I told you last time, audited accounts with no problem in them. The two foundations have had profits every year, and the losses in these and other contracts, because they are not the only contracts that have caused losses, have been specifically provided for and well organized. I insist, audited accounts without any problem.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u108	Counselor, it's still amazing you don't have the information. Well, ask her, she's no excuse. In other words, participating in a corporate government is not synonymous with obscurantism and lack of transparency. I would have liked to know that yes, that I had asked you after the request for information and the answer, but no, you don't want to know, what you lose the money in the companies in which you participate. Well, we do, Mrs. Tapia. We are interested in knowing what the money is lost from the companies in which, in the foundations, in this case, where the Basque Government is represented. To know what has lost Tekniker more than two and a half million euros, to know what has lost Vicomtech 163,000 euros. I think it is our duty to be interested in this, Madam Counsellor, to receive the information. That is, I demand that you complete the requested information with the required information. It is the most enforceable of the rights of information to Parliament and transparency. And private, yes, of course it's private. And in these cases and in these documents, in these failed contracts, that is, with other companies of another autonomous community, because it participates in those governments, in those foundations employers, the Basque Government. And in 2019, according to Tekniker's website, 29.7 of revenues comes from the Basque Government. That is to say, there is a special link in all these issues and we need to know. And, in other words, we are talking about an issue with Davalo SL that is in a judicial process. That is, that the concepts in relation to Tekniker and Vicomtech with Davalor have to be made clear, because they also participate in judicial proceedings. So you can't come to me with stories, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u109	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u110	Mr. Barrio, it's to pretend to mix it all up and try to pour the ink out of the chipiron. See, there are two contracts with two technology centers, two private foundations that have contracted with a company that is not from the territory private contracts. That, of course, the situation of the annual accounts has been analysed in the employers' offices, it has been seen that there were these and other contracts with other companies – for which, by the way, you do not ask me – that have been failed, but in any case they are properly provided and the companies have their audited accounts. You can ask me for all the contracts, all of them, of a foundation that's public, that's Neiker. You ask me everything you want, but, of course, in no other company nor in any other private foundation can I have such contracts, neither do I have them, nor is it necessary for me to have them in order to carry out my work as a Government and as a employer in the most appropriate way possible. Therefore, a company that came to Euskadi to launch a research project, with two technological centres. Project that, as I told you, was developed, there were results and could be observed. Therefore, the work of the proper centers, the company did not pay their bills... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... project that, as I told you, was developed, there were results and could be observed. The work of the centres, therefore, is appropriate. The company didn't pay their bills. The company had a business model that failed. Well, on so many other occasions there are startups, and you, precisely the People's Party, are the most driving force behind startups. What happens because a company is failed? Well, then, it's a company that's failed and, well, a big company or a small company closes. What is the problem with this particular company? Hasn't there been any other startups in Euskadi and the world that have been failed? These technology centres have developed their task according to the contracts and the company has not paid for them. Totally positive audited accounts. Nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 15th point in the theme list: "Interregation, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, a member of the Basque Groups of Populars, a member of the Ciudadans, a chief of the Treasury and Ogas, on the 2021 Predictions of growth." Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u112	Good. Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Azpiazu, counselor, Don Pedro María, have left you practically alone, when you and I know that the other debates too, but the really important thing is this one that we are going to have you and me here now, which is about the economic situation, and see if we get, and how we are going to get out of this. There is another debate that is unfortunately taking place outside – to which I may then refer – but I believe that the important debate is indeed this: the issue of the economic situation and the issue of how this is going to affect us all, and above all what the government's intentions are to make the economic trends that exist, therefore, go in the opposite direction, and above all that we can all get out of it. A few days ago, you yourself, Mr Azpiazu, had to recognise in a well-known economic forum that you would probably review the Basque Government's own forecasts downwards. The budget that was drawn up and that you brought to this House – and that went ahead with the government's votes – was built on a series of indicators, which we already told you – this parliamentarian already told you a few times, I've counted four, but I'm still missing some – that it was built on forecasts that didn't match the forecasts set by other organizations that also analyze the economy. Basically, a budget was made by calculating a growth forecast of 8.9, then a little bit down to 8.6 in December by the Basque Government and it was that there were institutions that were already saying that at best, at best, a 5.8 was growing, that is, three points less than now – by the way, the Banco de España has just confirmed this. The economic indicators, first of all, have taken away his reason, have taken away his reason from the budget. All I do is refer to the economic indicators. I asked him several times, I told him, listen, it's that the economic indicators, I don't know, there's a huge discrepancy between what other institutions tell us and what the Basque Government tells us. It gives me the feeling, Mr Azpiazu, I told you at the time, that you are overly optimistic. Man, optimism is fine, but the problem has been that this budget and the government's economic forecasts have been built up a little, forgive me for telling you, about the milk story. I have asked him a number of questions and some questions from the end of last year until now, all in the same direction, that we should be clear, that we should be clear – it would be good if it were in this Parliament – and that we should be clear as to how he sees the economic forecasts and, above all, how we intend to deal with the situation which, in the end, affects us all. Because, let's be honest, from this we only come out with two things: vaccines, which is not that we are doing especially well, and reactivating the economy to regain employment, regain economic activity and so collect. The collection. Well, look at the collection to date – let's go, the forecasts that the government once again made about what the collection was going to be – for these dates more or less, good for last month, look, this is what you were saying, that we were going to be around here and, instead, we are here, according to the latest data. According to the latest data, the collection has fallen considerably. It is true that the triquiñuela that some governments usually use – which is not to use the data clearly, probably then to remove responsibilities – is to make forecasts of collection, perhaps, down, which is what they did last year, and then to say that we had had a remnant as if we had made a great deal of management, when in fact what happened is that they stopped executing a lot of budget items and went up a little bit the forecast of the collection that you yourselves had said, against the criteria of other institutions, that you had already said that it was going to rise a little bit at the end of the year the collection, and then they get out of the way saying that we now have one billion more to deal with the covid and the crisis situation. It's just that this is unfortunately not going to work for us from now on. The collection is low. As the trend continues – you know, in addition, you have a cabinet that is perfectly capable of calculating it – so let's continue at the end of the year about 600, or more or less the effect on the budget will be around -600 million, 600 million euros less. It gives the feeling that all that is the budget, the forecast in management, etc., trust two things, right?, that is, if it goes well, it is that we know how to manage, we take out the breast, that we manage well; and, if it goes badly, it is that it is the fault of the international context. Well, let's see if it's the international context's fault. Then, the other day, I ask you, Mr. Counsellor, Mr. Azpiazu – the other day was a month and a half ago, which is what it took them to answer me – listen, how about the volatility of the oil price? Do you believe that instability and the upward trend in oil prices will affect the Basque economy? [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... it took a while to answer me, listen, what do you think about the volatility of the oil price?, do you think that the instability and the upward trend of the oil price will affect the Basque economy? He answers, "It doesn't look like it's going to have a significant impact on the Basque economy." I ask you: "Hey, do you think this situation makes the government possibly able to rethink its economic forecasts downwards?". He answers: "I think that the forecasts included in the budgets, -8.9 you said we were going to grow and everyone is already saying that below the 6-, they are still valid", and this you tell me with the date of 9 March, which is when the answer you sent me is recorded. Well, what I want you to say is that denying reality leads us nowhere, because as you well know, in economics it is very important to play with the cards raised. Some people like to play with the cards marked and then breast-feed, but the important thing is to play with the cards on the table and let everyone know what to stick to, which is just the opposite of what he's unfortunately doing, he's doing his government. I don't know if it's because they don't listen to you, because I have very good..., I have very good personal opinion of you, and I think you do... yes, if you let them know how to do their job, but it just gives me the feeling that the problem you have is the rest of your colleagues, because the truth is that you don't understand these kinds of decisions and these kinds of situations. The budget, because it was made the usual budget, the usual budget, was taken away again, "no, they are the most social budgets". Look, it's that the competences of the autonomous communities are almost everything, it's 90% social policies, and nothing that goes up a bit, because of course, of course they are social budgets, but that's not getting us anything. It was also a budget built on the milk story. Forecast of the eight and peak percent, almost the nine of growth, when it was already being said that we did not reach the six and the Banco de España has just confirmed it. The Banco de España, which has just revised downwards, has just revised downwards the overall growth forecasts for Spain, arguing as (...) factors the price of oil, which, in your opinion, was not going to affect the economy at all. Well, now let's see what happens. I repeated it several times, they trusted everything to European money, debt and the change in the economic trend alone. If we were a company that is in economic difficulty and we went to ask a bank for credit, it is that they do not pass risk analysis, they would not have given us the credit. Moreover, if we were a company that was going to ask the Basque Government for help through Elkargi or whatever, it was that the Basque Government itself, yourself, would refuse it, because it has not presented either a restructuring, a change in fundamental economic issues, or a truly credible investment. They are entrusting everything to the European funds, and that is where you are noticed, Mr Azpiazu, which is why I tell you that I have at least faith in your conscience in the background, which is why the other day you sent a message to your partner Mr Sánchez and complained that, indeed, with the European funds, because they said nothing to them, that everything was to be done. It is that, of course, you presented a budget knowing that these parameters on which you built it were not going to be met, but you trusted in two things, well, in three things, you trusted: if something happens, we always have the debt. We have here a small remnant of the previous year, which actually comes from the lack of implementation of the items, so neither was the previous one a credible budget. And then, well, because the money that comes from Europe we blame it on things that we already have in the budget and what we save ourselves; therefore, it is not true what was said here in Parliament by you and your team, that we depend on European money, we depend on European money. And that is why I think you have been critical of Mr Sánchez and that is why I think it is very necessary, that it is very necessary that in some way the economic forecasts be reviewed and that the situation of action in the economic field be reviewed. The predictions you're running... the forecasts being handled by the Basque Government are clearly overtaken by reality. The last thing I would like to remind you of is that concerning consumer confidence, which is very low, is very low. You and I know, the rest of your government may not be very interested in this, but you and I know it. If consumer confidence is low, that's basically the perfect indicator of the perfect storm that's coming. Such low consumer confidence means that consumers do not spend, do not consume, so they do not collect, and then we have no money to implement the various budget headings. For all these reasons, Mr Azpiazu, what I put to you in this inquiry is simply one thing, simply one thing, what are the purposes of your Government, what are the purposes of your Government about the measures that are necessary to deal with the slowdown in growth or perhaps the fall of the economy that is expected for this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u113	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u114	Legebiltzarreko President andrea, Sailburuak, legebiltzarkideok, Gordillo jauna, I hope to give you satisfaction, Mr Gordillo, with your questions and your concerns, let us see if we can achieve this. As you well know, the pandemic has upset the global economic landscape and its expansion has generated a fall in GDP in 2020 that has no precedent in times of peace, this is already a fact noted by the advances published by statistical institutes and international organizations dedicated to economic analysis and forecasting. Despite this, the 2020 data have not been as negative as expected a few months ago, and I think you will also consider this issue to be a positive one. This is confirmed by the latest OECD report of this same month in March, which states that the third quarter rebound was much higher than expected and that despite the new waves of contagion, the arrival of vaccines and the fiscal and monetary drive to the economy will allow for a rapid recovery of the world economy, although there will be differences in economic areas and sectors. In similar terms, the International Monetary Fund was also expressed in its January report, in which it adjusted the forecasts for the world economy upwards. The current economic moment is highly uncertain, and this is causing the forecasts made by the main agencies to change every short time, not just those of the Government. The overall focus is on lowering the expected increase for the year 21 and raising the forecast for the year 22. By setting a couple of examples, the data from the March Consensus Forecasts place the consensus of predictions for the euro area in a four... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ...the forecast for the year 22. By setting a couple of examples, the March Consensus Forecasts data puts the euro area forecast consensus at 4.3% this year and 4.2% next year, when three months ago the average was 4.7 for this year and 3.7 for next year. The figures for Spain are currently an increase of 5.7% over the two years, when three months ago these forecasts were 6.1% this year and 5.4% next. For its part, the Monetary Fund, in the above-mentioned report, lowered a point in the forecast for the euro area for this year and raised it by half a point for next year. That is, the idea behind these changes in predictions is that part of the growth expected for this year is moved to the next one. Three months ago it was thought that the peak of growth would reach the year 2021 and now gives the impression that for both Spain and the euro area as a whole the recovery of the economy will extend almost equally between this year and next. The reason for this delay in the recovery schedule is explained by the growth figures for the fourth quarter, which, at an inter-quarterly rate, were in the modest Basque case and in the European case negative. Indeed, the Basque economy grew by only 0.5% in the fourth quarter, compared to the third. It comforts me, however, to know, Mr Gordillo, that you follow closely the work we do in my department. And believe me, we're doing it with interest, and I'd say we're doing it very well. Expectations for the first quarter of this year are not very favourable in line with what is known in the January and February MIP indicators, which are often regarded as advanced gross domestic product syndicators. However, the March MIP has been much better than the previous ones, already placing the composite index in a growth area. This indicator points to a very robust situation in European industry, but to a great deal of concern in services, which, as you know, also make up most of the added value. If a negative figure is confirmed for the first quarter of this year, the euro area would again enter into recession. But the Basque economy does not, at least in the most used definition of recession, imply two consecutive quarters with negative quarterly falls in gross domestic product. Other bodies have already published their forecasts for the Basque economy and their vision, though somewhat contradictory, is very favourable. Hispalink thus predicts for the Basque community a growth of 7% this year and 5% for the next, while BBVA reverses the rates and places 5.3 for this year and 7.5 for the next. This means that both forecasts point to a cumulative growth of 12 points, or even more, in the 21-22 period, although their distribution over time is different. In such uncertain times, looking towards the biennium can be a good idea. And everything points out that the pace of growth of our economy will be intense. In our case, as you know, revisions are carried out every quarter, once the quarterly economic accounts of Eustat are available. But I would like to take this opportunity to explain first and foremost our new macroeconomic picture for the 21-22 period. The Basque economy will grow by 6.7% this year, about two points below the previous forecast. The emergence of new waves of contagion after the summer and after Christmas has slowed the recovery started in the third quarter. In 2022 the economy will grow by 5.7%, a very robust rate still, in our opinion. By the end of the 22nd we will have far exceeded the GDP loss threshold by more than 2% by 2020. If in the previous recession we need eight years to recover pre-crisis GDP, in this case we will recover it in three years. Quarterly developments in GDP point to an annual rate in the first quarter of less than 2,5 %, which improves the fourth quarter by five points, with an inter-quarterly rate of 0.5, as does the fourth quarter. A balance between domestic demand and external demand is anticipated. Private consumption growth is not expected to equal GDP growth and families will opt for higher-precautionary savings than they had in pre-pandemic periods. Public consumption has played a decisive role in sustaining the economy as a whole, with a 4.5% increase in 2020. Gross capital formation will increase dramatically with growth rates of 8.4% this year and 6.4% next year. Today's investment favours the creation of wealth for the future. That the recovery of the Basque economy should be supported to a greater extent in investment than in consumption will facilitate a more balanced and lasting development in the coming years. The current forecast indicates a significant recovery in industry, with growth of 8.3%, a rate that has not been recorded in the last 20 years. How do you (¿?) Of the above, in terms of employment we will have 13,600 more people working this year and another 15,800 more next year. An increase of 1.5% this year and of 1.7 next year. And so the unemployment rate will be reduced to 10.1% in the year 2021 and to 9.5% in the year 2022. Mr. Gordillo, don't worry about the government's solvency. The Government's rating remains two levels higher than the sovereign's rating. And we have full confidence in the markets, and in addition you will be able to verify it soon, the values, the markets recognize us. 6% of the commercial economy will grow 7% this year. After summer and Christmas, new waves of infection have appeared, which has stopped the recovery of the third quarter. That takes away the expected growth of this year, but it's changed to 2022 growths, because that year it will grow %5,7%, and a very strong rate. According to our daily forecast, a significant excitement of industry has occurred this year, and the value is increased by 8,3%, which hasn't been registered in the last 20 years. As for the operation, according to the PR, the occupation will go up to 1,5 this year, and 1,7 next year. I mean, we're going to have 13,600 people working this year, and another 15,800 more next year. 2020th unemployment rate average of 10,5%... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... and another 15.800 next year. The rate of unemployment in 2020 was average 10,5%. The assumptions taken into account for the development of this scenario, including oil prices, Mr Gordillo, include a strong recovery of the environment of the Basque community, although the annual rates, both of the OCD and of the Eurozone and of Spain, will still be negative in the first quarter of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u115	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, Mr. Azpiazu, you do not satisfy me neither my questions nor my concerns. Neither the OECD nor the IMF – you know it perfectly well, don't try to confuse us – give data broken down by region. They didn't. You have cited general data. Of course, he's just quoting general data. You just checked down to 6.7%. At 6,7 %. I've been telling you since the end of last year that 8.9 seemed excessive to me. Well, I'm right, how it's usually done, by the way, isn't it? 6,7 %. And the Hispalink, which you mentioned, is that it gives a growth forecast of 5%, not 6.7. It gives me the feeling that what you're doing is trying to sweeten one thing, one news, one bad news and one that's tremendous, you're trying to sweeten it, and what you're trying to do is to slowly go down the growth rate, until we get to what's real, which is 5%. Look, Mr. Counsellor, you have not yet told me what you think, or how your government intends to respond to the terrible challenges we face, which are very serious, and which are above all very important. We are a loyal opposition; we have always been a loyal opposition. We have gone when the Government has called us, and we have tabled a lot of amendments aimed, above all, at carrying out projects and strategic actions that serve to catch up, or that serve to revive the economy. The debt should not be to pay the current expenditure; you know this. This you know. The debt is about to take a step back, take a wheelbarrow, and then move on. It's just that, so you're telling me – besides – that the rating is very good in Euskadi and so, implicitly, what you're trying to recognize is that soon you'll come to tell us that we're going to ask for a little bit more debt because it doesn't come to you. It's just that you look all over it, Mr. Azpiazu. Look, we're asking the government, in a situation like this, the normal thing, for starters, the normal thing would be for you to be here, next to the lehendakari. That would be normal, but, well, it's an internal decision. Because what you're doing is very important. It's just that your work is very important and that of your department, that of your counselor. It's very important. It's just that it's the most important one right now. We, there, what we would have to have is a meeting, you would have to have a weekly meeting with all the economic spokesmen, in which we would be aware of the actions that will be carried out. Because, of course, what you can't do is have a coalition government, with an absolute majority, that they bring here like a roller, and then they ask the opposition: "Hala, unconditional adherence and without limits." Listen, and then, on top of that, if you make amendments, on top of that, it turns out we're disloyal. Look, we insist on what Mr Iturgaiz said to Mr Urkullu this morning: we must identify the non-strategic items of the budgets and return them to the productive sector, in order to improve economic activity. The vaccination strategy needs to be improved; that's not your department's, but it's very important. And, above all, legal certainty. And on this I'd like to stop a little bit. You know that in economics – I explain this even in the classes of constitutional law – legal certainty is fundamental; it is absolutely fundamental for a genuine rule of law to exist, and above all for the economy to function. It's absolutely fundamental. And what's not a receipt is that one day the government calls us, and tells us that "well, that's thinking," that "maybe it makes an anti-pandemic law," that "you don't know," that "in the end," that "it doesn't have anything written," how about... And now we have to find out, while you and I are here debating issues, before an audience that is already a little tired, and sometimes it seems that even boring, there is a press conference out there to present a proposal for anti-pandemic law to jump, to skip parliamentary mechanisms, and the security and procedure established by the Constitution, the Statute and our Rules of Procedure. Why submit a bill instead of a bill? Joe, to skip the COJUA, to skip all the mandatory reports, and to get out of the public debate and transfer responsibility to Parliament. Why do you want to make a law of these antipandemics? You're trying to put a name that's attractive, but what are you trying to do? What they're trying to do is jump to the bullring, jump to the bullring absolutely all the parliamentary procedures. This is no longer filibusterism; this is a fraud in every rule. It's a full-fledged fraud, which is going to be disguised as the absolute majority you have, but it's going to remain a fraud. It is a law with many edges, because it will affect fundamental rights. And when the essential content of fundamental rights is affected, organic laws must be used. And besides all that, you have to be very careful. This is the law, it is not the law of the pataleta, as my colleague Carlos Iturgaiz said in his day, this is the law of the vengeance of Mr Urkullu in front of the judges, because, and this they have had to advise him well, they have told him that clearly, that if we pass a law, the judges of the TSJ, the High Court of Justice, will not be able to annul the measures. But of course, this law of revenge, as is well known, will end up in the Constitutional Court. And it will be bad for everyone, because we will have to go back to the beginning again, and we will have made no progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u117	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Your word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u118	I'm not going to change the subject for you, Mr. Gordillo. I'm going to talk about economy and public accounts. Look, you say the good forecast figure is 5%. If someone tells you it's gonna be the 4, it's gonna look like that's the good one. Which means, you think the good one's the worst. But well, believe me, I think we are in a position to make forecasts, in better conditions for the Basque economy than others. Well, I told him we were going to check the numbers a week ago. And, indeed, here we are, reviewing these figures. It's... it's... it's... it's-- it's--it's--it's--it's--it's--it's--it's--it's--it's--it's--it's--it's--it's--it's--it's--it's--it's--it's--it's--it's--it's--it's--it's--it's--it's--it's--it's-- [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... than others. Well, I told him that we were going to review the figures a week ago and, indeed, here we are reviewing these figures. Look, I'd paraphrase Keynes by addressing Hayek in one of the many controversies they had, and in which he said, listen, look, I'll look when circumstances change, and you? I believe that reality is to analyze it, to follow it and then to adapt the forecasts to this reality. We don't have a problem with that. But when we give the data that we give is why we understand that we must give at that moment with the information that we have that data, we are not manipulating the data, we are analyzing the data, and at every moment and depending on the context in which we find ourselves. Our accounts presented before this pandemic an enviable solidity, with the lowest indebtedness throughout the Spanish state, and we had a surplus since the year 17. And the pandemic caught us, fortunately, with healthy accounts that have been able to respond to the tensions generated this past year. As chairman of the Finance Committee of this House, you are well aware that we are presenting a draft budget of EUR 12,440 million, with an increase of more than EUR 700 million to be distributed among the departments, an increase of 7.1, with an investment of EUR 955 million, which meant an increase of 6.4, with an investment in R & D+I of EUR 536 million, an increase of 9.7%. These are facts, they are data, they are political, they are actions, precisely, to get out of this situation. I have pointed out on many occasions that the Government would, if necessary, make maximum use of its borrowing capacity to cope with a few key years of economic recovery. In fact, we will soon be entering the market with a sustainable bond issue of EUR 1 billion, which will enable the Government to strengthen its solid financial situation and to have more resources for the future. Fortunately, the 2020 collection has not fallen as much as we initially expected, although some seem to have preferred a lower collection, not us. And our remnants, in that sense, have been increased by EUR 1 billion. And that is not a coincidence, but a voluntary decision by the Government to strengthen the capacity to act by borrowing more than what is strictly necessary to cover the deficit. We wanted to have a much stronger financial situation in case we have to act more forcefully; because, we have said, we will not stop acting if we understand that we have to. A significant part of these remnants were realized, for example, in the framework of initiatives envisaged in the priority areas of action of EUR 180 million. I tell you more, our 2020 deficit is expected to close by around 1.1%. Along with this, we will manage about 240 million so that we can give direct aid to the sectors most affected by the pandemic, and we are already designing the most agile formula to do so as soon as possible. The Budget Act provides for the additionality of the European funds Next Generation, both REACT and recovery and resilience mechanism, and when they arrive we will be able to manage them efficiently, as we have designed our own Euskadi Next plan. We have identified the strategic areas of this country and have worked intensively with other Basque institutions and with the economic and social fabric. Our route is well marked and with the focus on transformation and economic reconstruction. At the moment when we have the final fixed economic photo, the Basque Government will take the investment decisions it deems necessary also to continue moving towards reconstruction and recovery. Investments that will allow us to increase our potential GDP, while addressing the challenges of the energy-ecological transition and digitalisation, which are key to the future. To conclude and sum up, Mr Gordillo, we do not foresee a period of recession for the Basque economy, although it could be in the case of the euro area, as I have said before, and in some important countries of the euro area as well. The slowdown referred to in your question will occur to a greater or lesser extent as a result of new strains of the virus (...), you have also pointed this out. The arrival of vaccines and their efficiency against new mutations are a key to achieving a rapid recovery of the economy this year and next. We are confident that this will still be possible and that economic data will be positive from April, one year after the arrival of the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u119	Thank you, Mr. Subaz. The 16th point in the theme list: "To ask a question, about the verdict of a student who condemned José Manuel Gilegas to pay a scholarship to the Esquire School of the Ciudadans to the head of the Education Department, in order to learn in the model A." Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Counsellor. In Euskadi we have a problem, which is that thousands of Basque families cannot school their children in the majority language of all Basques. And I say they can't, it's not that they don't want to, as you have ever maintained; they can't. Last Tuesday 16 the press published a judgment of the Court of Litigation-Administrative Vitoria-Gasteiz which is nothing but a symptom of this very serious problem, which at some point will have to be addressed and corrected. According to that judgement, his Department was ordered to pay a school transport grant to a child who was required to enrol in a concerted centre as the only way to study in Model A. And I am obliged to ask you the question of what you think of this sentence, how you value it, what you intend to do, what measures you will take or have already taken to ensure that this right will be fulfilled and that any Basque family that wants to educate their child in model A can do so? What steps will you take to ensure that this never happens again with any children in Euskadi? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u121	Thank you, Mr. Gil. To answer, Mr. Bilartz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u122	Mr. President of the Parliament, chiefs, members of the legislature, good days. Gil jauna, the judgment you cite falls within the interpretation of the literality of the requirements for entitlement to a scholarship in the order of December 18, which called for individualized school transport assignments, and not within the framework of the freedom of choice of families and educational models. The basic frame of reference of this order was Decree 69/2015 of 19 May on school transport, and article 5 regulates the requirements of the right to it. The education administration interpreted that the conditions were not met or that the article was not fulfilled... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... fifth, the rights to the same were regulated. The Education Administration interpreted that the conditions were not met or that the article was not met, and the applicant considered that it was. The right to receive a scholarship has now been reduced. The Department has already taken steps to enforce the judgement, proceed to estimate the administrative appeal and make the payment as soon as possible. I must also inform you that on December 4, 2019, Decree 186/2019 was published, amending the Decree on school transport. This decree modified the article subject to discrepancy in a more precise way. The aim is precisely to avoid these interpretations different from the parties.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u123	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u124	I understand, Mr. Counsellor, that you want to limit the scope of this sentence simply to a transport issue or a scholarship issue. But the reality is that the problem he refers to is much deeper and goes much further. This sentence does nothing more than put on the table a problem that has been suffering many Basque families for years and for which I have already addressed you at the control plenary on 19 February this year. That day, you ended this intervention by telling me, "Don't you think we have enough trouble looking for them where there are none?" This question I believe is answered alone today, because it is obvious, that manoeuvre is evident. It's not that there is no problem, it's that you don't want to see it because it doesn't interest you, because it doesn't interest you the problems that a high percentage of Basque families have for something as elementary as that their children can study in the majority language of all Basques. In that sense, you, I remind you, are the adviser to all Basques, not just nationalists, not just Basques, all Basques, and you should be fulfilling that obligation to guarantee that right for all children. And, look, the sentence says it very clearly: "The absolute cynicism is evident...", it is literal, "...of the public administration...", and it refers to its particular department, "...and, therefore, article 14 of the Constitution, in view of the discrimination of the child in access to allowances for school transport and as a result of the choice of his parents of the educational model A, that the administration, without trying to seek any solution, said that it is not possible to enrol the child in the linguistic model intended by the parents, because it is not possible, nor viable, the formation of a group...". That was his argument, and it's an argument they've been repeating for a long time. I continue with the ruling, "...as if the Administration had to look for some sort of profitability or cost-benefit analysis in an area that directly affects a fundamental right, such as the right to education, article 27 of the Spanish Constitution." And you in that speech told me that you did agree that all the children of Euskadi had the right to study in the language of all Basques. Then, Mr. Counsellor, I urge you once again to take steps to guarantee this right and, consequently, to implement model A in all public schools in Euskadi in the next course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u125	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Mr. Bilar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u126	As I have indicated, there is no debate about the freedom of choice and the language models of our system. This case is timely and refers exclusively to the granting of a school transport grant. Moreover, in this particular case, the will of the family was guaranteed when choosing the educational model, even outside the period of ordinary schooling. His desire was model A schooling and he did so. This is not a model issue. The department made efforts to authorize enrolment in the family-elected concerted school, and, as I indicated on 19 February, this is a right that assists families and is a right that families exercise in a conscious and responsible manner. Families freely choose the model they consider most appropriate for their children. And I can tell you, with the provisional enrolment data, that model A has been chosen by 3.8% of families in the Gipuzkoa Historical Territory. And as I've moved you recently, I insist on proposing a change of attitude. I insist on proposing to you the advisability of adapting your speech to the free and real will of Basque families, rather than continuing to try to show that this freedom of choice does not exist, rather than questioning a right that has been exercised in freedom for 28 years. And I also insist on stressing, and this is very important, Mr Gil, that all pedagogical and professional evidences recommend these educational models. Families choose them and institutions endorse them. This Parliament supports them in a majority, almost complete. We will continue to adapt our educational offer responsibly to the demands of our educational community, our society and its socio-linguistic reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u127	Thank you, Mr. Bilartz. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interrelation, made by Erasitz de Egililaz, members of the Rammos EH Collectorda, to the planetal Plant, Housing, and Commander of the Transport Division, concerning the difficulties and difficulties which young men have access to decent housing." Ms. Saez de Egilaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u128	Congressman, good day. Once upon a time there was a generation that did not offer much, a house to live, a house to live in a decent manner for all people, just asking them to commit formal rights. A whole generation that wanted and wanted the ability to invent and live their own stories. For we are speaking of living with dignity this evening, of the difficulties and difficulties which young men have in our entrance to a house to live. All this difficulty is, because the lives of a great part of the Araba, Biscaia, and the Gipuian population are disturbed by their projects and cannot be carried on by our projects in our daily life. I told you the other day that I have a lot of information about current rents, and I'm still looking for homes, but this is not my particular situation. Thousands of houses without people and a crowd without houses. We're facing an emergency for housing. In the younger case, it is a still more serious situation, because the giving of the younger has become almost impossible. Only 36% of the young intermediates between 18 and 34 years of age are given. I mean, if we were 22 members of our childhood class, there are only eight of them given by today. And that's not the data that's caused by the pandemonies. It's 2019 years of data. [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...if you did, there are only eight of them left to-day. And that's not the data that's caused by the pandemonies. It's 2019 years of data. And even then we woke up with very little facts, even then we people woke up with dreadful chronicles. We don't have a place, and as the years go by, we don't have an answer. It's the only chance we've got to live under parent control, pay abuse rents, or mortgage them for the rest of our lives. And Donostia is a pure example, for instance. Moments of tourists everywhere. The speculations which we have learned in it are daily spent with the weights of students we know very well, and the prices of rents are very high, which cannot be paid. We wonder where we're going to live. Because the fundamental right has become the source of business, and which ought to be the right of all, because it is only the luxury of a few. The Prefect has also installed himself in ours. And this time that we are in danger of crocering, the young have been condemned to live in the presbytery. We're far from what they promised us this time. Learning hasn't brought a job and progressing at age didn't bring an opportunity of giving birth. The highest unemployment rates, the lowest conditions of work, and no place to live. You tell us that housing is a basic right, but this is only one story, one more story in the country of Never Ever. But, counselor, we young women, we're not like Peter Pan and we're growing and growing. We are not girls who can keep watching life go by, without solutions or a decent home to live in. The block is the only thing we're living in. Our lives are locked down every moment. Because thinking of the future is very difficult, because we lack certainty, and are not the choice of all of us to leap into these conditions. And because even in the case of those who are present there is a terrible fear, because they are troubled and disguised because they abound. And we see very clearly that the housing policies proposed by this Government are not enough. If they were, all of us would have a home and be emancipated. Instead, we kill ourselves to look for houses that are a bodrio, a real bodrio, and we have to negotiate with our housekeepers up to the last euro of the rent, because they have wide sleeves to be able to do what gives them the real will. And we cannot depend on the private interests and arbitrary caprices of some. We can't allow rent from one month to another, regardless of our conditions of life. Every time we're looking for weights to be subject to a large agent, it's not fair to record our everyday rentals. Four out of ten of the young make too much economic effort, because they're going to take 40% of their income. And besides, we know that Precinct is not only capable of young men. We know, moreover, that these wretched conditions of life have greatly extended the Precinct, and have extended it even in time and age. So we don't just have the housing problems. Even those who go forward at age know that they have not done this right. We know also that there are programmes, precise and different helps, which have also been carried on for the purpose of this government. We're conscious that housing policy exists, and that there are certain accounts that have been directed to young people. Nevertheless, from the anxiety of the situation, which we hear in the street, we believe, from what we see in the day, that we must adapt and improve our programmes to the young, from our group. And you have to take special measures, too. It's really a distraction, but it's an important case, if our axis is to be the axis in our pretty ones. We're clear that we should be discussing the institution, because it's the decision of our lives. And that is why we have to guarantee the basic elements. Trapped, regulated, and provided with resources. And that must be derived from public institutions. We've asked a very clear question this evening. What measures will a young man take to overcome the problems and difficulties that we have access to a decent apartment or before them? I mean, does it really believe that the measures which this government has hitherto applied will suffice if the performance of the younger is one of the principal ends of public policy? We have to ask ourselves where we are and where we're going. As a matter of fact, we must always make this way with people and people. That's why the kids left us an errand. In the beauties of this government, we do not meet with answers to merit our lives. Young friends, for instance, hardly contribute to the increase and increase of the fertility rate, because the amount of help which are paid is mostly too small, and it is not possible for the young man to appear as a "sterella" or a star program that will fix the young man. We don't believe it because data tells us the opposite. In 2019, 2,500 young men were designed to benefit from this government. And only 46 succeeded in benefiting this program. In 2020, he went up to 1.620 to the amount of support he'd given, but this is still a very poor piece of data. It is very rare that the object which we plan is, because it is imperfect, because its conditions are restrictive, and the natural problems we give young people are not only solved by a program. We need special measures, which will be adapted to our conditions, and penetrate into that right which we have for our housing. Being a house is not a caprice, it is not a caprice. We just didn't think of it. To give up our lives is a necessary element to decide our future. And we need tools for that. We're in need of them. Now, in what is constantly conditioned by our daily life, where the chances are reduced or destroyed in the most part of our lives, the penetrating into our rights, and the development of them, is extremely important, more than ever. We want to put our needs and our interests in the first row. For there is not enough of this age in which young Basques are born, or of the age they have in their minds. In fact, according to some data published in 2017, the young people thought it was 24 years old to give birth to the ideal age. So, for us... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... for according to some facts published in 2017, the young men thought it twenty-four years to give birth to the ideal age. So we defend ourselves that this interest is to mark our policy. And he's a young face, too, with anxiety and youthful face. I said the same in my speech two weeks ago, but we must say more than ever because it's happening more than ever. For we, yes, have understood something and everything is going on in the street, except for other people's problems. And 40% of young people have had symptoms of depression lately-that is, almost half the young. And depression is not the result of chance, it is not only the result of the general fatigue which this crisis has produced, it is not only responsible for depression. The pretty ones who are encouraged have a chance to ensure the welfare of the young, they have that capacity. Therefore we have only two choices left for us; one, the giving, and the body of young men, may be put into action by the policy which necessity and interest are placed in the centre; or else, on the contrary, you may turn back to the majority of young men, and resume the policy of saving the state. Here's two picks, here's two models. And simply because we were once, and were present today, we would not abandon our lives to any one else, and wish to be the leading men of our story. We want to build our own relativity for us and us. And if it be so and not, some day it will come into the gourd of this government, and come out everywhere, if it be so, into the lake itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Mr. Arriola is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u130	Thank you, Madam President, Mrs Saez de Egilaz, just a month ago I came to this House to answer a question you asked about the suitability and results of the Gaztelagun programme, and today with some change in wording I am asked about the difficulties of young people in accessing affordable housing. This is a matter that I can assure you I am concerned and concerned about and to which we are paying important attention. The average age of emancipation of young people in Euskadi is currently 30 years old, being the highest in Europe. Meanwhile, the age (...) for Basque youth to emancipate is 24 years, which means that young people emancipate, on average, six years later than they would like. It is clear that a wide range of factors contribute to this, including the lack of access to housing and the shortage of supply, but also prior to, precariousness and job instability and high levels of unemployment. The solutions must therefore be worked out from the point of view of transversality, and it is clear to me that, like us, both the Department of Labour and Employment in the workplace and the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy, with the Basque Youth Bill, are there. Access to affordable housing is one of the most demanding issues of our society and the covid and its economic and social consequences will only increase this need, especially in the most disadvantaged social strata, including many young people. Therefore, our strategy is focused on articulating sustained policies over time that allow us to move forward in order to have a powerful public park of protected housing. But let's face it, you are interested in the measures that we are going to take to promote access to housing for young people, and let me - something you have mentioned here too - tell you what we are already doing, because being aware of the problem we have already developed a series of specific measures aimed precisely at encouraging young people's access to housing. The first of the measures that our department has put in place has been cited by you, is Gaztelagun. As I explained in my previous appearance, this program was born in 2019 with the intention of supporting youth emancipation through financial benefits for the payment of rent. It was not a proposal developed at the request of any social or political group, but an initiative that arose within the department itself, because we understood that a large part of youth was often left out of access to the social rental system because of having a job and exceeding a minimum income level or not having family burdens. To give an alternative to this situation, helping young people to undertake an autonomous life project with specific benefits for three consecutive years, was the origin of Gaztelagun. In just two years he has already helped more than 2,300 young people who also have other tools to access a home, as I will explain later. As you know, and I have explained on more than one occasion in this forum, our department stands out for carrying out ongoing evaluation processes of ongoing programs. Gaztelagun has been one of those programmes evaluated, and as a result, it adjusted its requirements in its first year of life by substantially improving its results. At a particularly difficult juncture, improvements in Gaztelagun have managed to increase the number of beneficiaries by 127% during 2020, a trend that continues to rise. On the other hand, I can announce that we will shortly adopt an order of implementing financial measures for this year, which among other issues will increase the maximum price of housing income in all its sections, reaching 775 euros in the three capitals, Bilbao, Donostia-San Sebastián... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... the maximum price of housing income in all its sections, reaching 775 euros in the three capitals, Bilbao, Donostia-San Sebastián and Vitoria-Gasteiz, 750 in the metropolitan areas of Bilbao and Donostia-San Sebastián and 675 in the rest of the municipalities. I am commenting here because I know that you are concerned about the maximum rents of the homes admitted to the Gaztelagun program. Some amounts, Mrs Saez de Egilaz, which are not randomly chosen, are referred to the statistics of the rental market. A tool that provides us with the real prices of existing leases in each municipality. The last EMA established average contracts of 880 euros in Donostia-San Sebastián, 742 in Bilbao and 612 in Vitoria-Gasteiz. Obviously, there are areas that are above these stockings and others that are below, this happens everywhere, also in DonostiaSan Sebastián, which, by the way, you told me that there were no homes that could access the Gaztelagun program, and we have so far granted more than 200 aid in Donostia- San Sebastián precisely. Nor is the amount of aid set out a casual amount, as you are well aware, the maximum amount coincides with that for the supplementary housing benefit and the economic housing benefit, EUR 250 per month. In other words, it is consistent with the rest of the support provided by the Basque Government for the payment of housing rents. And it seems logical that this is the case, that a young person may have equal but no greater help than those received by persons with the subjective right to recognized housing. Another thing is the requirement of maximum income for access to these aids. And here positive discrimination in favour of young people, young people, is meridian. Meridiana to such an extent that to access the subjective duty the maximum income per member is 9,000, and in Gaztelagun is 18,000; double. With two members right subjective 12,000, Gaztelagun 24,000; double. With three or more members, maximum income of subjective duty 15,000, Gaztelagun 28,000; almost double. The second measure we are promoting is the construction of state-of-the-art accommodation, a formula specially designed to promote youth emancipation. And this is so because of its characteristics, since these are floors designed for small living units, and because of its rotating character, as it allows a maximum rent of five years. The purpose is for young people to be able to start their own life project there and to find at this time another more stable home to live, either on property or on rent; so that the apartment that they have left free can be occupied by other young people who are in a situation similar to those who had access to the same accommodation in their day. In Euskadi the program of ADAS has today with 1,622 accommodations; one part already in use, 628, and others at different stages of execution or project. But in order to make further progress in this line of work, we need the involvement of the municipalities and their collaboration, especially through the transfer of municipal land. The third of the measures we have developed is of a general nature but directly affects the youth group. This is the establishment of quotas in the access to the public rental park housing. Since 2019 the young people have reserved a preferential quota of up to 40% of the new promotions and second auctions of the rental park of the Basque Government. Quotas determined in the order of commencement of the award processes, taking into account the percentage of each group representing the total number of persons or living units registered in the register of applicants for housing of the municipality or functional area in which the promotion is located. As you see, youth is one of the collectives in which we are focusing and intensifying our actions, because we are aware of the added difficulties they have to be able to emancipate themselves. But, as I have already pointed out at the beginning of my speech, these kinds of initiatives must be framed in a housing policy that combines different actions: the promotion of new building and the acquisition of empty housing, a comprehensive system of economic benefits and the elaboration of rules that encourage the rental of the empty housing stock and penalize the opposite, even reaching measures such as forced rental, expropriation (...) and, ultimately, the expropriation of dwellings that do not fulfil their social function repeatedly. All of this by acting on supply and demand with serious, coherent and sustainable policies.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u131	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Ms. Saez de Egilaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u132	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Well, I understand the coherence they're carrying in housing policies, I understand everything, I also understand the data, I've studied them a little. And I can understand where you're going. I also know the characteristics of Gaztelagun, and I think they have a lot of room for improvement. And providing housing can become a good option, but we know perfectly well that at the moment, and as I said before, if precariousness is so wide and we remain precarious when we are even thirty-five years old because providing housing, even if you are a concrete moment of your life in those homes, then we also need other concrete policies or other concrete housing approaches to be able to emancipate ourselves in that sense. Like I said, we're talking about something basic today. We've brought a basic issue to this point today. Because, as we say, we talk about many lives, because it's not caprice... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... We've brought a basic issue to this point today. Because, as we say, we talk about many lives, because it is not a caprice, and because we are talking about a real problem. And besides, because it's a problem that's too long for time, we know that the chorus doesn't help. But precise answers, and especially concrete policy and efficiency, may help to change our lives at once, and not to suffer the necessity and uneasiness which we now see at present. You see, this subject has not been us who have set it on the table; it has been their government, their policy, their policy, because there have been no efficiency in the beautiful housing, and you have been the ones who have placed the first line of politics in the need of giving birth to the impatience of young men. And today I bring us a banner, so that then you don't say anything about me. Today I come with a graphic, serious, like a good lady parliamentarian, like all of you. And I'll get you a chart. And in this graphic, it's plain that people make a rating of the Red-Ming-Modical responses, and that's the last of the housing. Last one. Besides, if we see the age of age, we see that the young are the furrows of error. So, well, we're looking at the worst rating, among the young, with the housing in this case, and this is not a surprise. We see it's not a surprise, at least because it doesn't surprise us, because it's a basic matter of life. And if this is not an answer to this, there are some who are not glad and ashamed of the business which they are doing here. For us, there are options, and we're talking about political will. Who's the first line here? Is the first line for the young people, or is it for the vultures? For the kids or the banks? For those who want to speculate on the young or their own owners? Seeing who you put the red carpet on, we know very little where the politics of this government will go. And we demand more efficiency, more effort, and, above all, more speed. Yesterday we also learned that Holland will also limit rents. As I said here, we lost a chance to do it legally because they can be limited. And besides, in the actual reality of today, it's necessary. Oh, you can't wait in that sense anymore. You said no, too, because Madrid was coming. Now Madrid doesn't know what's coming, when it's coming. We demand, then, that we also work in the same terms, and, for once, improve the data of these young men. But above all, to give real alternatives, to lead our lives forward in a decent way. And above all, our decision of life to be young. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u134	Thank you, President. Mrs Saez de Egilaz, you may be more or less in agreement with the measures we are taking, but what you cannot deny is that young people are a collective of preferential care for this government in the area of housing. Gaztelagun is a pioneering program. A help that also provides stability and security to those who receive it. There is no such benefit in Spain that gives young people the possibility to supplement the payment of their rent for three consecutive years. There isn't. There are other programmes, they exist, but they are closed calls, with limited budgets, that do not reach all those who meet the theoretical conditions to access these aids. We have an open and continuous call, so that no young person has to compete with another because, in our opinion, that would not be a help; it would rather be a lottery. In addition, Gaztelagun has achieved a multiplier effect in Euskadi. Since its launch, almost twenty Basque municipalities have developed their own aid for youth emancipation. And all, casually, with the same maximum amount, of 250 euros per month, which appear in Gaztelagun. You always make reference to the fact that maximum eligible income within the program is very low. I have already explained to you that they are referring to the EMA, that we will soon increase them, and that, apart from adjusting them and doing so, they are producing results because there is a lot of aid granted in stressed areas such as Donosti, as I have said. The report itself "Youth, emancipation and housing needs in Euskadi 2019", referred to in its inquiry, points out that the majority of young people who live on rent pay rents ranging from €451 to €750 per month. But we all know that the fundamental problem is not so much that there is more or less rental housing at that price, which is. The real problem is that there are very few rental offers in Euskadi: only 13.3% of the total number of main dwellings. The question is: What can we do to increase this supply? And how do we make those rentals affordable? For housing policies to be effective, they need to be comprehensive, coherent, and implemented over a long period of time. We must act simultaneously on the supply and demand of housing, and combine measures of promotion and encouragement with other restrictive ones, and that is where we stand. Through the new building and the capture of empty housing, in Euskadi we already have a public park of almost 26,000 houses, of which 15,000 are managed by the Basque Government itself. By the end of 2021 we wanted to reach the 7,200 houses captured through... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... are managed by the Basque Government itself. By the end of 2021 we wanted to reach the 7,200 houses captured through Bizigune, to this will help us the entry into force of the Decree of Uninhabited Housing, previewed by the middle of this year, that previews the penalization of the empty houses with an economic canon. In addition, we have a system of economic housing benefits for the payment of rent, from which more than 30,000 families in Euskadi benefit each month, and we want those rental benefits to be updated in the year 22. We will also upgrade to the Gaztelagun structural programme category, which has so far been a three-year temporary pilot programme. From 2022 it will be a permanent subsidy line, linked consistently to the set of rental benefits. And we have proposed a tax reform that involves changes in the IRPF for income below those set out in the benchmarks and penalties for those who exceed it. And in the case of tenants, intensify deductions for various groups, such as young people and large families. Euskadi has a social housing coverage that is not comparable in the rest of Spain. We have a long way to go, yes, but believe me that there are no miraculous recipes or effects without sustained effort and consistent work on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u135	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. The 18th point in the subject list: "The question is, that Carmelus Barroja, the member of the Basque Popular-Cyan team, made for the planetion, Housing and the head of the carriers, the high-speed train is to come to the Euskio Barroja, about re-establishment of the work." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u136	Yeah. Thank you very much, President. Good morning, again, to all, to counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Well, Mr. Arriola, we've had some bad news these days. What happens to the high-speed train would be our question. You are from the Basque Socialist Party and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, you belong to a government where the PNV is a preferred partner of Mr Sánchez, Mr Ábalos, Minister of Transport and yet we are seeing a sad moment of paralysis in relation to our main railway infrastructure in the future. Media have even edited as "desperate delay in VAD". High speed, Mr Arriola, is and will be essential in the economic recovery of Euskadi, an economic recovery that will have to come after the pandemic. We are also faced with significant difficulties in this regard, in the face of other autonomous communities that are already developing it, are developing it and will develop it long before we do. And the Ministry of Transport seems to be dedicated to making the administrative process of the work even more complex. In that regard, what non-compliances this situation responds to. You have said that the Basque Greek "y" project will now end at the end of 2026 or early 27, i.e. three years late. He also said that the integration of Vitoria-Gasteiz and Bilbao will be even later. That is to say, major delay, major breaches, Mr Arriola, what are the real reasons for the postponement of 2027 from the arrival of the high-speed train to Euskadi. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u137	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u138	Thank you, Madam President. As you said I said, the Ministry of Transport places on the horizon of 2026-27 the completion of the works of the high-speed train in Euskadi. And this horizon does not include the integration of the cities of Bilbao to Vitoria-Gasteiz, which are currently in the process of informational study and the processing of environmental reports. As you know, the Basque Greek "y" project is very complex both in its administrative processing and in the management of the works. And he has had to overcome many especially difficult moments and situations from the beginning, among them, I remind him of the threat of ETA and a deep economic crisis. In addition, the processing of informational studies and environmental authorizations of all types and administrative competence, the management of necessary expropriations and the solutions for the deposit of surplus land generated by the works have also contributed to extending the execution times. To this day, taking into account the state of the situation of each of the stages, the works in progress and the outstanding performances, the temporary scenario foreseen beyond the wishes, is a realistic estimate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u139	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Mr. Barrio.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u140	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Arriola. Good. Precisely that, the threat of ETA that we well know should serve us, once defeated the band, to acquit for its completion. That's pretty clear. And to have put all the efforts that were being planned. These infrastructures are also complex in other parts of Spain and they are being done, and of the world, and they are being done, and they have been finished and started much earlier their planning than ours. Why is it so non-compliance? Because it's part of the administration's non-compliances. There, the schedule was presented in June 2017. In 2018 there was a positive environmental impact statement. In 2019 for the final approval of the study of the arrival of the high speed train to Vitoria. By 2020, constructive studies were drafted and cited immediately, that in the schedule. By the end of 2020, construction and financing began in 2023. There was a government that was defending him. But, well, everything changed in 2018. And the only step that has been taken is to make public the first informative study. I mean, it's all non-compliance, it's all slow, it's all delay. And elsewhere it hasn't, elsewhere it's worked. Moreover, in that first informative study that the allegations have been submitted, they have not yet been answered. Don't you? Moreover, that, the counselor doubts the necessity of the burial, or doubts the necessity of the burial surely, to see if it will be done without date. In other words, Burgos-Vitoria is also delayed, Pamplona has not been spoken to again without integration society in Bilbao. And high speed developing in other parts of Spain. 30 years ago, on these dates, the AVE Madrid-Sevilla was inaugurated. 30 years ago. And so we are. It's bad news you give us, Mr. Arriola, it seems to be lacking conviction. Thank you very much. [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... for these dates that was inaugurated the AVE Madrid-Sevilla, 30 years ago, and so we are. It's bad news you give us, Mrs. Arriola. Looks like there's a lack of conviction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u141	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Arriola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Everyone is heir to what he is. And, indeed, we can appreciate how the investment in the high-speed train has evolved in recent years. And we see when it has been done, when it has been reversed and when it has stopped investing. And when the investment has fallen sharply, it is precisely in the years of popular government. I mean, Mr. Carmelo Barrio, don't come here and teach us lessons from nothing, nothing. Because this is obvious and available to anyone who wants to see it. The situation we have today is that in the Gipuzcoan branch, which is developing our department, all sections are finished except for the Hernani-Astigarraga and those corresponding to the Astigarraga toll station and the Ezkio and Atotxa stations at different stages of execution. As for the branches of Álava and Bizkaia, which runs directly Adif, progress continues. Eleven of the 19 sections are already completed, seven are in different stages of implementation and one is pending approval of a modified project. The forecast is that the railway platform in all of them is completed by 2024 and that then progress is made on the installations, tracks, electrification of the route, security system, etc. On the other hand, the points of greatest complexity, as you know, are found in the accesses and stations of Vitoria-Gasteiz and Bilbao and their respective urban integrations in the phase of information study and environmental processing. Our intention is to be able to participate in the execution by means of management orders in the sections of access to both capitals. Since assuming responsibility for transportation, I have maintained continuous contact with the ministry. And the result of these talks is the impetus given to the inter-institutional commission of the high-speed train for its entry into Bilbao. In it we have agreed to establish a working group that will agree on the necessary urban solutions and funding mechanisms. And we have set out for June with the aim of continuing to take further steps. And in this same line I also hope that the ministry will shortly convene society for the railway integration of Vitoria-Gasteiz. This is the situation. And you can make all the blame you want, but turn to yourself, to the People's Party government, because if the situation we have is one that comes primarily from the lack of investment, from the stupendous fall of investment, between the 13th and 18th years. Investment that is recovering from the 18th, as you have observed in the chart. It is up to us to work and we will continue to work, have no doubt, with all responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-03-26.u143	Thank you, Mr. Arriola. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at one o'clock in the afternoon and forty-five.
