ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u0	Good morning, everyone. I'll start the entire Union. I remember the parliamentary Estatiliz Larrateu, the voter of his team. First point in theme list: "The Bill of Confederation of the Committee of Incomprehensibility, placed on the state of the Euscal Court of Peoples. A controversy and a final resolution concerning the Constitution, and, if so, to appoint the members of that court. Discipline and final resolution. Do any members of the board want to vote for the judgment or against it? No? Well, we'll simply vote for the resolution of the union committee. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; the votes given, 71; the supporters of the city are 67; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 4; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u1	Therefore judgment is approved. In accordance with the article 234.6 of the Eusual Act, each member of the legislature is within five minutes. Miss, Mrs Martínnez mustn't speak. Is one of the Basque Popular-Ciudadans going to take the word? No? Together, Podemos-Nozzer of the Anxiety team shouldn't speak a word. Basque Socialists? Yeah? Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u2	Thank you, President. Egun where you're going. Very brief. Today we are closing an important process in terms of updating and forming a body responsible for monitoring the financial and accounting economic activities of the Basque public sector. or main function, therefore, is the supervisor and therefore its solvency, objectivity, independence and accuracy must be guaranteed. Principles that are achieved through the professionalism, experience and expertise of its members and of all workers, lawyers, auditors, etc. And of course, for the work systems and the procedures for the approval of reports. The Basque Socialists have submitted two candidatures of recognized and long experience in the financial economic field, and of course they meet all the requirements laid down by law. But I would also like to highlight a number of positive aspects. Firstly, the election of the people who are going to form the Basque Court of Auditors is to be made with the strengthening of the majority of the three-fifths of the votes in favour of this House. Secondly, not only has the Basque Court of Auditors Act been renewed and improved, but it is also an important part of the board members of that body. And thirdly, which envisages the presence of a greater number of women, as foreseen by law, which introduced the need for a balanced appointment between women and men members of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. We understand that with these incorporations and improvements we contribute to creating greater credibility and prestige of the oversight bodies of the public accounts. Nothing more, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. The representative of the EH Group, Mr. Estarrona, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. And because of the changing and interested judgement of the President of this legislature, you agreed to a change of law in the Basque Court of the People in the 28th of last October. And then we said, we said, then there were very little changes in the law, just a make-up. You've been trying to tell me that the 1988 law changed... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... that they were in the law, but only a make-up. You've made it known that the Act of 1988 changed almost nothing. That's confirmed by the appointment today, as I'll explain later. But first, I'd like to remind you of what I said at that meeting. And we said behind the consent of the law there was a change of chromium that responded to political interests. And besides, that this distribution of offices was not democraticly respected here by the people. We asked you to find out if that was the way it was and that we'd testify if we were wrong, and today we don't have to sign, but we have to sign. We do not rectify it today, we ratify it today. We ratify that the distribution that you have made serves political interests. You make the Basque Court of Public Accounts one more instrument at the service of the governance pact that you have signed, sharing five of your seven advisors, thus ensuring control of the reports that audit the main Basque institutions governed by you. But as I said at the outset, with today's appointments we also see what we have been pointing out throughout the process of this law. And it's that one thing is the words and speeches that support everything and another thing is the facts, the reality, the result. Today, it'll take seven voters more than six years to vote for the members of the court. That's where it begins and ends, the changes that begin and end today with some effect, the seven more votes due to the three-fifths. And it is not a coincidence, because if it had been established in two-thirds as well as in the other organs, as if it had been established at the University of the Basque Country Council, as in the EIB Administration at two-thirds, you would have had no time to do with PP and you would have needed another parlamentary group. You understand, you understand, don't you? How difficult it would be to make a game of you from seven to five. In these terms there is a consequence of this fact, and a collective failure with various responsibilities, but it is interesting to keep it that way. We can't talk about an independent body, we can't talk about an independent body, elected positions, public positions and active trust, going from night to morning to being members of the Court of Auditors. I assure you that this is not within the minimum standards of independence and impartiality for such oversight bodies. And this just happens here. It will be legal thanks to your law, but nothing ethical. Given those who are to be appointed, it is now better understood that refusal, that sharp refusal to establish a period of two years of deficiency. Another finding today. And even if we're talking about peer-to-face, the Social Party representative has talked about it. Because this law allows all members to be men by a law of 2021. Hi, you. It has not been given, as it might have been, that the correct measures are not in the law, but, as we advanced, in the six years following, the majority will again be the majority of the males in the Basque Office of the People. Another constatation for today, then. And so I repeat, that there are discourses and words, and then there is reality, results. Today is the international day of corruption and practice, and I'd like to remind you that all the proposals we've brought to the best practice and the proper practices have been rejected, or, as we say, the patada seed anelante, as in the previous week. We also brought in the US Court of Public Accounts, the same adaptation of this law, and you've had the opportunity to give us the steps of being a genuine, independent attorney-general, but you don't want to be. And today's nominations are also his congation. You have made the Euskal Court of the Peoples of the Academies of Government, an instrument which is in the service of the treaty signed Government, by a guarantee of the reports made by the principal institutions of the community which you govern, by appointing five of the seven members; weakening the jurisdiction of the court, and deprestizing the court itself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u5	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u6	Good morning, Mr. President. Chief department, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Today, we're going to make the nominations of members of the Basque Court of the People's Accounts, and we've been waiting to make these nominations up to now that the law that hadn't been updated since 1988 (... Is it not the intention of doing it? The law, therefore, which has been improved by the labor of some years, has, in both impartiality and transparency, been marked on the criteria of making appointments. And so we propose members to complete these improved crickets. We propose three proposals on our part: Miss Anna Helguera, Mrs Líbano, Jesús Maria Bridge Nieva and Ser Jaime Dominguez-Mr. Laurnaga. Three persons, three appointments that are scrupulously in line with what the new law marks. Incompatibilities none. Furthermore, I refer to the opinion adopted unanimously by the committee. Compliance with the requirements of the law recently amended by a broad majority of this Parliament. Yes, full compliance, as I have already commented. And rigour in the performance of his functions, yes, exquisite and rigorous. And fulfilling these parameters is as always since EAJ-PNV we have submitted the candidatures for this body in the past and in the present, always. scrupulous compliance with the law and the Code of Ethics with the approval of the Commission on Incompatibilities that some today continue to criticize when they have not even made a minimum effort to present an alternative or amendments to the newly reformed law. Contributions to the law none, no Mr. Estarrona, none, but criticism of appointments all, and especially if they are from EAJ-PNV... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ...renovated. Contributions to the law none, no Mr.Estarrona, none, but criticism of all appointments, and especially if they are from EAJ-PNV. You speak of dignity and that you are not represented proportionally in this court and of the dignity of this court. If it were so worthy, do not submit candidatures, do not submit candidatures, because today your candidate, by the way, man, you defending parity, we have presented women, you only present a candidate, one, one, and it is man, that is, therefore, as you say, from the saying to the fact there is a stretch and if it were so worthy you would not have presented any candidate. By the way, I'll remind you again. That man candidate is going to come out thanks to the votes of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, okay? Therefore, zure diskurtsoa is a polite bear, bathe gero zuen herri kontuen epategian, zuen lekua nahi duzue, eta kandidatura aurkezten duzue. Bale? Baina ez naiz kritika gehiagotan sartuko, ez due you deserve doublako. Because I believe that in the face of criticism, that all they do is take away the prestige that this court should have and that we so much value, we want to thank all the members of this court for their good work, for their commitment to this court, for their excellent work in the same to ensure a better functioning of the Basque public sector. And, from me, and from our party, thank you all who have been members of the court for years ago, without making any ideological distinction, all of you. I, however, would like to make a special mention of it, and to hear it. For all that he has been obliged to hear, even today, from the side of a political party, and although his work has never been questioned or doubted, he, during all these years, has been the President. So our deepest gratitude to the lord of José Luis Bilbao Woods. Thank you for your tireless and tireless work at the service of the citizenry throughout your career. Thanks to him and all the team that has accompanied him in recent years because they have given prestige and credibility to the court. An excellent level for a court that deserves it well. A court that has special value for our party, as I have said on some occasions, in matters of self-government. And with this vision and relevance that we give to this body from the group Euzko Abertzaleak we have proposed, as I said before, three new people who meet, as I said before, all the requirements required by the recently updated and reinforced law: Ana Helguera andrea, Jesús María Zubiaga jauna eta Jaime Domínguez-Macaya jauna. Eta, hemendik, courteko kide izango berri izango direnai, gure babes eta zorte onena, courte Honen funtzioa, system publikoaren guardantasuna éa funtzionimendurako ezinbestekoa ikusten baitugu Eusko Abertzale tadetik, Tribe Epaitegia. Now, what is up to us all and everyone is to let a team that has achieved the vote of the three-fifths of this House, therefore legitimacy all, confidence in their good doing all too, fulfill their obligations, as have the people who now leave their posts, from professionalism, honesty and thinking of the common good. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. According to the article of the 15th and 214 of the Act of Parliament of the People's Accounts Department, the members of the Basque Court are elected by the Full House of the Basque Office, and the vote for the three-fifths of his colleagues. If all candidates aren't selected at first vote, the vote will be repeated until the site of all the candidates that are missing from the other candidates is completed. Following the article in the ruler's 96.3.b, people are chosen by cards. You have the names of all candidates who are introduced to vote on the ticket. Each member of the legislature will be able to mark up seven names, at most, which in its own square. First of all, the first secretary at the desk will get a number and then the congressman will be called. 36th The first secretary at the table has called the parliamentary members of Iriarte Okiñena, beginning with Mrs. Maddalen, to vote. [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] The first secretary at the table has called the parliamentary members of Iriarte Okiñena, beginning with Mrs. Maddalen, to vote. [[Pause]] [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u8	[[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... Botazioa eginda, luxe izan da emaitza: Crespo del Campo, María Teresa, 46; Txokarro Amunarriz, Xabier, 45; Quintanilla Angulo, José Ángel, 46; Anda Apodaca, Immaculate, 46; Helguera Liban, Ana, 46; Zubiaga Nieva, Jesús María, 46; Domínguez-Macaya Laurnaga, Jaime, 46; zuriak, 6.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u9	Thus the following are chosen to be members of the Basque Court of the People of Accounts: María Teresa Crespo del Campo, Mr. Xabier Criro Amunarriz, Mr. José Ángel Quintánilla Angulo, Mrs. Imula Anda Apodaca, Miss Ana Helguera Líbano, Mr. Jesás María la bridgea Nievá and Jame Dominez-Maca Laugnaga. Second point on the subject list: "Sunction of the Natural Environmental Committee, Environmental and Environmental Committee, made on the project of the Basque Environment Administration. Discipline and final resolution. I'm sure he's got the word to introduce the bill. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. Today, the Basque Congress will vote a report of the Environment Administration which has already been approved on the board. This people is a law which requires organized, balanced, and bearable development. When the general law of 3/1998 of February 3/1998 was accepted to protect the Euscal Autonomical environmental environmental policy, the Euscal Autonomy was established. This law was a precursor at that time, and has hitherto led the control of the environmental evaluation, of the debris, and of the contagion. Nevertheless, as you all know, this lesson must immediately be adapted to the necessity of society itself, and also to the ends which have been established as the planet of the United Nations, and as the Green Deal of Europe. This law establishes a legal sphere, which supports the protection of all the elements of the environment, and is followed by the concept of intelligent regulations. It follows that the regulation must be made by strengthening the people's business, by examining the social social social influence, and simplifying the administration from the point of view of the environment, by uniting the procedures, and depriving them of superfluous sources. We are faced with a more modern law, more attached to reality, fully in line with global environmental challenges and, above all, with a law that responds to the urgent needs of our country, our institutions, industry and, ultimately, Basque society. It is a more ambitious law, because it regulates the environmental competences of the various public administrations of the Basque Autonomous Community, thus articulating elements of coordination between the institutions. It is a more transparent law, because it designs a new system to promote the relationship between the public administration and citizens in order to facilitate their participation in environmental decision-making, regulating the provision of information, participation and access to justice in relation to environmental protection and sustainability. It offers a more modern and agile management, ensuring the rigour and requirement of environmental parameters, and simplifying and unifying administrative procedures, but at the same time maintaining high standards of quality typical of our autonomous community. It is a law that respects all areas of competence. In this new management, the role of local authorities and outlaws is theirs to develop the intervention of the four regimes in which this law is articulated. In other words, those relating to integrated environmental authorisation, single environmental authorisation, activity licence and prior communication. Each one acts from its principles and from its relevant role in each of them; without prejudice to the fact that reports are also issued in the management procedures to be carried out in accordance with the competence of the environmental body of each of the institutional bodies and also of the autonomous community. Key developments incorporated in the draft law include the creation of an Environment Council comprising the previous Environmental Advisory Council and the Environment Commission of the Basque Country. Secondly, the improvement of knowledge and information on the environment, for which an annual overview report on the state of the environment will be drawn up and published, and every four years a full report on the state of the environment will be published. In addition, an environmental information system with public access is required through the Ingurunet tool. Thirdly, a new system of administrative intervention for activities with an impact on the environment. A new legal regime for environmental intervention is created, the single environmental authorisation, which, together with the integrated environmental authorisation, the classified activity licence and the prior communication of classified activity, constitute the framework for environmental authorisation alternatives that may require an activity to be launched. All this in function... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... prior communication of classified activity, constitute the framework of environmental authorization alternatives that may require an activity to get started. This depends on the degree of potential and actual environmental impact. Fourth, environmental assessment, where the participation of the public concerned, the general public, in environmental assessment procedures is promoted through the Register of persons interested in the environmental assessment procedure. And where the strategic statements and reports of environmental impact, issued by the environmental body, become binding in Euskadi, instead of being decisive, as established by the basic state regulations. In Euskadi binding. Fifthly, instruments to boost environmental improvement. The promotion of participation in the Community system of environmental management and audits, the EMAS system, or green procurement and procurement, the obligations to be followed by contracting bodies of public administrations and other public sector bodies. An environmental tax is also introduced, where the draft law provides for the possibility of the revenue collected by the public administrations of the Autonomous Community to include a budget item in their respective general budgets. Finally, it also establishes a disciplinary regime, increasing the offences defined as very serious. Where the fate of economic sanctions is established. In addition, there is another new measure provided for in the draft law, which is the creation of a register of persons violating environmental standards in the Autonomous Community. In order to obtain all these ends, several regulations have been included in the text of the law, after the criterion of the rights. In the field of debris an organ is created for consultation and co-working, for co-ordinate planning and managing plans and actions. The work of the border is regulated by the observation of the surrounding regulations, and they are engaged with the workers of the public administration, and with the police. In the environment which regulates the bill of laws, the application of procedure is to improve, and to ensure the greater legal security at the moment of applying it. My duty to accept a green public purchase plan is to receive instructions from the Basque Public Sector in that respect. The Council of Government by decree ordains that the organic structure of the several departments of general administration and autonomous organizations is to be adapted to the means of fulfilling the ends of this law. The co-ordination of the institutions which constitute each administration is likewise established in order to obtain the objectives which have been foreseen in the law. For this purpose, the Administration of the Erythria, the Administration of the historical Lands, and the Administration of the townships, which are more than 10,000 inhabitants, must be a Commission for stability and environment, or the Institutions of the like characters and functions. It may be asserted that the principles of self-consciousness and the nearness, the principles, the prevention and management of the waste, are inspired by the example of Europe upon this subject. This is why it is established that the prevention and management of the debris, and the regulations which regulate this area, must be introduced in some way, in order to satisfy the self-satisfence and proximity of the article of 2008/98. The declaration of great public interest projects also is regulated by certain projects of environmental interests and wants for the whole of Basque society. Projects or substructures for the treatment of the environmental area are the installations for the treatments, the management or treatment of the debris, the installation of the other points, which provide the service of the entire Community community and the most appropriate location for development, or from a more radical view, due to the logistics, et cetera. and so on. In order to defend the general interest, it is necessary to articulate a legal mechanism allowing the decision on the establishment of an infrastructure of higher public interest to be planned and approved from the highest autonomous level, i.e. from the Basque Government. There is a need for a mechanism to enable the Basque Government, in a situation of higher public interest linked to the objectives set out in the Environmental Administration Act, to have a mechanism that can be superimposed on municipal planning, linked to the objectives set out in the Environmental Administration Act. The aim is to improve the definition of projects subject to the legal regime of classified activity licenses and prior communication of classified activity, eliminating cases with little environmental impact. And to improve the definition of projects subject to environmental assessment and elimination of assumptions with little impact on the environment in the case of strategic environmental assessment. In short, it is a new legal framework – that of the law – intelligent, modern and aligned with the objectives to protect our environment, much more in line with the principles of effectiveness and coordination that govern the actions of the public administrations and which undoubtedly responds to the wishes of the citizenry, which demands solutions to the current problems in this field. This is the case with a highly advanced and interesting law of this country. The noise of a part of the law. Only one episode. An interested and manipulated noise, and I believe in it, that the attitude of the representatives of the public authorities is that of the people who are asking us to do so. And to act responsibilities is to us all: I'm just saying that they're in the attics and they're in townhouses and that we're the representatives, and that's how you're represented in this law. Therefore I ask you to do this law which answers to the needs of the future of this people, because I really believe that it will do good to the government of the country and the needs of the people. However, if you don't have to vote for him and try to get him to be abscess or a negative, of course... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] And yet, if you don't have to vote for it, and if you want to take over or refuse it, at least I'm asking you not to spread the lies around the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Any members of the board would like to present a judgment? No? So, we're going to the teams, from the small to the big, Mist, Mrs Martínnez's yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Let us be frank, with this Environmental Administration Bill, what it is about to be European and green, whatever it costs and whoever falls. It is the only possible explanation for a bill that has not liked anyone, has not convinced the opposition, not even the proponents. It should be remembered that in its day the PNV itself introduced 106 amendments to its own law, giving it a full turn. But here is the new text that we also do not share written according to the dictate of the current prevailing after the agreement of (?) París to whom they refer, collecting dogmas and principles of green and ecological programs that today also mark a trend in the Basque Country. A text that tries to impose on the Basques a new climate religion based on the famous and easy transition to a more sustainable and low-carbon economy, as they point out in the explanatory statement. Yes, they try to impose, because the first thing the bill deals with is to regulate the rights and duties of natural and legal persons. Some duties include the development of an ecological tax system. New taxes for the Basques, more box for the government. Nor does it surprise us, it was to expect more of the same. In 2019, environmental taxes accounted for 8.2% of total taxes in the Autonomous Community. Thus, the Basques paid 1,398 million euros in taxes on pollution, taxes on transport and taxes on resources. From this law we will pay much more. It is clear, as I said at the beginning of my speech, that your intention is for the Basques to be greener and more European, whatever it costs and whoever falls, in this case, the money of the middle and working classes of the Basque Country. For Vox, this is not the way to preserve and improve the natural environment. Steps towards the preservation of the environment must be taken respecting the quality and way of life of the people, without the weight falling on the shoulders of the Basques in the form of green taxes. His obsessive transition to a low carbon society, imposing the (?), the change of production model or the green public purchase that they seek under this law, will force Basques to spend huge amounts of money in order not to incur the sanctions that they impose in this bill. That is their purpose, to criminalize the Basques, although I must say that they do not hide it either, because in the same text it can be read as an inspiring principle of the "polluter pays" rule, and it also pays the Basque citizen, in this case, losing his property or rights that will be expropriated to them when the public utility or the social interest so determine. In what public interest are you thinking, on some platform or multinational company. Gentlemen, it is fair to look for the collective good, for the common good and be sure that the Basques are supportive, but can the government say the same thing?, who wins and who loses? The balance, once again always leans towards the same side, next to the Government, and in addition to sibilitously, against, even, the municipalities, which have not even taken into account when drafting this law. That is why, Mrs Tapia, we will vote no to this law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u13	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs. Larrea is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u14	Good morning, thank you. Today my speech would have to be a different one. And I'm not gonna talk about lies, I'm talking about facts. The Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist parliamentary groups, which support this Government and have sufficient majorities, have endeavoured to introduce an amendment that did not proceed within the legislative process of the Environmental Administration Act. And I will explain to you, in case it is not clear, what is the trifle to which you have committed yourself and that it will stain in darkness once again the protocol, the protocol and the way to legislate on the draft law on environmental administration. The procedure, the legislative procedure is what ensures the full participation of the legislative agents. The lack of an informed debate violates the rights of parliamentarians in their participation in this legislative procedure. Because the path to an end is important. It's not worth everything anyway and at any price. I told you last Thursday. There are rules of play for everyone and I'm going to show you that you've made traps this time. Look, I'm going to read you the definition of law fraud: "A law fraud is a maneuver or trifle that consists of the violation of a legal norm under another rule or legal provision. These are seemingly licit conducts that produce a result contrary to the law in which they are protected or (?)prohibited by another rule". And I'm going to explain myself. In order to change a law, a duly motivated and justified bill or amendment is brought to Parliament with its relevant reports from the COJUA and the Basque Local Government Commission, enabling the concerned to rule on the matter in this House. And now what you have done: the government is presenting a draft law on environmental administration aimed at legislating everything that has to do with the administrative procedures on the environment or anything that affects the environment, talking about how, what processes must be carried out by the Ertzaintza, what are the penalties if they are not complied with..., if the law is not complied with. But yet, the PNV... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... the processes to be carried out by the Ertzaintza, what are the penalties if the law is not complied with. However, the PNV has endeavoured to soil what was going to be a bill in which almost all of us would have been, surely, agreed, if we could have supported it, we could have abstained because it was a bill on its basis, on its foundation, which had to be improved, we thought it had to be improved and that is why we tabled amendments. However, in amendment 61 so famous that we have... which we have been talking about lately, article three of the Law on Territorial Planning is amended, but that law is widely amended. It is not a mere superficial change, as other amendments to this law do, which make small changes, but which does not substantially modify a law. You are aware of the process necessary to initiate a change of law. Properly substantiated reasoning, the reports that I have referred to before and after are brought to this Parliament for Members to start a properly informed debate, but no, you have introduced a comprehensive amendment to the Law on Territorial Planning without justification and without the reports that endorse it. They have been covered by Article 135.4 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, and I will read it to you, which reads: "Amendments to the Rules of Procedure may be suspension, deletion, modification or addition", and in addition you have covered yourselves and have violated Articles 90 and 91 of the Basque Local Institutions Act. I'm not going to read them what those articles say, but they should be reviewed. In addition, however, there is a ruling of the Constitutional Court, 23/1990, which takes a step further to refer to amendments to the wording of a bill. He says: "The connection or homogeneity of the object with the amended text is also due to partial amendments or to the articulated one, which must also be consistent with that one". Moreover, the famous amendment 61 did not express any motivation or reasoning that would at least allow us to see its connection with the purpose of the Environmental Administration Bill. What follows from the introduction by amendment of an incongruent new provision rather than through a draft or proposed law?, the lack of information of parliamentarians to work on that draft. Do you know why when a bill is introduced this has to be informed by the COJUA and the Commission of Local Governments?, so that those of us who have to work on that bill are informed and know the legal scopes that we face. And yet, by admitting Parliament's Bureau to Amendment 61 of the PNV, of the Socialist Party, the right of parliamentarians to examine, amend and discuss the legislative initiatives under consideration was violated, and we could do so with some knowledge. In short, there should be an informed debate. In other words, you, I repeat, have used Rule 135.4 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure to circumvent Rule 90 and 91 of the Basque Local Institutions Act. And there's the trichinella. Personally, I believe that the parliamentary level of this House has been lowered to accommodate it in the way the Basque Nationalist Party is used to acting. The Socialist Party remains silent to remain in its place. I would like to know what explanations the Socialists gave to the mayors of their party when they found out that they had given Mrs Tapia a blank sheet to decide on any municipality in Euskadi. And look, Mr. Alonso, I'm going to answer the questions you asked me last Thursday. I believe that projects of higher interest are necessary. But here in the Basque Country, they are not yet legislated or regulated. If they had wanted to regulate them, they would probably have had me in front of them to support them and make a good piece of legislation. What I do not support is to put projects of higher interest through the back door without opening a debate on them. Because you know that they need to be discussed, because in other communities where they have been approved, they are resorting to the Constitutional Court, right? It is for this reason that we have requested that the fifth final provision be excluded from the opinion of the Environmental Administration Act. With regard to the amendments that we have managed to make, they are amendments that are more restrictive of environmental authorisations in protected areas. They include a battery of requirements for obtaining them, and the ones we maintain are amendments that would have greatly improved the text of the Environmental Administration Act, which is a necessary law, but which in the end has been tarnished by a way of action not... because a little respiteable, it is not an adequate way of acting in a Parliament and it is a pity that this debate remains with this summary that in reality it does not benefit at all from environmental sustainability and the fight against climate change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Miss Hatage, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u16	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Well, I think today's day, November 9, 21... Nine o'clock, in which day the chief physician of the Arangcha Tapia became the mayor who is in the shade of the Basque commune. We have often alluded to the correction of this 6th famous, that it subverts the organization of the land, and overthrows the organization of the Eucataian territory. and that in the townships, whether or not the principal designs will be placed, it will be decided from the Government, and that it is of little importance that the citizens have voted in the elections of the townships. We had the opportunity to discuss this in the preceding plune, we spoke deeply, and we asked the government to remove this correction, to leave it aside, and give it up to Eudeli. The motives have been admitted in more than 20 different townships, and have written this request. And at least in Irun, the representatives of EAJ voted for it. So you might say that we're not lying so much when we say things about this correction... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... They voted for it. So it may be said that we are not so lying when we say things about this correction. In the preceding plenoa, moreover, we did not really find any serious arguments or foundations in the speech of defending correction. It must be said that the representative party of the Socialist Party defended the phosmosians in his speech, especially by saying that there exist in several communities similar figures. But in this he maintained these similar figures, he said, or at least most of them, that they were instruments decided by the government of PPk. That's amazing. The Jeltist Party, on the other hand, as it calls for cooperation, was here abandoned to this promotion. Dena her, hitz genuine egin, esaten dudan bezala, sakon honi buruz aurreko plenuman, eta lege hau gure ikuspegitik ez da txarra horregatik Bakarrik. Law your lehendik is txarra zen. Txarra zen, eta horregatik, hain zuzen ere, aurkeztu genituen 34 zuzenketa. We tabled 34 amendments to this law, beyond 61 of which we were unable to comment or amend because it was not in the original text. Of these 34 amendments adopted at the initial stage, four were accepted. The most substantial could be said, the most important, is that of defending the rights of anonymous complainants, in line, by the way, with what is already required in the relevant European directive. But other than this, that's all. And we believe that this law remains, it continues to represent a paradise for polluting industries. Once again we believe that this law is intended to make polluting companies cheap, to comply with authorizations is simple, because the requirements and inspections are almost nil, and the sanctions are ridiculously low. In addition, reporting and investigating polluting companies is becoming increasingly complicated. And that is why we think that, despite the principle set out in the explanatory statement, in Euskadi the polluter does not pay. Besides, he's not being investigated, because there's no means. We say that this law is permissive with companies, first, because the requirements of the conditions of environmental authorizations are minimal, and in some cases, in addition, they are non-existent. They allow a company that emits benzene from the chimney to measure it only once a year. Others who emit ethylene, which is another carcinogen, do not even have an emission limit value; and since they do not have this emission limit, they can issue whatever they want because they would not be in breach of the law. In the amendments we tabled, we asked you to resolve this and that even the emission or discharge limit values of these companies should be stricter, including compliance with the pollution limit values recommended by the World Health Organization in the emission limit values; not the industry standards, which are much lower, much less demanding, but those of the World Health Organization, because in the end those emissions are the ones that we breathe and they are those that affect our health. He wasn't admitted. Another amendment that was not accepted, which was not possible, was to require companies with integrated environmental authorisation to carry out real-time and remote monitoring of their emissions and discharges, with alarm systems if they exceed the limits. We did not reach an agreement either on this occasion, but I believe that after that, once this law was passed, we would have to consider moving forward on the possibility of reaching agreements on this matter. Because we believe it is not possible that in the age of industry 4.0 and digitisation, real-time monitoring of what industries, scrubbers, refineries, bins or incinerators emit and pour is not digitized and automated. We know, you know, that if this could be done, all the pollution episodes that are taking place in Euskadi, which Euskadi suffers, would come to light. They also pose a risk to people's health and also to the environment. A sad example of the lack of control, of the control failures we have, was what happened in Zaldibar. And if we do not want catastrophes to happen again, then the government, also responsible for monitoring these companies, should do something to improve the way in which these companies are monitored. And this law, however, does nothing about it. Also... Well, to finish. As a colophon to this law, with authorizations, with undemanding conditions and that does not monitor pollution in real time, we find an Administration that has a serious lack of resources to investigate and prosecute environmental crimes. We are not just saying this, we know that the Office of the Prosecutor also paid attention to the few people who make up the Environmental Ertzaintza. So little personal in the Ertzaintza that sometimes they have to file complaints because they don't give enough. And we also know that this is precisely why many environmental associations have to go to Seprona. It could be said, in this sense, that in Euskadi in the investigation of environmental crimes because it seems that it is not of interest. Of course, with this law it does not seem to be something of interest. And with regard to complaints, the rights of legal action are also reduced, as associations with less than two years in force will not be able to complain in the courts. It's an ad hoc measure to... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... With less than two years in force, they will not be able to report to the courts. It is an ad hoc measure to get rid of complaints by platforms that are also created, they are not two years old, because they are created for specific cases when specific cases occur, such as those of Zaldibar, Zaldibar Argituz or GuraSOS, with the Zubieta incinerator. They are created at specific times due to serious accidents. That is why we say that this law prioritizes industry, but of course it forgets the health of people and also the health of the environment. And for all this, we'll vote no this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u18	Madame President, Vice President, chief of the departments, members of the legislature, all good days. First of all, I should like to start with a warning to the opposition groups that they do not have the Socialist Group to lose the focus of what is being brought to this House today. You talk about what you think is appropriate. There'd be more to it. Keep turning it around on such an amendment or on what procedure. We are going to focus, as always, on what really matters: on the great progress that the adoption of the Euskadi Environmental Administration Act entails, as one more piece within the necessary updating of the regulatory gear to meet the new challenges. I do not intend to devote any more time to a debate which has already exhausted all its stages. I doubt very much that so much has been discussed in the history of Basque parliamentarianism in so many forums about a single amendment to a bill. I also believe that it is necessary to remember at this time those who have had so much to do with the journey followed by this law since its beginnings in the last legislature. First, remember the strong impulse of the hand of socialist councillor Iñaki Arriola, as well as the patient work of hearing, negotiation and drafting of the infinity of drafts led by Mrs Elena Moreno, then Deputy Councillor for the Environment, and Mr Ivan Pedreira, Director of Environmental Administration. Therefore, they serve these words as a recognition of the work carried out by that first socialist team and are thus reflected in the sitting paper of this Parliament. The Environmental Administration Act that we are voting on today determines the right of Basque citizens to enjoy an environment suitable for people's development, since it promotes a sustainable economy through the efficient management of natural resources. To achieve these objectives requires determined actions, which have a firm regulatory basis that gives them legal certainty and maximum effectiveness. We are faced with a law that seeks to promote private public co-responsibility in the protection of the environment, as the search for solutions to environmental challenges inevitably requires joint actions between public administrations, the economic sector and citizens in general. In short, an opportunity to achieve the improvement of the quality of life and general well-being. With a view to a decisive change in the model of production and consumption that drives a circular economy in which the value of products, materials and resources are kept in the economy for as long as possible and in which the generation of waste is kept to a minimum, placing Euskadi as well as at European level. At the beginning of the 80s of the last century, industrial civilization surpassed, for the first time in history, the carrying capacity of planet Earth. In other words, our economy began to consume resources over and above the possibility of renewing them. Since then, we have literally been eating the future. Currently, the level of human consumption requires 1.5 Earth planets to be viable over time. But the average, like all the averages of this ecological footprint, hides great inequalities. For everyone to live as a middle American, we would need five planets; and to do so as a middle Spanish, three planets. Our system, based on the hyperconsumption and dogma of supposed infinite resources, is absolutely unsustainable. And this law, at its scale, is a further step towards changing the pattern of production and consumption. A law that opens up new ways to optimize the use of resources, maximize their useful life and minimize and manage their cycle as waste. Today we bring to this House a law that sets out the tools necessary to develop the analysis of the life cycle of products, in order to measure their environmental impact and analyze their reduction, eco-innovation in products and processes that allow to take advantage of market opportunities and the establishment of an environmental taxation system dedicated to the promotion and improvement of the environment. All these tools focus on the new challenges that Basque society will have to take on in the near future. In addition, green public procurement is defined in this law as a basic mechanism for the fulfilment of its objectives, entrusting public administrations with their promotion and enhancement. Research, education and training are also the subject of the norm, starting from the improvement in the knowledge base on the environment as a means to extend between citizens and the whole of the institutions, actions, values and behaviours that lead to the improvement of the environment. The same approach provides for the participation of citizens in voluntary actions to carry out activities of general interest with environmental content, and for recognition actions for those who contribute to the protection, conservation and dissemination of the environmental values of the Autonomous Community. It is also necessary to underline the clarifying and unifying role of this law in the face of the cascade of directives, regulations and other acts of high technical content issued in recent years by the institutions of the European Union and the Government of Spain. A regulatory framework with greater environmental protection requirements, but with the risk of multiplying complex authorisation procedures, as well as creating a real obstacle. That is why this law is articulated under the premise of the concept of smart regulation laid down by the European Commission, which promotes the adoption of rules that strengthen the role of citizens, analyse the impact of regulation on socio-economic life and aim at administrative simplification, unifying procedures and eliminating unnecessary procedures. It is intended to set up a system that, satisfying the general interest of the protection of the environment and the health of the population,... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... Unnecessary procedures. The aim is to set up a system which, while satisfying the general interest of protecting the environment and the health of the population, is capable of ensuring transparency, efficiency, economy and the effectiveness of government action. Today we are taking one more step in the necessary updating of our regulatory body. Just a month ago, this House passed the Natural Heritage Conservation Act. The Environmental Administration Act will be adopted today. Work on the Basque Climate Change Act will begin next year. An angular stone that must be to support the legislative framework that allows us to define as clearly as possible the new rules of play on which the collective actions and responses to the challenge presented to us will have to be based. Law after law, one after one, firm steps, reflexes of institutions that are what they have to be, that worry about what they have to worry about and that deal with what they have to deal with. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u19	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u20	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Good morning. To-day an injustice will be committed with the majority of the people, but with the demands derived from so many nations, and above the majority, and against them. And I have really bad feelings today, for the first time, in a legislative process. If someone had said it eight years ago in the legislature, that is, I was going to make laws, I'd probably make fun of it. But this is the fourth time I've taken part in a legislative process. And I must confess, though I did not expect it, that the legislative, inclusus, were almost pleasant. The first was the law of failure. We set off from the movement of the village, and I still remember how we brought them to the parliament with more than 100,000 signatures full of 17 chests. This law was entirely connected with the defence of the townships, and, in fact, the power of starting the legislative trial was given us by the campaign of the townships against the franchise. When the trial was over, the law which had arisen from the popular initiative was admitted without a vote against it, and brought an end to the townships the threat of failure. The second, as a member of the legislature, was the most energetic of endurance. Even if we didn't like the initial text, through the amendments and negotiations, Mr. Grabaris will remember, we agreed to a pretty good law. What was the essential element in making for the law? He maintained the interest of the councils to agree to a proposal of ours, the foundation for my own emergency transition from municipal cities now to be active. This law had no opposing votes. Third, recently, of the preservation of the natural theory. We introduced more than 100 remunerations, and after a productive offer, witness Telllería, the agreement. One of our most important achievements, the creation of the local coordulation committee, the approval of the law, that the law is more than 90% of this Camera as well as the law. But it's been quite different from the law of the Environment Administration. It's been unpleasant. Because the text that will be accepted is harmful, but also because of the perverse process we've been through. What required the technical law, you made the riot, the disturbance that you made, by creating from the back door of the lines, the new jurists of which the townships have the ability to impose almost any project. And, Mrs. Tapia, you just said you're asking me not to lie. Well, don't do it yourself. You have said that the projects of public interest, of interest, and of certain projects which require them, are intended to lead them; the ruins, the ferns, and the like. And that's a lie. The law does not determine which kind of projects these particular projects are. The law says 'intiners social', and there's what you said, and it's a lot more than you said, and it's also done on purpose. So if you ask him not to lie, let him not lie. And because by the back door, yes, the law of the organization of lands is altered in a decisive manner by a correction which we have not been able to examine. As I have said, by denying the word to the municipal councils, and without a legal guarantee, and all running in haste and ill, as I have described last week, forcing the legislature and the ruler, and wringing the duties of the table and lawyers. Here's your achievement, Mrs. Tapia and Arrivalga, your merit here. This was a law which had no correction on the side of opposition. There was no total correction. And today, with the opposition of all opposition, I'd say you're going to vote with the bad-natured socialists. Besides this, there are dozens of towns, where more than half a million people live than they do, saying that they will not receive this law without their hearing, as many townships as you govern in it, as many councils of your party. And the opposition to social and economic movements. The seals on this law are accidental and self-attentional. I haven't talked about this before, but I think it's time to tell you a few things. Here are two patterns in the collision: as in the other laws I have already mentioned, many of our amendments have been the interest of the townships, and their participation in them to secure and improve. Here are two models of governance in collision. And today I want to highlight some of the amendments that... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... Many of the amendments have been the interest of the townships, and their participation in them, to support and improve. Here are two models of governance in collision. And today I want to highlight some of the amendments we have made to the law so that we can understand what I mean. Through the amendments, and despite the fact that the person responsible for negotiating the PNV confessed last week that we had not looked very closely at them, we had proposed that Amendment 18, when a potentially harmful activity is to be installed in a municipality, gives the municipalities the capacity to influence environmental authorizations, also in matters of their competence other than urban planning, such as noises, smells, vibrations, discharges, heat, etc. We sought, amendment 19, to incorporate into the law the capacity of the municipalities to request the ex officio review of environmental authorizations for activities operating in their municipality. We sought that the municipal plenary could request the establishment of monitoring tables for activities subject to environmental authorization. We were looking for amendments 21, 22 and 23, the creation of a support service, especially in municipalities with less capacity for (?) Technically the work of monitoring, inspection of classified activities and so many others that have not been accepted, as well as our amendment, the most important measure in defense of popular and citizen participation, the regulation in this law of environmental citizen consultations vis-à-vis major projects. There is a model there, it is a model of participation and support to municipalities with less resources of inter-institutional collaboration, of Auzolan if they want, proposals that have met with a wall, or if preferred with a cover. There is another model, his, well reflected in this law and goes in a completely opposite direction and culminates with the poisoned winch: the obligation to municipalities through projects of higher public interest to bend to the plans imposed by Lakua. Two ways of doing things, obvious, I know (?) can be seen in the articulation of the law, but that has also been seen in the process, because the Basque Nationalist Party, in the debates that have taken place in the villages, has directed its own mayors and councillors to defend the amendment of the Law of Ordination of the Territory for the benefit of Lakua and to the detriment of the municipalities, to say to their offices that it is good that their municipal planning is suspended and adapted to what Lakua says, to make them say yes, that it is very good that Lakua is... from Lakua is limited the ability to order the municipality. That is to say, from Lakua it is being said, for example, to Gorka Urtaran, mayor of Gasteiz and president of Eudel, and therefore, of the interests of the municipal powers, which is very well, and from today, Arantxa Tapia can declare, for example, the well Armentia II project of superior public interest, because it could with this law, and from there the urbanism of Gasteiz would have to adapt to this, and that the denial of permission that he signed as the well incompatible with the General Plan would not be worth even to punch. That's what you're telling your mayors and deputies, by the way. This law will be born with a majority, but it is born in dissent. It is born with the democratic deficit of not having given the floor to the municipalities, of not having given this Parliament or anyone the option of analysing its consequences. And he's born with his own name. The Environmental Administration Act is not born today, the Tapia Act is born today. A law that identifies municipal competences such as Urbanism, a law that renounces the planning of the territory, a law that is harmful, that in addition to other harmful laws of its own name, as was in its day the Corcuera Law or the Wert Law, and that like the labor reform or the law bites, enters in priority list of laws to be repealed. And I'm done. If what you wanted with this amendment to the Territorial Planning Act was to generate a master key to undermining local resistance to certain projects, today you're going to get the opposite. Each approved project of higher public interest will be synonymous with arbitrariness, and in the arguments that there would be to question some projects, whether weak or consistent, it will be added to the one of imposition and this argument will be unappealable, because that is what entails the adoption of this law, giving way free to imposition, political myopia, that is the Tapia Law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u21	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arriganaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u22	Mr President, the President, the chairman, the congressmen, the good days and a special greeting to you. Chief Tapia, this is our lucky day. Happy day. We're going to take another law and the Environment Administration Act. The Chief physician presented this Chamber in the last few days of the year that the bill of law was gone. We accepted a couple of weeks together with the bill of law on Nature Ondare. So this text has gone a year's journey on the legislature. And before the year was over, and before this meeting was over, we find it most gratifying that the rapidness of the admission that had been in some discussion of the whole week's whole meeting seemed to us a little malicious interpretation. Well, I'll tell you, after a long row of yearly parliaments, that I don't see any extraordinary freedom anywhere. And on the other hand, when two weeks ago the law of nature was discussed and admitted, we may say that it was so, and that no one had it, it was not taken too soon. From what I said the same day that I came from the beginning. It has been cited more than once as a technical law, and in a great measure, that is. Any one of what the chairman of the Tapia department has said today can understand that for those who are expert in the transmutation of environments to be an efficient work tool for everyday work... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... every one may understand it so. We are facing a law that has been designed to be an efficient daily work tool for people who are expert in transmutation of environments. Perhaps it was also paradoxical that the word educating educating from a law was so technical, and in such a political situation, in its worst sense, perhaps, had arrived in the case of the educators. But, as I said last week, it's not uncommon among us, it's not unusual, it's war creation. I have always thought that wars, political wars, creators, and firemen are never acquired by their own means. And in this case, I am very clear what they have been, what was the main firer. Anyway, it's time for us to finish the treatment and accept the law. Other things, because it's a necessary law. It is necessary, on the one hand, to adapt to the numerous legislation which has been created to protect the environment, and to present the procedure of the Environment Administration. And, of course, by combining this design with the protection of the environment, and the intention of increasing the guarantee of the quality of the people's life. It is therefore an important law, because it explains the concepts, and adapts and adapts the legal and regulative process which has been given in all these years. In some cases regulations which have not yet been established in Europe. The right law is, because it explains the jurisdiction of the environmental procedures. And a very necessary law, not only for the Administration, but also for the purposes of any enterprise or project, which facilitates and facilitates the procedure of the Environment Administration. And in a legal frame, which supports all the surroundings a strong protection. The chairman of the Tapias have mentioned the important points and principal features of this law which will be admitted to-day. It is not my intention to repeat what he has already explained. If it be so, I put it under this idea: It's a law that wants to face the complexity of the environmental administration. The law which seeks to lighten and speed up Trammys, freeing the knots of excessive bureaucracy, and to secure the greatest protection of the environment. In answer to the needs of a tolerable so-called social development. In addition to this, the chief physician has also mentioned several other modern elements: the green public purchase, the circular economy, the design, the tag, the Green Attorneyhood, etc. All those which are spoken of in a rapid manner, and others, in the period of the ecological transition, will be very important steps in our public politics, and even in the practice of citizens and operators. Because the challenges we face are not weak. Have a climate crisis, be the loss of bioanity, any kind of infection, the splashing of the sea, or the waste of natural resources. We live in crucial times with environment, we have no time to lose. No time at all, not much, we have no time to waste. And we're all involved in this mission. To the succeeding generations, not only vital, not only vital, but also agreeable in the obligation of leaving a world. This law is a good one. It was good when the bill was introduced to you. It's better today with various reports from the team. With the Socialist Party, we introduced 106 corrections to the bill. If I am not mistaken, I shall not say so much to the law of Ondare, but above 90. Most of them, not all, from the comments made by technicians working in the law's application. By these corrections some have been mentioned, some things have been introduced; Organic coordination of debris, taken in the representation of the first sector, improvements in transfers, municipal records for the case of preliminary communications, a plan for green public purchase, and so on. Four of the amendments tabled by Podemos were accepted. Indeed, they also improve the law. And it has been a shame to not have been able to reach compromises in six other – so we tried – that they would have improved it as well. We can say, the spokesman for Podemos has said that this law was bad, despite even without the 61 that it is a paradise for polluting companies. We can mark from the minute one what were their two red lines, their two themes, and we try to reach, also at the last moment, an agreement on those. But, one, the continuous measurement of activities in the Integrated Environmental Authorization, although we made this attempt at approximation, occurred that, for example, the steel industries do not even have BREF, and that therefore the measure proposed by Podemos could not be applied. Moreover, it happens that the problems that arise in the emissions, usually arise in the diffuse emissions, which makes technically impossible the claim of Podemos Ahal Dugu. And the other red line of Podemos were the emission limits, putting as emission limits the recommendations of the World Health Organization. We try to clarify over and over again that the WHO recommendations do not set emission limits, but rather emission limits, and that technically emission and input are not the same thing, and that therefore it was difficult to fit into the legislative text to translate, because yes, the WHO recommendations into emission limits. And by the way, the matter of benzene was that, I think we are also commenting, that it does not even have established emission limitations. EH Bildu proposed 38 amendments. We vote yes on three. I think we proposed another eight possible transactions. All of them would have improved the law, but with the already famous amendment 61 we found and there was no way. And, yes, we have reached more agreements with the People's Party. Of the more or less 93 amendments that you have tabled, we accept about thirty and have another ten, and all of them consider that they improve the text of the law. Beraz, it was a good law, and now it's a better law... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ...we fucked another ten. And we all consider that they improve the text of the law. Beraz, it was a good law, and now it's a better law. It's even better because it's got the same 61th degree of correction that's been made. The chairman of the Tapia department has very well explained why it could be 61. The application for this famous correction: they have always a strong interest and need for the whole community. And there will always be environmental projects. And we are always discussing the designs and purposes of this law which we are discussing. And, básicamente, as the chief physician said, can be the installation of the dirty water and the treatment of the debris we all produce. I'm sure the projects that are to be accepted after a definite process of firm environment for which the town is to be considered are always correct and decapitated. And from that point on, then for ever: I lie, manipulation, and bustle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing on the answering shift, Misto doesn't have to say a word. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadans, Mrs. Larrea, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u24	Well, look, today is a lucky day for those who want to impose their way of acting on municipalities and outlaws. You stand on the umbrella of the environment to give way to projects, either from the government or from the PNV. But what is behind these projects for the mayors, their mayors, in the Basque municipalities to speak out against this nonsense? Because if you had let municipalities and parliaments comment, talk, position themselves on these projects of general interest, we would have no project, because I do share with you that the Environmental Administration Act is a law that has been improved, of course it has been improved. The only thing that has upset her is to admit Amendment 61 in the ways that it has been accepted. It is clear that there is a need to discuss projects of best interest. And I'm going to keep turning it around. They're not lies. They're facts. There is a reality in the procedure that has been carried out to develop the Environmental Administration Act, and they are not lies. I would like to know why the mayors of the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party who here in this House have tabled this amendment are against it. Because they stand against and sometimes even force them, as happens to Mr Urtaran, not to question what they are doing, knowing that he himself, with the well of Armentia, signed an order to say that it did not conform to the urban planning of Vitoria. So, what's going on? Is there something we're missing? Why did you have that need to get projects of higher interest so quickly? Time? Two months, four months? If there was a problem, if there is a waste problem, which we are also aware that there is a problem with waste in the Basque Country, we should have brought it here, we should have discussed it, and it really would have gone forward in a cleaner way. Just that. The Lords of the Socialist Party speak only of what has happened with the Environmental Administration Act, which is, save the fifth final provision, I recognize that it is a law that has been improved and is a good law for the environment in Euskadi. But the problem is how you have imposed projects of higher interest. They have not been engaged in dialogue and have not followed the procedure that should have followed the legislation of these projects. This concept was not included in any law, let alone in the Territorial Planning Act. I just want to say one thing: think about how you impose projects. That's where they find us in front of them. We need municipalities to speak and have a bit of an opinion, at least with regard to their urban planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Together, Podemos-Nozzerate Group, Miss Hatage, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u26	Thank you. Well, it's true that the sederurgic industry don't have document (... but this does not mean that in other kinds of manufactures it is impossible to penetrate deeper into this circle of harmony. On the other hand, emissions and emissions, of course, the terms we do not mix; we know that they are different. It's what passes, well, we've got our center, our view is in health. And besides, to help these and manufactures or corporations buy and implement such infrastures as this, we anticipated a game of eight million dollars in the budget. It is, therefore, not a question of knowledge, or an unrealism, or infanttilism, but a question of political will; You don't want to do it. And then you're dealing with technical difficulties, but that has nothing to do with the truth. On the other hand, with this famous 61 correction, well, what will happen will happen in the townships, when the government wills to place in the megallanta, or the eolith, or the will of the townships against the will of the townships, the only chance of defending itself, and of defending itself, will be to appeal to the courts of justice, and its own will. "Todo por el pueblo, pero sin el pueblo..." [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... The only chance which will stop the townships will be to defend themselves, and to appeal to the courts to their interests and their own will. "All for the people, but without the people" gives law Honen lelo perfektua. We believe that, in fact, this law what serves, the objective or objectives of this law are: first, to impose PIPS projects on municipalities; second, that in some of these PIPS certain companies benefit, which are the usual ones, and I spoil, Ekiola, Aixedar, we will see them, sure we will see them; third, another objective, that these companies have, these and others, have the minimum environmental requirements, real-time monitoring or monitoring possible. For what? Well, so they don't run the risk of being punished. And the fourth clear objective of this law, which is that, in the face of complaints of environmental offences or offences, to prohibit complaints from associations with less than two years of life. That's part of it. And on the other hand, do not provide the Ertzaintza with sufficient resources to investigate the possible, and prosecute the possible environmental crimes. These are four important objectives of this law, which we cannot share, and as I said earlier, that is precisely why we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso mustn't speak. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u28	Mrs. Arriega, not fireman. The fire is my trade. And I am Michael Otero, not "el Otero"; for once we're at it, you're wrong. I think it's all over now, or almost everything. I dare say that at this day the majority prevails, but an excess prevails. So I'd leave the majority with the feeling of what's happening. We'll see what happens in the next few years through this law, but it can happen that anything can happen. It seems to me, too, that Mrs. Arriguega has done it again, that charge about lies and noise, isn't it? And he even made the blanket. It's funny, isn't it, clairvoyer, the others? but what lies is not said is false, it is not perceived. But then I go to the concrete things, don't I? I'll have a few interpelation words from Tap's interpelation, and he would say: "This is all transparent, all gone in a transparent way. No? That's where you've had the power. And he said, specifically: "What is the power of the law for? I'll give you my opinion and discuss it. And besides, people, experts, people can all be brought in. I guess you'd have brought them, wouldn't you? "I don't know. What kind of hair is this, Mrs. Tapia? You know, when you have introduced this fundamental change of the law of the organization of lands by amendment, we cannot afford to discuss it. I guess you guys would have brought them, knowing we couldn't bring them? And then we're the ones that tell lies? You come here and tell me it's been a transfer, and we've had a chance to examine this change of law? When we lie, let us lay down the words that are laid before us, let us lay down the full name. Eta bukatzen zenuen zuk interpelazio hartan, ezta? "I don't understand, I don't understand where the problem can be." And I'd answer you like Becker. Not Boris Becker the tennis player, but Gustavo Adolfo Bécquer, the poet, in the eyes, yes. And I leave a note to Mrs Arrizabalaga, who then binds herself and invents disrespects that she imagines to justify her diatribes at this point. The Otero is going to do a little tweet, which is not disrespectful, but is love of poetic paraphrase. I insist, Bécquer, Mrs. Tapia. "What is poetry?" Becker said. "What's the problem?" You ask me. "What's the problem you tell me while you nail your pupil, my pupil in your blue life pupil" "What's the problem? And you ask me? The problem is you." The problem is you. The problem is how you understand the environmental social interest. The problem is his understanding of the balance of institutional power in this country. The problem is that you are left with municipal powers. You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, like, like, like, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, you know, like, like, you There was no doubt that a poco is a sleeping concreto, is it a theme de los residuos? And, finally, I want to end up like you finished last week, Mrs. Arrivalga (with the Black Ossto? (Laughter) Because I think it's obvious to put an example to Osinbelt in order to accuse our impossibilities. You know why, don't you? In the Osinbel project, if anything remained open, it was a pattern of government, a part of the Cesto and the people to explain and listen to, to the exercise and activity of hearing, to the porch. It was done in all the behaves, Mrs. Arriguega. And do you know who should take that project if you want to go forward, Mrs. Arriguega? The citizen, in a consultation, as we have suggested in this law: querying with regard to this project. Which side, right? Well, today, with what will be accepted. But I understand that it can't be possible to understand this if his project insists on his finger on the lake.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u29	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arriganaga, your word is yours. [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u30	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arriganaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u31	Alderdi Popularrari zenbait gauza was zungo nioke, baina ez dut nahi detailtan sartu. Larrea andrea, gauza bear potoloak esan dituzu gaur: "I have cheated, fraud of law, dirty, incongruity, the Bureau violated the rights of parliamentarians". That is, to be clarified, and when a parliamentary group makes a proposal for a law, what happens to it? What does the COJUA say in that case? What the LILE in that case, Mrs. Larrea? Good thing you didn't read us the articles. But in any case, I don't want to unravel them and I don't want to say things that are true are not going anywhere. But I was really surprised by your intervention. And it wasn't my intention to let you see the things I've said. But, well, you forced me. No, it wasn't our will that we tried. You had your red lines, and those red lines, technically, went through things that were impossible. I do not know whether infantilism, ignorance, will, will, or pure political pox. I don't fit in the ratings. And then lies, but lies aren't told, Mr. Otero. Well, for example, what you said today is a lie, "la del PnV di no haberlas mirado con mucha atnción." No. It's a lie what you said last week, "la del PNV que metíamos est enmida paraner lo nos dieara laga." Those two lies are so full of lies, Mr. Otero. You play a funny game, 'cause you don't tell me dirty. Edozein modutara, gero, henera, skill handia daukazue jakiteko beast gainontzeko alderdiek zer pentsatzen duten, kargu munzipalek, gureak, zer pentsatzen duten, zer imposatzen diogun zeini eta abar. Baina beaste gezur bat, adibide bat jarriko said, Honen harira komentatu duzu. Mrs Tapia may declare Armentia as PIP, or PIPS hobeto eanda. When we all know that the lehendakari and Mrs Tapia have long said that there is no exploration or exploitation of gas, and when we all know that it has been quite a while since a law has been passed there by Madrid that explicitly prohibits this type of project. However, they are usually used to fuel certain arguments. Which is something quite similar to the use, but of the lie – which I would say is just as much as it is – yes of manipulation. And I thought it was very dirty and Tapia about the law and all that stuff you said. You were in the government in the previous legislation, right next to here in Navarre. Besides, it was yours, there's a law like that you've been in command, I don't know who'd accept it and what purpose, but you've applied it and you didn't demean it. Like that, I know. One day, lest the Most High should not, but if you would one day come to govern them, there may be something that is possible for you, and that I said this to you, then you would apply the law; and it would not be a law called Tapia, which would be a law of general interest. And then the blackest, ouf, the standard of government. We reported what you were doing when we reported it, and then you said, "Hey, we're going to make a town investigation." But, of course, we'll be questioning the town after the election is over, just in case. But it was a very nice example of how much the real respect you have for the planning of the country left on the surface. And, of course, you have always been democratic, but at the moment of your chance you forget it. And it's not just that you don't look after planning properly, it's not just that you don't just offer people a chance to participate in it. No, no, it's a law protected by a democratic majority, a formula in this case, that you don't apply, by making a porque yo valgo. Because that's what you're talking about. You don't like what you don't like, and that's all. Let all the others do what they want to say. Now, if you like it, then there's no problem. And what more can I say to you? There are other examples, but why shouldn't we? What you had done in it, for instance, without saying a word to the City of Donostania to call an interrogation addressed to the Igeldo, of course the mayor must have been informed that it was the mayor of the metropolis, but perhaps he was trying to give his vocation. Or Mr. Casanova...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u32	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u33	...what he said in the previous legislation, right? About the beach town. Then the townships of the sandland are the words of M. d'Apanese and Casanova, a project which he intended to establish. The autonomy, the autonomy of the town, was of no importance. Why? Because you don't like it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. The discussion's over and we'll have a vote. Before we start, tell them there have been two technical corrections that have been distributed to you. And they are included under the terms of goods. You've been issued with two technical corrections. Yes, they are divided, and they have already penetrated the law without giving a vote. That's what I meant... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... they have been assigned to you. Yes, they are divided, and they have already penetrated the law without giving a vote. That's what I meant. They vote for the fifth of the last regulations of the EH Union. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at table, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters 21; the contrary, 42; the abstations, 10; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u35	So they didn't accept it, they didn't accept it. They're going to vote at once, EH Collected corrections made by the articles of judgment. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; in favors 21; the contrary, 47; abstaining, 5; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u36	So it's not accepted. The special suffrage of the Basque Team Popular-Ciudados is put to vote for the last regulation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at table, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 41; the abstations, 5; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u37	Not accepted. They'll go to the vote together, the corrections reserved by the Basque Popula-Ciudados, the articles of judgment. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters 5; the contrary, 41; the abstainments, 27; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u38	They weren't allowed. The articles of criticism which have been corrected at the same time are put to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 41; contraries, 32; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u39	So they've been accepted. The other articles of criticism which have not been corrected are put to vote at the same time. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 41; contraries, 32; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u40	They're approved. They go to the vote, at the same time, attachments. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 41; contraries, 32; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u41	They're approved. He's going to vote for the explanation that the Basque popular-Ciudados reserved for the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters 5; the contrary, 41; the abstainments, 27; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u42	Not accepted. The explanation will be put to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 41; contraries, 32; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u43	It's accepted. The name of the law will be transferred to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 41; contraries, 32; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u44	The name of the law is granted, and the law of the Basque Administration is therefore approved. Third point in theme list: "Mortion, introduced by Erasitz de Egililaz, members of the Rammos EHGG, concerning the conditions of unsidential investigators and Doctors' work. To discuss and to decide once and for all." In turn of the proposed team, Mrs. Saez de Egilaz, representative of the EH Collect Group, has the word to present and defend. Ms. Ramos, please don't do it. Yeah. Good morning, Congressman. Thank you. Good morning, congressmen. [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] We now have not enough of the interpenetration of two weeks, and today we have presented a motion in order to study and study the state of researchers in a larger manner. Let us proceed as a people, and those who work in the world cannot execute their work on the pretorial conditions, and above all it is not possible to normalize and generalize the prerogative. Hence, we think we may be able to discuss the inquiry very much, but we must proceed in the engagement to study and improve the conditions of the work of the people who are investigating. It must be an employment of quality, the end of any government that wants to speak of dignity, and the studyers of Arcaba, Biscay, and Gipus have been condemned for a long time to presidency. We heard the descriptions of the Commander of the Union, and, above all, we heard that the programmes and strategic plans which this government foresees to the world of inquiry are numerous. It is plain, as you have stated more than once, that the inquiry and development are accounts of priority. And this, of course, is a good news for our country. It's good news that research and development are the ultimate goal, but we'd like to discuss the modification that we'd have to bring with us today. That our people may have the capacity to act, let us here continue to develop and study ourselves, because all fields or spaces must necessarily be of quality in the field which belongs to study and development. The point is why we've come here, and especially how we've come here. We've often talked about low wages, or the conditions under which those who work in study suffer. Governments are those who perpetuate this reality. That's why it's contradictory. How's it possible for me to keep funding of research and development in the middle of the year? To fund programmes and helps that are not supported and defended by the laborers' rights of researchers? The study of the harba, Biscaia, and Gipuz, is a fact that the world is a pretor. And that can't be argued. And so all these workers have expressed it a thousand times. Doctors who don't come to 1,000 euros, or inquirers who suddenly have seen or suffer from their salarys being cut down. We must give an answer to all, and this is to be compromised with inquiry and development: to secure the worthy condition of the investigators, and to raise wages for once. We know perfectly well that the world of research is suffering from a major stigma on the part of the institutions. The need for research and development is said and announced in a drum and platter, but what this implies is rarely told: that is, precariousness, instability and a hard way to go through the researchers. Therefore, if we talk about research, we have to talk about researchers, and they have to have guaranteed all labour rights, as well as decent wages. That predoctoral researchers do not become mileurists during the first two years of research is far from the leading country that the Basque Government wants to sell us. In order to change the situation, and in order to ensure the worthy conditions of the researchers, we have represented the motion of today. Because the situation requires this, and because I have been living in the prevarication of researchers for years, and above all for answers. In order to explain the context, we must note that in 2013, the pay of the non-Doctors had been reduced, and that, ever since that time, it had been funk that kept the restrictions. 2019. In the year, however, the Ministry of Science, Newing, and University, approved of the form of EPIFa; that is to say, Stateto del Personal Investigal Predoctoral. In consequence of that, I was suspended for a part of the reduction, but that was because the Spanish Government promised it. The law which accepted the general expenditures of 20th year of Esquimia Ere, on the way to get a decent salary for the investigators here, decided to take the first measures. In the case of investigators who are not doctors, the budget was raised, and in the case of investigators not doctors, the increase of raw fees during the next calls was distributed in this way: 2020-2021 ascents, 5%, 2021-20 to year 220, plus 5% ascent. After that, however, by the orders given by the head of the Board of Education, we saw that the climbs which had been foreseen would not be fulfilled. In July 2020, and in August, we saw that there was no such approach as this, and when orders from 2021 were concerned, we saw that it was going up, but that it did not arrive at 5%. So, in the case of researchers that aren't doctors, the EukMork promise hasn't been completed, and what they ought to have been paid less by predictive investigators. Thus we have brought two proposals to this committee of education which have been mentioned in the past few weeks: On the one hand, in the year 2020-2021 year of this increase of 5% pay, and on the other hand, in 2021 2022 to give you that 5% increase and, in spite of efficiency, that increase of wages to pay back. We missed both of them. And in both of them, Eukko made a bet to keep the researchers from being depresitious. Seeing that what we owe to the researchers is not accepted with efficiency, and that in this business, a bold progress, a little grace of ambition, has given us but little opportunity, we have tried to discuss the proposition we are now discussing. The latter is more simple, but in its origin it was capable of modifying the situation. We must observe, as I have said, that we have been in this matter for three or two years, suffering a terrible blockade... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... it was a kind of transform in its origin. We must be aware, as I have said, that we have been suffering a terrible blockade in this matter for three or two years, without any visible progress in the working conditions of the researchers. There is, therefore, also a question of submission, and therefore so many undertakings, and so many debates. Thus the original proposition has been modified with considerable changes, and we have been able to deal with a half-way proposition. We've been able to deal with parties that support the government. We shall be able to penetrate further into two subjects which are important to us by this agreement. On the one hand, based on what takes place in this year's study, looking forward to it, and looking forward to 2022 and 23, looking at the year's promotion and improvement of salary. Above all, with a pure end, this path will be dealt with by the professors' salary with the categories. Second, we've managed to get a proclamation from the Asanbade of the Basque Doctors to the Board of Education. Doctors, to begin their investigation process, pay a few taxes to continue and finish, which, in the course of the year, directs 300 to pay for their rates. The low wages and the need to pay for these fees stifle medical investigators during their entire process. This, however, has a solution, and EHU and the Board of Education can solve this problem together. Therefore, to accept this point here may be a step forward for us, for a chance of relief from another charge of medical researchers has been laid upon the table. But, of course, we have some things left to us without answering. We think it's essential to make a commitment to RedMork. To say the inquiry will be a secure area, that the right conditions will be guaranteed, and that the investigation and the preparation will not be linked by the hand. We've got the words from the 2022-23 study, but we know that the paper supports everything and we're going to need a supposed modification, or that's all we've agreed to today. So we need, to continue to improve, and we need even more strict commitments to raise minimum rewards, and more depth of depth to look forward to. We'll have to see what happens during this year's study, but these promotions, really, and what we're going to accept today, have to work so hard that the Board of Education can actually make a quantum change, and we'll have to listen. The middle-class one we got today isn't exactly agreed to, because we don't agree with the general reading that RedMork has made around the researchers' work. For us here there is a conflict, and it is essential to require worthy conditions and adequate wages. We can't praise the research world and look out at the program that will push the prevariet if the scholarships and strategys are developed. What will come forward today is not much less a victory, and that is very clear to us, nor is it a salary increase for researchers in this country. Nor is it a clear commitment, but it does pose a new direction, and it is that we get the lives of the researchers to be at the center of the research. And, above all, we moved the record to follow the path towards decent wages, the salaries that researchers deserve and some still don't want to go up. We have said today, we have said it, and we shall repeat it a thousand times: To attempt the conditions of the investigators is to deal with the prestige which is given to the inquiry. This is not a particular problem, this is not a problem of the moment of a collective suffering, it is something that affects us all. As a society, it is a sign of that we have a business as a society, and as a people. If the investigation process is indicated by the preventive, something's wrong. And we said a long time ago, respecting the researchers and protecting them, you know, you know, and you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, We were asked for political commitment in the presentation of the "Asanbal Doctors" of the Basque People's Doctorship. A political commitment to research and, above all, to researchers. Well, it's time we got the work of the investigation and we're on the right terms. From now on, we're clear what we have to do. Hear, hear, hear, and hear; know what it is that troubles them, what they want to do, and see what way they want to go, to secure their base rights, to develop them, and to give them, for once, high promotions and qualitaments. What you got today is only a very little progress. It is, therefore, in this field, and in this line, that we are able to penetrate. Still, I think it's just a moment for the fall-up, we've seen that Eukko hooey has the decency to make a minimum progress in this matter too. And in this sense, I must also thank my fellow fellow, Gorka, the lawyer, in order to make an agreement with him. And, above all, I hope you're looking forward to all this communal work and all this collective work and all the investigations that will be made together. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Cyans, Mr. Barrio, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u46	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor, counselor, ladies and gentlemen. Well, one thing is certain, the salaries of most of the research staff are clearly improveable in this country. And research is the basis of future development and investing in research is investing in the future of Euskadi. However, I believe that as a society we do not sufficiently recognize its extraordinary role or the years of study necessary to be able to devote itself to research. We, my group also share the view that the salaries of the research staff should be increased. In fact, we have presented initiatives such as the cheque... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... my group also shares the view that the salaries of research staff should be increased. In fact, we have put forward initiatives such as the R & D & I cheque which goes in the same direction and in the budgets of the Autonomous Community the draft Budgets also include multiple partial amendments in this regard, which we also invite the groups to support. Indeed, the salaries offered to researchers in Euskadi are low in relation to other sectors of activity and represent a comparative aggravation that is perpetuated throughout their working life. Having said that, it must also be said that in order to analyze this issue rigorously it is necessary and essential also to differentiate the situation of the predoctoral researchers, of the already doctors, to put them all in the same bag of research staff is not to recognize certain situations of the value of the doctor's degree, the effort, the time it takes. These are elements that need to be analysed as well. As for the situation of post-doctoral researchers, it must be said that it is worse than that of pre-doctoral researchers, as aid to post-doctoral staff has been frozen since 2018. Freezing the salary of postdoctoral researchers is not the way to progress in the adequacy of wages, that is clear. We believe that pre- and post-doctoral researchers are not charging what they deserve and a substantial increase in salaries is needed. Bildu's arguments or with many others too, Bildu's ones fall by their own weight. But there is an obvious reason, researchers are our future, they are the best of our youth in many cases and they must be properly recognized and paid and now they are not, and that is the fundamental element. We, as I said before, have an important number of amendments in the budgets to the Department of Education on this issue, which could well give an acceleration, of course, to what will try to be the starting point or the small step that Mrs Saez de Egilaz was saying that can imply this transaction that you have reached with the groups supporting the Government. We have a number of amendments that can take that final step in relation to support... and pay increases. We have made an amendment to the whole, the first in the budget also to require budget allocation for pre-doctoral, post-doctoral and mobility programmes for research staff to increase the salary of research staff. We tabled our entire amendment to the first point, that was, and the second one talks about doctoral fees. Is that... and the truth is that (?) some rates that are absolutely absurd. That is why we have proposed and seen that it has been included in the compromise amendment, we propose to review, simplify, reduce the fees associated with the entire process of obtaining the doctorate degree, registration of doctoral courses, opening of the file, registration of tutoring, fixed costs of tutoring, transfer of academic file, defense of doctoral thesis, issue of doctor's degree, etc., and we request it for all doctoral students, not only for those who have a scholarship and work at the University of the Basque Country. We think this has to be the case. That is the basis of the whole amendment that we tabled. I say again that the compromise amendment they have signed reflects the literality of the second part of our amendment, and it is true that we see it reflected in some way up the remunerations in a somewhat generic way, a little... There is no clear commitment, there is some kind of impulse, small step, as was said before, it is clear that we too have been concerned about R & D & I, Mr Gil has done so in a repeated way and will continue to do so. What we have to do now is, of course, we will analyse what is adopted and vote in favour. But we will be passing at this moment to see and follow closely the steps of the university and the department so that they can go in this direction and that of course what is clearly better today is achieved, which are the salaries, the salaries of the research staff, as we have already explained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u47	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u48	Yes, good morning. Thank you, ma'am, and good morning to all. Well, we agree with Ms. Saez de Egiliz and most of what Mr. Barri said. And it has also been explained how the state of the researchers who are the nearest doctors and doctors is at this moment in Euskadin. We know that in the past doctors, sometimes, they're paid less than 1,000 dollars. At other times, even when the contract ends, without the right to indemnization. And so, and this is very important in the world of study, that there are high rates to allow the thesis to go down, and, for example, en el caso de las persona que tibien cargacente, también's un carga muy inamigible, y también no remunera. Eta beaste kontu bat, ikertzaileen kasuan ez da bakarrik soldieren gauza bat, bathe bai prekariete gaixotaun mental askoren atzean dagoen assumed bat yes. More than 35% of doctoral students confessed that they had had anxiety and depression problems and almost 20% had to go to mental health professionals. 80%, also according to a study by the Autonomous University of Madrid, says that it has or is in a situation of emotional exhaustion. It is therefore a question of wages, it is a question of precariousness or it is also a logical question of health, because precariousness seriously affects health. The position before this proposal, not of..., before this group of mys, is quite complicated in the sense that we were in agreement with the original initiative, we introduced some amendments... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] It is quite complicated to say that we agreed with the original initiative, we have introduced some additional amendments, but they have not been taken into account in this compromise. We are not going to oppose the agreement that has been reached, but they do seem insufficient to us. Of course, we're on the pay trip, but in order to do that, you're gonna have to go up with the Eucommena or the programmes, but also the people who're in EHU. And that's why EHU needs more budget, which he doesn't have, and he's doing what he's doing. Even if we're talking about researchers at this point, we have to submit to EPIFa. And that's exactly what we were saying in our book, we're asking the Red Beetle to pay 2022-2023 at the year of the year of EPIFa, 2019, for the amount of preparations due to the investigators in preparation. I mean, it's not just a matter of wages, but we also have to analyse, we agree, we have to calculate, we also agree, but we also have to make concrete commitments. And this has already been said by the proposing party that it is insufficient, because the wage increase is not armored. There are no concrete commitments of ups and downs and we do not know how much. They were also quoted if it was going to rise by 5%. He didn't go up. It was agreed in the 2019 budgets with my colleagues from Podemos and that agreement was not fulfilled by the government. Therefore, beyond verbal and/or written commitments, without clear commitments of deadlines and increases, we believe that it is totally inadequate, although it is positive, logically, that the Government will analyse and propose improvements. But you have to know what you're going to do. We believe that the salary increase in the previous paragraph, also to the researchers, beneficiaries of all the predoc and postdoc calls of the UPV, should also be extended. And I say again, that's gone too. There was a very clear mention of a program in the initial proposal. He's out right now. And I say again: for that the University of the Basque Country needs more budget. And of course, I repeat, we need the Basque Government to assume the amounts owed to the research group since the entry into force of the EPIF. It has already been mentioned that the EPIF entered into force in 2019, the Statute of Predoctoral Research Staff in Training. Wages were homogenized and increased considerably, although certainly not enough, but in many cases increases will not be applied immediately since the entry into force of this statute, and a large part of the UPV research community has been left uncollected. This has, logically, brought more than anger among the people to whom they owe their wages. And he has arrived at the doctoral assembly of the University of the Basque Country through the LAB union. He's brought the matter to justice. And here we have it: the Supreme Court of the Basque Country validates the interpretation of LAB, the UPV must pay due to the predoctoral investigator staff. This came out on November 26th, if I'm not mistaken. And I say again, the University of the Basque Country, that we do not agree with the resource it has put, needs more resources from the Basque Government to pay what is owed to these people, to these researchers. That's why, I repeat, we haven't signed the EH Collect and the National Party and the agreement signed by Socialists and Socialists. We think it's a step forward in words. That's true. And we won't vote against it, but we don't have any guarantees that pay raise next year or not. Moreover, it has already been said, this distrust stems from a cut in 2013 that has not been reversed by the Basque Government, that the EPIF has arrived and that in all calls it has not been reversed, that a budgetary agreement has been breached, that there has not been an increase in the salary of the researchers. And so, and then also, because it gives us enough... We are concerned about the last sentence of the first point, which is in line with the availability of resources, because the availability of resources will be determined by a gentleman who is not present here, who is Mr Azpiazu, who has other priorities that are not those of raising salaries to predoctoral researchers, as we have seen in this year's draft budgets. And the availability of resources according to who, because there are sufficient resources to meet the needs of this staff. If, above all, we agree with the words of the previous speakers with whom I fully subscribe that in order to dignify the research career, beyond recognizing it, we must pay them what would be fair. Again, there is no reference to the researchers benefiting from calls from the University of the Basque Country predoc and postdoc. And then, well, we're in a very curious moment to talk about something like that and the discussion about the budgets. We met last week at the National Party, the Social Party, the government, and the EH Union signed an agreement on the budget, and there's nothing about this. Well, Carmelo Barriok esan du beraiek ere bai daukatela. Guk was in the bathroom. Amendments 172, 174 and 178, which would increase by EUR 6 million, on the one hand, the contribution to the University of the Basque Country, on the other, aid for the training of researchers in general areas, and on the other, by EUR 2 million, for the development of doctors. I therefore believe that we are at an important moment. I encourage, if they could, to sign these amendments if we really agree to raise the salary of the investigating staff, because we miss, in that agreement between the Government and EH Bildu, that there should be a direct reference this year, in the 2022 budget, to an increase. We could discuss the amount for predocs and postdocs, as if there were, for example, in the 2019 budget agreement. That's why we say again: this requires money to do. It's not in 2022 funds. There's still a chance in 2022's budgets to have that money... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... Again we say: this requires money to do. It's not in 2022 funds. There's still a chance of that money in the budgets of 2022 to increase the researchers' salary, and then again, we won't vote against it, but we're short, especially because of the commitments we've seen or didn't see from the Board of Education until now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u49	Thank you, Mr Martínez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u50	Well, good morning. Well, Mrs Saez de Egilaz, there have already been a number of occasions in this Parliament that we have dealt with this matter well in plenary or in the Commission. I am not saying it as a reproach, I am saying it simply to show that you have a concern about this matter and want to give it a special significance. But as I say to you, it has not been a two or three times that we have spoken about this subject, but I think it is also a matter of justice, as the adviser said in the question of the Control Plenary, it is good to make an overview of how the R & D situation is in Euskadi. There are more than 21,000 people who are totally or partially dedicated to R & D in Euskadi, and it is not small, out of every 100 workers... two out of ten workers in Euskadi are engaged in these activities. It reveals the Government's commitment and involvement with science and is not the only one. This is the autonomous community that invests the most in research and development activities, 2% of our Gross Domestic Product, up to 1,480 million in the budget of 19, according to data from Eustat. This effort also has results due to the quality and importance of the research being carried out, which has also improved in 2020. 60% of the scientific production in Euskadi has been carried out in top-level scientific journals, and over 7,500 scientific articles have been published in the past year. Therefore, the research staff, what we are talking about today, is configured as the key piece in these results and that is why they will continue to form a quarries of researchers. In 2019 450 people were doctoral students at the three Basque universities, 17% more than the previous year. As regards the specific aspect of the specific conditions of the research staff, I would like to highlight the improvements that have already been made in recent calls to strengthen pre-doctoral, post-doctoral and doctoral research staff programmes. And in the coming year, the budget for the financing of research training programmes will be increased by 3.5%, which will increase the number of beneficiaries in the pre-doctoral programme by 5% and 7.5 in the post-doctoral programme by 7.5%. And in the field of predoctoral research, the 2019-2020 call has already collected a budget with an average of close to 10% on the salary of the research staff, with a duration of four years, with the possibility of extending the contract to six years in the case of persons with disabilities. Predoctoral aid is also increased by 5 %, and in the field of postdoctoral research, call 21-22, additional aid is provided to staff of EUR 10,000 during the first two years for travel and stay abroad, and salaries are increased by 6 % for research staff. Finally, I say this because the panorama of science and research in Euskadi is not a problem of an exclusively black vision, it has, like everything else, lights and shadows, and as it is evident that in the current times the importance of research cannot be denied, and especially now in times of gloomy, like those that the world is living with pandemic crises, climate crises, volcanic crises... And in all these cases what is used, science and research. And although it may seem topics that transcend the specific situation of the Basque Country, it is a way of drawing the tremendous importance that science and research have in this world and will continue to have more and more to bring certainties, not speculations, certainties about what is going on and how to transform the world. I'm sure we won't be doing enough, I'm not denying it. We would have to do much more on this issue at all levels, because in this world that is coming to us we have to make many decisions that will have to be based on scientific reports and certainty, not speculation. That it is not enough the effort made, surely, will never be enough the effort that is made in research. But that does not mean that efforts are being made to progressively update the amount of aid in this chapter and the adequacy of the remuneration of the research staff should be underestimated. There has already been an increase in salaries for the last call for pre- and post-doctoral aid. There have been increases and there have also been increases in research groups, which is another important element. To you it will seem that it is not enough, probably to me it seems the same as to you. But I think it is also fair to stress that it has been gradually improving. That we would have liked it to have been more powerful, probably, considering that this is one of the key elements for any modern society, research is absolutely fundamental and the more things happen in the world and will continue to happen, the more evidence remains that science and research are two anchors that set us on reality and that bring us solutions and solutions to this world in which we live. The proposal that we have signed with the Nationalist group wanted to highlight the importance of the investigation and to highlight that there is a commitment from the Government to increase aid to improve the situation of these personnel, and therefore, we would have to make a global reflection, transcending exclusively the autonomous community in which we are, to make a global bet, because this does affect the planet on which we live, to get out of the situations of sozobra that we have on the table and that will continue to come along over time. And for that, science and research are absolutely fundamental. Each will put the degree and level of satisfaction with this effort to a certain degree, and it is very lawful to do so. We too can say that we are dissatisfied. You could probably have done more, you can always do more, but I think it's an effort worth recognizing. And I want to congratulate you on the agreement we have reached with you... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ... I think it is an effort worth recognizing. And I want to congratulate you on the agreement we have reached with you. I wish you could have also joined the Elkarrekin Podemos group or the People's Party. But I'll tell you one thing, too. You have just reached a budgetary agreement now with the Government for the 2022 budgets. I encourage you that in 2023 this part of the salary of the research staff, which has not been part of the final agreement or its initial proposal, will be incorporated into this budget negotiation. That appeal is also being made to the rest of the House's groups, and it will probably be the best way to consolidate that increase in investigative staff and that at that time we can all congratulate ourselves on that situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u51	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Chief, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Today we are able to argue with the conditions of research in this case, as I have said, which have been introduced by the Basque People in the gathering. And it is not the first time we have discussed this question, that we have discussed two distinct laws in this legislation in the Board of Education, and in the former legislation we have discussed many of these matters. This represents the importance of this subject, the importance of our investigation to our people, and of our society. This time, as I have said, we have come to an intermediate agreement, and, in my opinion, it is really delightful, because the party we have signed indicates that we are in the same way, and that we have the same end. I mean, to encourage research and show the investigators our support. Research, and therefore the work carried out by the research staff, is one of the pillars on which every modern, productive and advanced society is based. In Euskadi, the data we have known them and has also commented on it by Mr Pastor through the report on science in 2021, which analyses the years of... the results of the previous year. And without going to the bottom of it, I will stop at four of the conclusions highlighted by this analysis, among which is that the research staff's work has reached, for the first time in Euskadi, the 7,523 publications. That's 13% more than in the previous year. And not just that. If we look at only ten years ago, the scientific productions carried out by the research staff have doubled. Something that, without a doubt, is to celebrate. It is also noted that Euskadi is a leader in return per capita for European funds. In this case, it is noted that a total of EUR 850 million has been raised for research in the period 2014-2020. Also, about two out of every 100 people in Euskadi are engaged in research and development work. This is also positive, because, for the first time, we have reached 21,000 people engaged in research and development. And finally, that in Euskadi we are the autonomous community of the state with the largest investment in research and development activities as a percentage, in this case, of our GDP, with an investment currently close to 2%. And the necessary part of these results, yes, are investigators. And in the same way, we're supposed to say they're together with the firm bet that you've made. And this wager is reflected on by certain particular public policies, which have a direct influence on the daily state of investigators, on condition of their work, and consequently on the welfare of our society. On the one hand, we have the scientific, technology, and development planet 2030 that is going on this year, and that is based on answering three challenges. On the one hand, in increasing investments for research and development, and on the other, instead of encouraging innovation in small and mid-town companies, and in fine, the presence of women among investigators. There are also other factors that have a direct impact on the working conditions of the research staff. Among them we find the investment that is made around infrastructures where the research staff carry out their scientific work, or the equipment with which they carry out this work. In this sense, the forecast also for 2022 is a 16% increase in the budget, reaching EUR 8.5 million in investment in scientific infrastructure, and also in scientific equipment, in this case, allocating EUR half a million from the budget to this objective. Other public policies that affect, in this case, yes directly on the salary of the research staff are, on the one hand, the predoctoral call, which already for the course 2021-2022 saw increased its budget about 300,000 euros more, which has meant that directly over the four years – six in the case of persons with disabilities – the research staff predoctoral has seen increased their salaries. And also in the case of the postdoctoral research staff, who also, in this case, through the order for the 2021-2022 course, has incorporated different novelties, such as one, the complementary aid for expenses during the first two years, in this case, to reduce the economic impact of travel and stay abroad, or the increase of 6% of the aid in the third year, in order to improve the remuneration received by these people with international experience, to promote also the traction to our system and, of course, its integration into the Basque scientific system. Finally, I also believe that it is important to highlight, around the Basque scientific ecosystem and all the variants that may have an impact on the working conditions of the Basque research staff, other programs, such as the mobility of the staff and doctor researcher, which in this case also since 2019 has seen increased their budget, their endowments to be received by the beneficiaries of this call. Or also the research groups of excellence. In this case we are talking about the period 2022-2025, and for that period an investment of 42 million euros, that is, 20% more of this programme destined for this period of the next four years. All those I have mentioned, from the Science, Technology and Innovation Plan, the pre- and post-doctoral programmes, the investment that is made around the infrastructures where the work of the researchers is carried out, the equipment that they use to develop it, in addition to the other aids, lines and calls, have an impact and make clear that the increase or tendency to increase these programmes by the Basque Government, and therefore the commitment it makes about research and its development is clear and firm. And in that, of course... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... these programmes by the Basque Government, and therefore its commitment to research and its development is clear and firm. And in that, of course, we can see that the Basque Government is with the investigation and with the investigative staff. So that bet, as I say. In today's transactional agreement we urge, on the one hand, as has been said, the Government to continue to improve and increase the minimum wages received by the research staff as a whole and, on the other hand, to start by analysing the current situation and then to see what measures can be implemented from the next course. On the other hand, we ask the Board of Education to continue to strengthen the policy of further development until we have an investment of 3% of the raw internal product. This, after all, will affect the working conditions of the investigators, and we believe it's interesting to be in this middle-class situation, even though the other teams don't mention it. And finally, as far as tas are concerned, we ask the Basque Country University, as has been said, to get the title of a PhD, to review, to tune, to reduce, or, as far as possible, to tell it with the Board of Education. I think that at these three points we are fulfilling the demands of this collective community, which is an extensive and strict agreement. And therefore I wish to thank Mrs. Saze de Egilaz particularly for his honesty and effort in the last few days. And all the rest of the teams that will protect him. Because we are all betting on the research and the investment, which, after all, will be for the future and the well-being. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u53	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Passing through the answers, Mrs. Saez de Egillaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u54	Thank you, Chief. Well, it has been asserted that what we've acquired here today is not something we can sell as a victory, but, as I have said before, I'll probably repeat, but that at least we wanted to imagine that there is this nobility to give us a little advance, and especially in the moments at which we have hitherto refused, that a wager is made for a affirmative. And at least that opportunity to play that way in a more collective fashion is on the table. Besides, I may not have mentioned it before, but they are three points in this medium. The former is sufficiently extensive, in general about the working conditions of the investigators, and around the Solitare, and the rate of the professors' wages is considered as a reference to the category. We don't define it, we don't only state the case of the researchers who get the scholarships of Eukong, and it seems to us that in that sense it can be wider and general. And that's why I said that we must listen to researchers and, for instance, to all that he has to say, we have to listen to, in order to analyse or analyse what happens this year, and give a promotion to the next course of learning if it can be given to us. As for the second, the second point is important, especially because it will be admitted to the law of Pregaence, and that will be used for us by the 150 million, and in this sense, by the means of the investigators, we must see what the development of this money is to be. In answer to the parliamentary Martís of Podemus, I understand that this proposition or this arrangement for you, as it is for us, will not lie in it. But whether a choice opens, or a window opens to discuss according to other frames, and especially this agreement is admitted that what has been done before is not sufficient, or at least is not all done in order to ensure the well-being of the investigators. So you've talked about EHU, and it's true that EHU has lost the budget, and that it's given up, and that it's supposed a lot of problems and presupposes them, but it seems to us that other proposals can be made about it, that other ways can be discussed, and that we've tried to put the focus on other elements today. As, as I have said, the investigators of the EHU receive the scholarships themselves, or the rates which those investigators are to pay for, and to adjust, a wager or an engagement, or at least a page of the eye-witnesses of this agreement, at the third point of this agreement. It may therefore be discussed about EHU, and may here be different plannings, because there is a lack of budget, and this is a reality, but it may be a fact, but in other areas or other enterprises it may be allowed to deal with it. This proposition is also a little short for us, this agreement, but we were more short of this suggestion PNV, if we accepted the correction of PSOE. Then it seems to us that this effort has been useful to us, because modern elements and interesting elements have been placed on the table towards remuneration of the daily and well-being of the investigators. And, also, in reply to the Parliamentary Pastor, more effort could have been made or this could have been brought into the budgetary debate as well. But you could also have made more effort, for example, when we put forward in the first proposal some important content so that your partners in this government could contemplate those contents in this agreement, and this agreement was much more relevant or much more important and more general in that sense to pose a much more dignified life for the researchers. I think there's a lot of borders here without discussion. You said that we've brought this subject here many times. We have brought this matter here twice since I was in this legislature, as well as two others, in the Board of Education, brought in a motive due to an interpelation, and the year before I came down to discuss another action. Clearly... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... we have brought in the consequence of an interpelation, and I went down the year before to discuss another initiative. It is evident that it is a priori, and that it is important, and, in spite of the desego, we shall either know or know how this agreement follows. And we'll be able to see if it's filled up, and above all, what's going to happen to those researchers on their way back in the next few months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadans, Mr. Barrio must not speak. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr Martínnez, is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u56	Yeah. Well, thanks again. Well, we didn't sign it, and in order to make it clear, because our corrections were ignored, but at all events we don't have the deal signed in contempt, because it seems interesting to us: It's a step forward, but a little bit. And that the occasion of the ojal is right, by what Erasez de Egilaz said, that a new road is opened, but precedents are not at all good: What was signed on the budget agreement in 2019 wasn't done, some of the things he planned to do haven't been completed. For EHU, well, that agreement you signed between the three of us doesn't amount to any budget. Then EHU won't be able to do those promotions, though I insist that we're not agreed to the allegations that the LAB union introduced against that appeal, but it needs the budget to do that. And the budgets of the Board of Education will remain exactly the same for 2022 years. Then we find it hard to open a new route with this deal, pero well, ojal. Ojalá, as the chief physician of the Arrians says a great deal. And, in conclusion, this subject is very much discussed, because the steps and the tests are very slow, because they take very little steps, and I declare that in February we shall now present another as well as the state of the researchers, not at home, but about the state of the researchers. And, well, we'll discuss this again, because we care about many different groups of researchers. We all, I repeat, praise the enquiry, and the inquiry into this society, but this investigation must be made on good conditions, and not only on wages. And that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u57	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor mustn't speak. Eubertarians, Mr. Álvarez must not speak a word. [[Pause]] End of discussion, we'll vote for EH Collect, the Euskal Socialists, and the Middle Amendment that has been signed by Eucabertarians. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 71; votes given, 72; supporters 72; counters, 0; abstaining, 0; white; 0, 0; 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u58	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Motion, introduced by Loreez Martin as Axpe EH Collector, about the use of digital technology made by children and teenagers EAE. To discuss and to decide once and for all." In turn, Mrs. Martinez, representative of the EH Collect Group, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. And good day to you all. Twenty-nine percent. Only 29% of the teenagers have they confessed that their parents are taking a certain amount of internet use. We call it a phone phone, but it's more a pocket computer. Ninety-eight percent of teenagers have one, and, besides one, before they're 11 years old, they've got it in their hands. These are the effects of technology that Unicef has just produced during his adolescence, of relationships, of risks, and of some disturbing facts which occur in the report, but not the only ones, unfortunately. Remember that this report is of the state class, that it was made to two millions of teenagers, 11 and 18, and here in the community of Esscal, 23 schools and 4,500 teenagers. One third of the teenagers has problematical use with the internet. You know, for the moment, this one, the World Organization of Health, hasn't... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... it has a problem with the internet. You know, for the moment, that MUME, the World Organization of Health, has not taken the Internet and social networks as an addiction, but only games and video games are listened to. But though he hasn't taken them, he's already treated technology addiction, there are therapys both in the teenagers and even in the owners. Five to one...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u60	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u61	One fifth shows dependence on video games. And 15 percent of the teenagers have symptoms of serious depression or seriousness. Six out of ten sleep with your cell phone. And from five to six, one comes by night. Six out of ten teenagers use video games as a time and time of priority, from which half of them play video games that don't belong to their age. And even between that there are parents, even if it's a small percentage, who keep their cell phones at a level while they're at lunch and dinner. And the other day, I jumped from America to the United States of America, and I'd like to mention today the former employee of Frances Haugen, Facebook. On the 5th of October, the Senate of the United States of America, and then on November 8th, Frances Hagueth made it also. The statements are both extremely troubling and urgent. Before the absence of artificial intelligence and algorithms, Frances Hague, it is to be people like Frances, who try to open their eyes, to assert that what they suspect was a terrible reality. These are what I've said about Facebook and even Instagram social network. Many of Facebook research reports have confirmed that in children and teenages there are serious negative effects, and that Facebook is also aware of them. They manage the algorithms and try to attract more people, even though they're opposed to the welfare of people. Facebook, like all other gigantic technologicals, has placed its astronomical profits before people's lives. And the Instagram in the middle. Instagram is one of the most successful social networks used by teenagers. Instagram made 13% of teenage girls think of suicide. That's one of the consequences from these reports. The algorithms on the Instagram encourage polarization, deportation and hatred. The Facebooks allowed him to continue without 99 percent of control on existing relationships. In the confusion of his manner of nourishment, on this subject, the internal report confirmed that the algorithms encourage the anorex, directed to young girls. And this data accords with the Unicephic Report. The digital violence that supposes in young girls is increased. To this we must add a subject expressed in the expressions made in Brussels. Around the protection of children and teenagers, and when they answer the question of a European parliament, Frances Haugen tells us that the parents are angry at the fact that children and teenagers are involved in the Instagram, but because they do not know how to help them, or what to do well for their children. And he said the best way to protect kids and teenagers was to give their parents the resources. So we're on the right track. And this is exactly what we plan in this motion. That is to say, he agrees with our proposal. Because it's essential to have parents with digital companions. We can't just leave children and teenagers in front of all this. If we want to be safe, responsible, critical native, it is essential that the parents should be digital companions in order to adapt themselves to the digital environment. And because it has been mentioned that children and teenagers of euscal are the importance of being a safe, careful, critical native, we must try to avoid all the preceding injuries and profit. It must be safe to take advantage of all the benefits supported by digital technology, and to detect, identify, and surpass the risks that digital technology brings. The other day, when we spoke of grooming, sextorium, sexting, cyberjage, such English Anglo-Synthicism, all related to damage. We have said that we are sure, responsible, that those who make the digital environment should act as if they did it in physical reality, care and critics. Let them not accept all things as they come, that they may question themselves when they are sailing, when they receive recommendations. Behind all this, I am fond of children and teenagers, but also because the interest of the creators of algorithms is included. The teenagers must have their values and principles established before their interests, and we must show them how to do this. They won't learn by themselves. And I want to stress it on this criticalness. It's not often mentioned, and I think it's important... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... I want to put it under cover. It is not often mentioned, and I think it is important: A critical point of view. Cyberhabing, and all the other ills above mentioned, are very well heard, but I miss being critical, and it's as important as the others. Digital technology secure, responsible, must also be critical, and I have several questions to ask about it. Has the boys and teenagers ever shown themselves to be critics about the information they get from their eyes every day? Around lack of attention. How many times do they look at mobile notifications, grades, teenagers and us? How long are they trapped because they know how much the algorithm wants to do with it? How long has it been, how long does the algorithm want to swallow the contents? We almost every day use recommendations: Reporting, shopping, looking for music... Are the recommendations they receive from those systems that affect their priority? Are they manipulative or are they aware of it or are they doing it in a free way? How far does the artificial intelligence, the behaviour of the teenagers, the character and the thought of our children and teenages adapt to us that there are perhaps some interests behind digital technology? Have we shown them how to think and act critically on Internet and social networks? At the time when we've talked so much about the digital revolution, it's essential to show you how to think. We can't abandon things like philosophy. Critical thought, as in real life, is also indispensable in a digital environment. We have to help them confirm the value and principles of teenagers when they're looking for a book on the Internet, maybe the searcher will send it to the Amazon. I won't say my name. He's sending her to the Amazon to buy a book. In a click, easily, but beyond what invisible algorithms say, it is time to think what our priors are, the bookstore in the neighborhood, the easiest or easiest to keep my people alive in the Amazon, with a click, the book in the house tomorrow. And they need to realize that we're responsible for everything that that's supposed to be. And, like with books, with everything else. As for the agreement we made, we tried education, to agree to another illegal use of mobile phone, but it wasn't possible, and this time I'm glad we made a deal. I'd like to thank you, Mrs. Juez Gargo, for the honesty shown to make this agreement possible. It's not the best bargain that I'd proposed, the best thing I'd have done, it can't be otherwise, but I think we'll make a lot of progress through this agreement about children and teenagers, Internet and good use of social networks. This medium, which we have agreed on, rests on three points; first, you tell me the program, we'll have the content today, because the educational material wasn't today since 2013 and 2016. He was out of date on the website, and today was agreed to go to the 2021 content, because from now on a lot of progress has been made and new things have been created. And, always, we'll have two profiles in mind, very important: to be parents as digital companions and children and teenagers to be safe, careful, and critical users. Secondly, we have agreed that it should be a powerful and effective campaign of consciousness, sensibisation, and information, addressed to parents, children, and teenagers, and open to the several media in which they are: On the radio, on TV, on the Internet, on social networks, including the service you tell me and the preventive strategy against children and teenagers, always in order to be sure, conscientious, and critical users. It wasn't enough to put educational material on the website today, because parents and kids and teenagers won't get into the website all of a sudden. This is why it is important to perform a powerful and effective consciousness, sensitation, and information campaign, and to report all these instructive materials. Parents, families, are indispensable, and one must approach them to try to turn this panoma around. And in order to obtain this, the parents, being a digital companion, must either be sensitive and knowing, as the use of the internet supposes, by explaining good and evil. And, of course, parents must be models. And finally, the third point, the aims of Safer Internet Day, have added a new one: The necessity of being critical has been underlined. And taking the critical view to the competition will help them convey it to the videos they introduce, to the critical and practical point of view. And that will help some other children and teenagers to take the conscience of critical view at the same time. Finishing up. I think it's a positive step to move children and teenagers and their parents, guardians and families in digital environments, with care and critical views, and because, during the digital period in which we live, the digital power of the people has become more important than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. Passing over to the teams who were running the corrections together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Angulo, is your word. [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u63	Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, ma'am. Good noon, everyone. This same year, on 4 March, this Parliament adopted a GNP submitted by my group, which referred to the problems of children and adolescents in the digital environment. On that occasion, we focused on cyberbullying, because of its importance and its general nature, but, of course, it is not the only reality with which children live together. They live much broader realities. Given the importance of this issue, we are glad that it has returned to Parliament. The rights and well-being of children, as well as the problems they face, must be central to the political agenda. Children and adolescents live in a digital world from getting up to bed. For them, the presence on the Internet is constant, and even a vital necessity. The bad thing is that to the natural problems of age, now, thanks to technology, you have to add a lot of new situations in an uncontrolled space. It has been many years since the Internet began and the expansion of social networks, and we believe from our parliamentary group that it is now time to measure and evaluate this impact on the emotional well-being and personal development of children, both for good and for bad. It is necessary to allow young people to access the positive experiences that are given here, to make friends, to have access to information, but we cannot ignore the risks that are in it either. Nor can we fail to assess these situations. That is why we wonder why the assessment that the proposing group made at first, when it is one of the most important keys, has been left out of the agreement and will give way to the following measures. Just as we cannot ignore the voices of boys and girls, this situation has also been left out of the transaction: they have the right to express their views, their concerns, when deciding the policies that affect them. We would like to stress the need for these analyses to be carried out, and for the voices and opinions of children and adolescents to be incorporated. Adolescent boys and girls are social actors with an agenda capacity, which implies that they are partners in reality, which they share on a daily basis. And so are the conclusions of a report prepared by the Platform for Children on the attitudes of children and adolescents towards the safe use of the Internet and social networks. The greatest demand of this youth population is that they want to be part of this debate on equal terms, because young people think that there are many prejudices in the debate that place them as people without criteria, without the ability to develop in the digital world and make informed decisions, when in reality it is the adults who have a fairly complex relationship with the digital world. Nor is it a question of seeing who is right, but of seeing that an intergenerational consensus is needed, because we too have difficulties in enforcing our digital rights. It also costs us, and we are exposed to the risks and violence that occur in it: we can give it in fake news or phising. We too have a lot to learn. In the March 4 transaction, we already insisted on the need for a protocol and data collection. But given the caliber of the situation, we believe that not only is a timely diagnosis necessary, but it is necessary to include this area in the agenda of children's policies. Therefore, in our amendment we proposed to create a service within Ikusmira, so that we can permanently promote these transformative changes that are taking place. And we also urged him to evaluate and implement improvements in the framework of Bizikasi. We do not believe that the Zeuk Esan service is the right framework to carry out what is proposed in the transaction, having as we have a specific observatory. On the one hand, we are giving more workload to the service without increasing its resources, and on the other hand, we are diversifying its functions, when it was a service very specialized in listening and caring for minors. It will now also be the service responsible for developing the guides proposed in the transaction. We have no doubt that trust and communication are two necessary keys to tackle the resulting problems in the new forms of socialization. New concepts of privacy and privacy have arrived more quickly than we are able to assume. And for this, it is necessary to equip families with tools to be able to relate to this new space. Therefore, we do not see bad the realization of these guides, but where they are going to be carried out or who is going to have to carry them out. But we are also sure that an integral and cross-cutting look is needed, so that it is from all the departments of the Basque Government: Education, Health, Social Policies and Security, that they are involved in the work of promoting digital hygiene in households, and in this way we will establish measures in terms of problematic online gambling uses, as they have previously commented, we will fight against sedentarism, we will create critical spirit, or we will eradicate the behaviors that constitute cyberbullying. And this work is not the sole responsibility of families or children themselves. Before, as at present, we placed special emphasis on the need to involve the education system. To provide it with the technical and human resources necessary to be able to give professional response to this new way of life, because, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, we believe that the education system is the key to moving towards a critical society. And while great progress has been made in empowering students to manage the necessary tools, we have not given them the same importance in equipping them with the critical capacity to understand the digital environment. It has been said before about including philosophy, which was being set aside; for we fully agree. The Connected Project highlights that, compared to 75% of students who have received technical training in the management of text management tools, only 25% have received lessons in how to look at screens with a thought... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... technical training in the management of text management tools, only 25% have received classes on how to look at screens with critical thinking. And of these only 2% of adolescents are able to critically assess the information found on the Internet. This is what the International Study of Computer Literacy says (?) from the (?), and he says that the educational society must be involved in this critical thinking. And it also says this same study that this data is not the same for all population groups. The socio-economic gap is an important factor that greatly changes the critical capacity of boys and girls. This report says that students with higher socio-economic levels and more devices at home have significantly higher computer information in literacy than those who have a parent with a bachelor's degree score up to 31 points than those who do not. That is why our amendment, in addition, we wanted to focus on the... and we believe that we cannot let go of the opportunity to insist on the services of the Aukerak Suspertzen or Bizikasi program. And we do not believe that these programs should be kept out of the work that we understand should be centralized in Ikusmira, both for the promotion of the Internet and for the dissemination of the guides that were here..., which you have negotiated here. We believe that we must ensure that families in vulnerable situations and affected by the digital divide are not excluded from the opportunity to participate in this digital empowerment. We also understand that Bizikasi has to be an initiative that all centres have to adopt in a way that is also mandatory for cyberbullying to be detected and prevented from being detected. And it must also be ensured that childhood and adolescence know and use them actively and proactively. It is in our hands to equip the younger ones with the necessary critical thinking in view of the information that is coming to them and even in view of life itself. And it is that working such critical thinking in the youngest is a fundamental task in personal and formative development. If the ultimate objective of this motion was for young people to be able to have an opinion of their own regarding a situation and to evaluate the pros and cons of it, I believe that with this transaction that has been carried out, that objective will not be achieved.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u64	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u65	Yes, thank you, President. Today we are discussing the use of digital technologies, it is the use made by children and adolescents. The use of technologies is a very important contribution both at the emotional and social level for a teenager, helps them to make or keep friends, to feel accompanied, etc. And in the opinion of my parliamentary group, the Basque Socialists, this is a good debate, because today almost all our actions and that of our children and adolescents have a reflection in the virtual world. And that's why in the Unicef report that it produced this year, in 2021, on the impact of technologies on adolescence, it talks about ICT, but it also considers it necessary to add an error to that word and speaks of TRIC, because it considers it better to speak and say technologies for relationship, information and communication. And it should be noted that the pandemic and coexistence during the same time forced for the confinements with an online education has also produced an exponential increase in the digital skills of our children and adolescents. And we are aware that the use of digital technologies is fundamental within their learning and integral development. It opens up many opportunities for them to learn, to relate, to work in class to play and to entertain, but it also opens up a whole world of risks that we cannot ignore and that we need them to know for their own safety, and not only should our children and adolescents know it, but also their families and educational institutions. Among these risks we can refer to cyberbullying, blackmail or sexting, sexting or contact with unknown persons, feeling discriminated against or excluded. Grooming or new form of pederasty linked to the Internet, access to content inappropriate to your age, possible addictions to video games, or online gambling and betting, etc. And all that through mobile phones, computers or tablets. The figures are clear in Unicef's report: 98.5% of adolescents are registered on some social network, and 61.5% of them have more than one profile on the same social network. One in ten minors plays or bets online, and can become a ludopath and one in three Spanish students could already have problematic use of the Internet. Two out of ten teens may be being victims of cyberbullying, and four out of ten teens are connected so they don't feel alone. There are many of the figures contained in this report by Unicef. Many families may be having any of these problems mentioned above, which makes it important to carry out an analysis of them by the administrations, and in contrast, there is also a low level of supervision by parents, because they are not aware of the importance of accompanying our children in the digital world. Only 29.1% of adolescents reported that their parents or family members set some kind of rules or limits on this use of the Internet... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... percent of adolescents pointed out that their parents or family members set some kind of rules or limits on this use of the Internet and screens. And that makes the need for improvement, prevention, information and training more important. The Basque Government is aware of its importance, so in recent years it has been taking different measures in this area. In 2015 he developed a pedagogical pathway to work on education in new technologies, promoting responsible, preventive and educational use, being addressed to the ESO faculty. In 2016, a guide was published to parents to inform and train them on how they can educate their children, daughters, and teens in their use. The Directorate of Family and Children worked with the three members of the Basque School of Sports and the directors of Sports. And during the pandemic, not only was there a program to help students carry out all the tasks in their confined homes, but there were also programs to help parents, so that they could acquire that digital knowledge and be able to accompany their children. And also, on behalf of the Councillor for Equality, Justice and Social Policy, Mrs Artolazabal, it has already been announced that by the year 2022, updated guides will be published for families on these new technologies and the use of social networks and also advice to take care of these early relationships of children and new technologies. And in 2022 will also be an analysis of the different social networks and applications according to the ages of these children and adolescents, so that they know the safety guidelines of their use and can show the tools of family use. And in the future of the law..., the next Children's and Adolescents' Rights Act will promote awareness-raising and awareness-raising initiatives and measures to prevent, detect and care for mental health disorders, addictions or problematic behaviors. In addition, work is also under way on a Basque strategy against violence against children and adolescents that will address the problems of inappropriate use of digital technologies. Mrs Artolazabal has already made this clear in her speech at the inquiry on 26 November this year. But my parliamentary group, the Basque Socialists, are aware that technology is moving very quickly and that is why it is particularly important and valuable to deepen the need for training in educational spaces, also in the training of family members and in the training of our children so that our children learn to have their own autonomy, networks improving their experience in a secure way. It is essential to have these tools, but it is also important to know the tools we have to be able to move safely, and that is why we have been working on this line and will continue to work on it. In addition, this is in line with the recommendations that Unicef made in this year's report. That is why I am satisfied with the agreement also reached with the proposing group in this initiative, because I believe that it is in line with what I have already indicated in my speech and that it is also in line with everything that we are presenting and putting forward today's various groups in this House in this area and I believe it contains important commitments to continue to make progress in this area and it reflects the need to update the materials that citizens have at their disposal in a very broad way, which I am not going to go into detail now because I do not have time. And also, taking into account different profiles, which is important not only from the point of view of the profile of children and adolescents, so that they can make that use safe, responsible and critical, so that they can take advantage of all the benefits they acquire from the use of the digital world, but also that they do so with responsibility and knowledge that will ensure their security. And also the profile of the parents who have to play that role as digital companions, as we do in so many different facets of the lives of our children and adolescents. It also includes the need for an awareness-raising, awareness-raising and important information campaign. I believe that at heart we are all the groups that have intervened, as I have said, we fully agree on many of the issues that I have said. It separates us with the Elkarrekin group We can take them out. We've collected a lot of proposals, a lot of commitments. They felt that they had to go on the other hand, but I believe that in substance and in their speech and in many of the points of their proposal, they also fully agree with what is contained in the compromise amendment, which is why I would invite them to vote in favour of it, because I believe that it is positive to continue to move forward. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u66	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Juez's word is yours. [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen and members of the Parliament, good noon to all. I'm very worried about the things we're looking at today, and I'm really worried about being a teenager's mother. And I must confess that in my house this subject is the reason of many argumentes, and I suppose it will be. And I'll tell you, like an anecta, that I was alone at home, preparing to speak to you in a room, and that I'd heard my daughters talking about the hours and the hours of the exercise of a mobile discussion. A few days ago, a member of a committee of the legislature gave an example of his family to explain his subject well, and another member of the legislature replied that he did not like to refer to the model or personal data of his family. Well, I think the first attitude shows its approach. And, as I said, we have two teenagers at home, and my husband and I, at least during the week, mobile or digital technology, have a limited time for new technology, and their answer is always the same: that we are the sharpest parents in the world, and that other people have no such bounds as this or that. You know what's better or easier at home with others. Mrs. Martinez Axpe, in your interaction with the chief physician at the control meeting, said that few parents care for their children's nets and spend the time using them. Of course, it's respectable in the attitude of these parents, but it's troubling me. This is a silent threat, a secret threat to me, and it is the responsibility of our parents to help and control our children. I don't know if it's the right word to control or take care of it, look, observe, or denounce it. And who hasn't seen it, you've mentioned one of these things, this scene, for instance in a restaurant with a mobile mother and a father and children. Or the children better eat better, or their parents put cartoons on the tables for dinner more calmly. Well, we see that, and sometimes we have to do mea culpa. The experts say that children and teenagers, especially children, are adaptable as plasline and they suck what they see as spons and hear what they hear, what to see, what to learn. I think because we're their type, we're often at home, because we're working with the computer, or we're looking at things in the cell, with technology. And we grown-ups, too, must be careful. And all this is a social problem, harassing problems, health problems, sleeping problems, studying problems, behavior problems. Digital technology has benefits, but also threats and risks. And, besides, they often put the earpieces to use them, which also causes hearing problems. In school, they use technology, digital technology, schools, and homework. The latter also adds hours to this dependence. And the impression of Unicef's technology you're talking about is that the relationship, the risks, and the opportunity is reported that the 29th of the teenagers acknowledge that there is some measure or limit in the house. I think the data is too small. Perhaps it may be bigger because some teenagers don't want to admit that there are measures in their houses, but it's a disturbing fact. I think that parents must grow and educate our children, and I have said more than once that we are too much burdened in administration and education. It's our responsibility to raise and educate them, and to give them academic formation in the schools, and to increase that education we give them, to complete it, but the responsibility is our parents'. And I think that sometimes we look elsewhere for want of time, or, well, there may be many reasons. Here has been mentioned, and I absolutely agree that prevention is also a axis in this case. Prevention through help, through information, and through formation. And the chief physician told you, but I'm not going to mention that Mrs. Sánchez said they're preparing new guides, that she's working on digital technology for 2015 and that's how we have to keep going. The Grocer of the Grocers' department is very involved and it's all fun, and with such enterprises we're helping and strengthen the job. And Mrs. Sánchez has also mentioned that all these undertakings are to assist the families in the fourth part of the Fourth Plan. that they work on the axis. And as the chief physician explained, the object of this plan is to promote the welfare of children and teenagers, and even to guarantee them. And the right to use the future Basque Act for information and information and communication technology for their rights is to be used. Mr. Angulo, here is the right of children and teenagers, here is el interes superior del menor y de la menor; here it will be performed, and this will be useful for reflect and practice all this. In addition to the law, the strategy of attacking and preventing violence against children and teenagers is preparing, and this strategy will cultivate the benefits and dangers of the use of digital technology, important. And we can't forget that chance was created in the pandema. In this matter, as I have said, the effort is great. The Chief of the Artolary Department's effort... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... That he was born in the pandemia, too. In this matter, as I have said, the effort is great. The chief physician's effort, work, equality, justice, and Society Political work, but we can't quit the work of many other departments of joys. You have a lot of work to do with digital technology through your interaction. The Board of Education, the Security Department, the Consultants, the Medical Department, works like unsubstantial addictions on the environment, and even economic developments, from the organization of Cybersecurity. Every one has a common end, every one has the same end. I believe that we who have considered this subject here today, or have discussed it, have the same purpose, that children and teenagers should help, to form their parents, and to protect our children by this formation. It's true that children and teenagers are mostly more skilful in using these technology than we do, but, as you said before, as you have spoken before me, we must take advantage of the benefits and prevent the risk from prevention. And I don't want to forget the economy effort. I'm sure it'll be like that in 2022 year's budgets. And Mrs. Martinez Axpe, thanks to you, you gave them to me, and so must I, because we signed the middle course. I think our aim and our approach have been similar from the beginning, we have had to cultivate some details, but we have a middle course, and I think it will be very good for our children and our teenagers. While we're still the biggest parents in the world, in case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u68	Thank you, ma'am. Passing over the uncorrected teams, the word is Carmelo Barrio, representing the popular team of Basques.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u69	Thank you, President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Many things have already been said about this issue raised by Mrs Martinez. We share with all groups in this House the concern about the effects of the inappropriate use of technology, especially that use that has between children and adolescents and that has already been described in the interventions. We are aware that it is generating different problems, also mentioned, addiction problems, inappropriate behaviors, bullying, indeed, and other problems, including health problems. We, as you have already said, and my colleague Mr Gil has also said on other occasions in this House, are concerned about the problem of bullying, which is not limited to the field of technology, but which makes it worse. Because it allows harassment that is not limited only to the physical sphere of the school, to that harassment of those characteristics that you all know through social networks. But the truth is that not only bullying, there are very serious problems associated with that abuse of technology in this case and that it is necessary to analyze, at least. We agree that the Government should take letters on the matter and initiate initiatives to reduce such unwanted consequences, such as studies or the publication of guides. Well, that's what we're talking about, that's where the amendment, the original initiative, came from. Well, well, they're already underway, and even though we need continuous updates, we think it's the way to go, to update and, of course, to get to know those technologies and the impact it has on the population. Technology defines a new framework for social interaction, which is changing and which requires us all to put in place new mechanisms for adapting and adapting to that changing and constant reality. Technology itself is neither bad nor good in that general sphere, but it is an instrument that we must learn to use. There they are, in the new technologies they remain forever with their advantages and with the risks that we must be able to identify, and let us hope that we can do so; although this whole technological world, this whole world of social networks, runs very fast and, of course, requires serious and clear action. When technology has such a direct impact on the education of children and adolescents, then we need to redouble our efforts to clarify guidance and help mechanisms that enable them to learn how to use it safely. And this responsibility rests above all with parents, who in some cases are not fully aware of the importance of educating also in digital environments and who require the Government to invest in awareness-raising campaigns, in materials to help do this work. Some things have already been done, but we all assume that much remains to be done, and I say again, because of the constant break-in of new technologies. We understand that the amendment by the groups supporting the Government has somewhat recomposed the initiative. As the motion was drafted we saw a certain interventional character, in organizing families, saying what they can do or not do, establishing what is right and what is wrong. I mean, he was talking about creating digital content, and so on. Let's see... we're talking about other things, other forms of action, not creating digital content in a pedagogical way to make it usable. That will be other issues that need to be done, so we would see a little bit of an excess, even if it is, and it would probably be in the wording, a certain interventionist risk. The original motion has been transformed into the whole amendment, which we consider to be much more appropriate in terms of its drafting, in terms of the drafting of that guide. And, of course, in the fact that it's not a matter of creating... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... that we consider much more correct in its drafting, in the preparation of that guide. And, of course, in seeing that it is not a question of creating digital content and that it is the Basque Government that is responsible for that, but that it is something else; it is helping to neutralize, to control, to see, to know, above all, what the impact of these new technologies is. We saw that pretending that the department created digital content because I don't know, I wasn't going to avoid things. There is another type of action to be taken, another type of issue that we see in relation to the compromise amendment as it has become more defined. The characteristics of the guides, which have to contain these guides, and that, well, the profile of children and adolescents and the profile of parents are identified there. But they don't have to be consumers of digital content created by the government. It is clear that work must be done in this regard. We have already seen that the first point of his initial motion called on the Government to carry out an assessment, well, that seems to have disappeared, and a diagnosis of the Internet tools and resources used by children. We are seeing that there are already numerous studies on this, but children are basically entering everything, and adolescents, and to do so it is only necessary to spend money, to know and to know, for the whole society to become aware. Without going further, the study of Unicef, which has been repeatedly cited, has been mentioned, the analysis of violence against children and adolescents in the digital environment of Save the Children. Because we have to say one thing clearly, and we have to do it in partnership. In collaboration with other administrations, in collaboration with our environment, with Europe, with the Government of Spain, with all administrations, this problem is not confined to Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, it is a global problem, not even Spain, it is a global problem. The children in Euskadi assure them that they do not behave differently from those in other regions on these issues, that is a shared problem, and, of course, because we will have to analyse all those experiences and do our own. And act not only from the scope of the responsibility of Councilwoman Artolazabal, but a global scope. In this case, if it can be European, it is better than local or global. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u70	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Martinez Axpe, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u71	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Angulo Sánchez said, well, this isn't just something for parents, is it? Or for families, and we absolutely agree. Education must also take its share, because digitalization is everywhere, and has an enormous weight in education. I'm sorry the Biltex isn't here to discuss it to him, too. Then, to answer you said "intervencionist," Mr. Carmelo Barri. And I didn't quite understand what that means. We don't tell anyone what to consume or what to consume. What we're saying is that they have to help their parents to be digital companions, because they're the models they do what they do. And that's what you need educational and recommendations for. Well, of course, I'll be brief. In the digital environment, we can't let children and teenagers wander. Moving often presents themselves as though they were presents, and mobile gifts aren't. Or if they're gifts, they're not toys. They've got everything on the phone, it's all a little pocket computer. And right there, the Internet world is open across the street. And in this we ought to be careful, but not to be afraid; benefits and injuries must be explained to them; always by the hands of parents, or families, by the hands of guardians. As we teach them not to give personal information to strangers, so as not to show them private photographs, to treat strangers with respect, to share their society, not to believe what anyone tells us, to ask questions. All this, what we do in real life, we must lead to a digital environment. As in real life we teach them to be safe children and teenagers, conscientious and critical, we must now show them to be so in the digital environment. And what we're talking about today is located in the reality of 2021 Internet and social networks. In a few minutes, digitalization is taking on speed, I don't know what it's going to be able to connect to a mobile phone and what more use it will have, and how we can regulate the algorithms. And a long, many variables in this equation. And as the digital revolution progresses, our responsibility will be to adapt itself to this revolution. Children and teenagers, and parents and families, prepared to be powerful and digital citizens. We haven't a good challenge. Just thank the members of the government for the agreement. And I hope from now on, in other intervals, and in this matter, more settlements... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... the members by agreement, and I hope from now on we shall make some more arrangement in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez Axpe. Together, Podemus-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u73	Thank you, ma'am. Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. Good noon, everyone. It is true, Mrs González, that we have the same objective. I believe that all of us who have participated here have that objective, which is to ensure the health of adolescents, girls and children who participate in the Internet or in the digital space. But we do not have the same path, nor do we give equal importance to how to carry out these actions. In the face of parliamentary groups that support the Government, which attach greater importance to the weight of family education and to the importance that the family has in this respect, we, from our group, believe that it has to be from education, from the administrative level, where we also have to share in this education. Let's just say he's a kid grabbed by his hands, both by the family and by the administration. For there comes a time when many families do not have the capacity to educate their children in the digital sphere, because they themselves do not know how to behave in that space. It is a new space, it is a very changing space, and it has to be from, in this case, from philosophy, since we are creating critical spirits, from where we have to take letters in this matter. The guides will help, but they will not reach all; there will be a large percentage of the population that does not even read them, that does not even look at them. And that percentage is going to participate in the Internet, it's going to participate in social media as if nothing happened. And that's not true. There is a certain danger, there is a great danger, in which you can no longer distinguish what is real from what is false. And the Administration has to be there to manage that space. It can't be a free space, without management. And it's not interventionism, as Mr. Barrio said. It is to help young people think, to think from that critical spirit, to analyze situations and to take the path themselves that they want to choose, whether they want to expose themselves or not, but to know the risks they run and the risks in the future. Because everything that happens on the Internet is going to stay forever. I mean, the picture you're gonna be walking at 13, 14, 15 is gonna be there when you're 60, or when you're a public office, like my case may be. Until recently I could have a media exposure and now I have another. For all this people do not know him and we must create that consciousness. I very much agree with Mrs Martinez's metaphor for the children on the street. I think it's very similar. We have to guide them, but we have to guide them among all, not just the family. There is also the Administration and it has to pick up the witness and do its part.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u74	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez won't speak. Eubertarians, Mrs. Juez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u75	Can you hear me? Yes, this way, if you'll excuse me. Ez nuen hitza hartu behar, bathe Angulo jauna, Mr Angulo, I did not say that we give more or less importance to family education than to school education. If I have said something it is my personal opinion, but I believe, and we believe from the Government, and the facts are proof, that either the academic training or the help that the other services of the Basque Government can administer are as important as family education. But I do believe that the primary responsibility is our – of parents, mothers, guardians, adults – and academic training and what administrations can help is something complementary in education, not academic training. But, well, that's my point. And I think it is quite clear the involvement of Councilwoman Artolazabal's department, but of the whole Basque Government. Because in my first speech I said that the Department of Education, Health, Security, Economic Development, Kontsumobide are involved in this issue. I believe that all the departments are working together, and this demonstrates the involvement of this Basque Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Juez. The Basque Popular-Ciudados isn't going to talk... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u77	End of discussion, we'll vote for EH Collect, the Basque Socialists, and the Middle Amendment signed by Eucabertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 72; supporters of the party, 66; contraries, 0; abstaining, 6; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0;
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u78	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. At this point I interrupt until 3:00 a.m. The meeting was interrupted at one and thirty-six in the morning. At sixteen o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again. [[Start of tape 39]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u79	Good afternoon. We'll go back to the whole meeting. This is your word, Mr Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u80	[[Microphone Off spoke]] which has been... well, we had brought it two more times, because it was also attempted to improve some of the consensus that had been worked out at first through the interventions and proposals of the Ararteko, and other reports that have been coming out in the last few weeks. But, well, we have a consensus – which I will explain later – on four points, and then there are also three other points which, in our view, are very important, which we from our parliamentary group will continue to work towards. But, on this occasion, we have failed to convince the groups that support the Government of the need to incorporate them. But, anyway, I do want to thank the groups, all the groups, for their willingness to negotiate. And also on behalf of Isa González, who is the parliamentarian who should be carrying this point and not me, who I am merely a substitute today, but well, it is up to me to carry it. I am also grateful for the willingness of all groups, both those who have signed and those who have not, to incorporate different views and views into this non-legislative proposal. Lately, for a long time, but especially since the covid arrived, for the time being to stay, at least for a season, there has been an increase in the public service services that were being done, or that are being done online. For example, the appointment for the vaccine itself, which was made in some cases by phone and had to even mark the health card number, that many people were unable. Or activate the Bak, which is a card to work with the Public Administration, which asks you for an email that a lot of people, even if it looks like a lie, don't have. The immense efforts and the yincan of actions that requires any management with Social Security. The problems, for example, that triggered the rental declaration in Bizkaia, for example, with the number of errors that were made this year, and how difficult it was to remedy them if not done online. Or, for example, even if this is not an area of public administration but which we have brought many times, the absence of a public bank that puts at your service, at the service of all citizens services both face-to-face and online, makes the banks in Euskadi lately closing branches in popular neighborhoods and in many towns of Euskadi, and that can only be operated on the Internet or at a very short time. And that even happens with Kutxabank... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ... in popular neighbourhoods and in many neighbourhoods of Euskadi, and that can only be operated on the Internet or in a very short time. And that even happens with Kutxabank. Therefore, what for many people of my generation can be a relatively easy situation to manage, for many other older people or who for different reasons have less ease in accessing online services with the Administration poses huge problems in their daily lives. Digitization is a real thing. He's here. He's here to stay. And we don't question that. Technologies are not neutral and therefore policies to manage them are not neutral either. It is therefore up to us to ensure that technologies provide an opportunity for sustainable development and for the well-being of all citizens. We thought that this was necessary, even if the agreement was partial or, in our view, could have gone much further, because we have relied on it and I believe that all the parliamentary groups have been able to hear and read different reports that alert all the problems and advantages that, for example, during the time of confinement and then had the whole subject of teleworking. How 10% of students in Euskadi were disconnected in the first weeks and first months of confinement, with all that had to do with the online administration, and not to mention that, at first too, the administration had a certain collapse because it was not sufficiently prepared to manage that avalanche of online operations. But, as in everything, there is a gap, and here we have called it a digital gap, but a digital gap that is totally intersecting. On the one hand it is an age gap, because there are generations who are not educated in new technologies, because of logical age issues, and have logically, because more difficulties than other younger generations to acquire digital skills. And in addition, one in two older people in Euskadi lacks those same skills, which we are talking about thousands and thousands of people. There's a gender gap. A gap where women have unequal access to information, education and knowledge in relation to men. And according to Unesco, this also influences factors of the geographical area, economic resources themselves, etc. And how about not, a class reason, a socio-economic reason, in which purchasing power also makes the difference to access a better or worse connection, a better or worse device, – whether it's a phone, a computer. And also, logically, there is a gap, and also in the Basque Country we have a gap in terms of access to new technologies or information technologies, rather, in rural areas. The OECD said a few months ago that technologies had helped our economies and societies to avoid total stagnation during the covid or covid crisis. But also, they had also highlighted the digital divide between countries. And most importantly, also within it. And the proposal they were making: that the future would go by progressing, narrowing those gaps. As I said, care systems, which are pre-dates for face-to-face assistance, as well as online-only services, have become widespread in recent months, in the last year and a half in Euskadi and in many parts of the world. And Ararteko commented that he has been able to generate situations of neglect and inequality that must be corrected. These are measures, telematics or remote care, which were taken, logically, forced by the circumstances, but which, for one reason or another, have also been left behind. And it's true that what we have to do, and it's kind of the goal of this non-law proposition and I think we can share, is that you have to use the technologies to get people closer to the administration and not to get them away. And that we need the administrations, the people, the official staff also to have a direct human intervention in the sense of being able to interact with the citizenry, because it is not the same thing to put a complaint through the Internet, to be able to do it in a window with someone who can explain things to you in a more direct way. Of course, this too, although not the subject of this pnl, has affected primary care in Osakidetza and the generalization of telematic assistance which, unfortunately, in the last few weeks, in the last few days, let us say, we have known that it is going to be extended and that it is going to be extended very much in time. This is something that we do not agree with at all, and that we have made proposals during these months and also the amendments to the budgets to maintain the jobs that were created in Osakidetza during this year and a half to strengthen primary care, face-to-face care in Osakidetza, which seems to us to be fundamental to the health of people in Euskadi. The Ararteko, among the first recommendations he also pointed out in his appearance, spoke of promoting a comprehensive regulation of the system of relations between the citizenry and the Basque public administration. And also a proposal that was to apply European funds, the Next Generation, to bridge the digital divide. That was in some of the proposals we made on seven points that we have been trying to negotiate with the various groups in the House, starting with something that has been left out and that we regret. We know, well, the government groups tell us that there is a diagnosis made to make a decree that will be passed recently. We thought that a specific diagnosis was needed to know the current situation of the Digital Administration and above all to incorporate an intersectoral gender perspective into it, to know factors and causes that affect this digital divide, and to identify the groups most affected by this digital vulnerability. We'll keep working on it because it's gone. And a proposal, which could also be nuanced, negotiated, changed and certainly there may be other ways of doing so, which was the proposal to create an ombudsman for people who use electronic services, either in coordination with the Ararteko, either within the Ararteko or in each public administration. We still think it's a necessary tool. The generalization of the use of telematic means for the relationship with the public administration will, logically, and is bringing, more work from citizens' claims in different services. And we think that it would be a leap forward, a qualitative leap, for Euskadi, to have a service of these characteristics that, I say again, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we thought that this could have been what we proposed other kind... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ...to have a service of these characteristics that, I say again, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we thought it might have been this that we proposed another type of service. But there has been no possibility of rapprochement with the Government there. Nor in the letter of Euskadi's digital rights. A letter from Euskadi on digital rights that we proposed to address the principles governing the rights of citizens in their relations with the Administration. We know that a decree will be passed in the coming months – I suppose – of comprehensive and multi-channel attention to citizenship and access to public services, but well, it is true that good, then, as our relationship between the government is regulated... I mean the Parliament with the government... because we have little capacity for action in the decrees adopted by the Government from Parliament. And well, indeed we would have liked it, therefore, as a gesture of good will to negotiate the contents of that decree and incorporate improvements, for that letter. But, well, we will do so with other parliamentary tools, although, well, GNPs are limited because we cannot access another amendment of the decrees in this Parliament either, but, well, that is another debate. What we have agreed on is four points, which we also think are very important, although I insist, in the other three, they would have rounded up this non-legislative proposal to make it much more complete, which is: the implementation of a digital transition strategy, also collaborating in the definition and development of all electronic services with other administrations, and ensuring quality, integral and multi-channel citizen care. That is what we want to establish, and we would like this commitment to planning specific and evaluable actions, measures and policies to be met and not just to remain in this GNP. On the other hand, the empowerment of the KZguneas seems to us to be fundamental. And the promotion of the status of public employees in the registration offices, in order to create a network of citizenship assistance, which I believe must help to bridge the gaps in this area. There is another incorporation, which is the introduction of the facilitation of the use of euskera, also in the administrative procedures processed electronically. And the last, which is the guarantee that the data held by the public administrations will be guaranteed interoperability between them, with the sole and ultimate objective of promoting life to citizens, who do not have to do the same endless procedures, and also – I believe – make life easier for the official staff of the different administrations, who have to manage these services telematically. I therefore insist that we would have liked a broader agreement; we have this one on this occasion. We wanted to bring about an agreement, because we have also been called upon to do so by various associations with which we have worked. What I also take advantage of, on behalf of my colleague Isa González and my parliamentary group, of all the work they have done on pressure, work and proposal to carry forward this GNP, in particular the Association of Jubilees for Democracy, the Association of Jubilees and Pensioners for Democracy, and other associations that have been collaborating with us in recent months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u81	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Chaus Group, Mr. Gordillo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u82	All right. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the government, Mr. lehendakari, we have you here until... working overtime until very late... members of the government. A GNP is now being discussed on measures to guarantee the rights of citizens in the digital administration, which was initially presented by the Elkarrekin Podemos group, and which, well, has finally been agreed with the government, in terms in which, well, as the representative of the proposing group has said, it remains somewhat decaffeinated. Well, they'll say it's a breakthrough; good. Finally, we will give critical support to the proposal, because indeed everything that makes progress in this sector, in this area, is important. And I believe that it is also important for an opinion to emerge from this House, and above all for the widest possible support for these kinds of issues, which I believe are absolutely necessary for the citizenry. But I would like to recall a few points, and in passing to make a small joint criticism, and also in this case to the Government itself, which has the responsibility for the implementation of these kinds of measures. Firstly, the importance of digitisation is – for all of us – well known. We are in a new era, the digital era: we communicate, educate, relate, work through networks, the Internet, electronic devices... We could say that there are three vectors or three legs in the field of digitisation: on the one hand, there is a process of digitisation also of social relations; the digitisation of what is work, training, markets, and, on the other hand, a digitisation of what is public administration. Today we will focus on the latter. History, this, we have told, and we have heard it many times in this House: we all want a modern administration, at the service of the citizenry, that will make life easier for the citizen rather than complicating him. We have already heard all this, and it is often a mantra in any kind of proposal on this subject. We have also seen how the crisis of the covid – which was mentioned earlier – highlights that the important thing is to have a truly fully digitized administration. But the two sectors: on one side of the window and on the other side of the window. In this process, we also see that there have been sectors of society, of the population, which for various reasons: because by age, by economic or social situation perhaps..., because they are at risk of being left behind, or definitely being behind. That's what's been called the digital divide. Public administrations are always very supportive of doing all kinds of activities, and promotional actions and actions. He sees that digitization is necessary. The European, national and autonomous institutions remind us of this on a regular basis: always, mechanisms must be put in place to ensure that there is a genuine digital administration that is accessible to all. We have the strategy of the European Union for e-government, invoicing and e-payments; what is also called the digital single market. We have, very important, the Digital Rights Charter of the Government of Spain, which is there, and whose content includes... [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]] ... e-invoicing and e-payments, which is also called the digital single market. We have, very importantly, the Digital Rights Charter of the Government of Spain, which is there and whose content largely includes the content of the proposal, in particular the original proposal. And then we have reports from the people's ombudsmen. We have a couple of them, which, in fact, have inspired, I understand, the proposing groups, because many of the issues were practically the paragraphs of the conclusions or recommendations of these reports by the Ombudsman, the Ararteko. On the one hand, the general recommendation of Ararteko 4/2020 of 5 November on the need to strengthen citizen attention in order to avoid harm in situations such as the covid, etc., and then very important also the report, which was actually an executive summary of a study commissioned by Rafael Jiménez Asensio, an old acquaintance of Basque institutions in these matters, entitled Digital Administration and Relations with Citizenship, its application to Basque public administrations. Well, all administrations always point to the promotion cart, but when it comes to realizing these rights, these situations, are always in case of generic clauses, generic clauses that leave in the hands of the Administration itself the fulfilment or not of these objectives. I give you, for example, Article 28, the last of the Digital Rights Charter of the Central Government, which states: "The Government shall take appropriate measures within its competence to ensure the effectiveness of this Charter". It seems almost an amendment to a total of a GNP made by the groups of the Government. That is to say, we will see and that things continue to be done as the Government can. I believe that the digitalisation of the Administration is very important for us to take it seriously and this is a subject always pending, always pending. It is very similar to the following topic, the subject of the AVE, which is always being announced and has never just become effective. But that is the next item on the agenda. As far as the digitalisation of the Administration is concerned, I understand that three types of action should be carried out or should be carried out in the main, and here are also two advisers who are directly affected by this to their departments. First of all, there should be one thing that should be how easy it is to invest, to spend on systems, programs, equipment for the Administration and to invest in spaces on the other side of the window that allow all people access to electronic and digital services. Let's just say this is the easy thing. In principle, spending money to do that sort of thing is easy, especially when you have two of the Basque administration's own means, and then each outlaw has its own, and then some large municipalities also have something similar. But it seems that Basque administrations are being hit hard, we are being hit hard. Secondly, easy use of digital applications and certificates must be ensured. I used to say Mr. Zatón very well, listen, there are people who will have email because they automatically create you an email almost anywhere, Administration, etc., but you have to know how to use it. And above all, because there are people that this costs for different reasons. And the digital certificates. Digital certificates in this House there are lawyers in practice or who have been until recently, and they know quite well that the issue of digital certificates, especially with the Administration of Justice, is one thing we are on it, we are on it, but it is still a matter of which there is still plenty. In Spain there are different digital certificates, then because sometimes it lacks interoperability, then it depends on which system, in the case of Justice you connect, you have to go through one system or another. We already know that and I believe that this is something that must be avoided by the administrations, because one thing must not be forgotten, although here we believe the opposite, in the eyes of the citizen what there is is an Administration, a Public Power. There may be different levels, etc., but there is only one Administration, and when administrative litigation is brought, it is that there is always only one Administration in the citizen's face. The initiative that is presented today, as I told you before, remains or may be somewhat decaffeinated, the proposer himself has recognized it, but man, it is understandable that by taking it forward, because it has yielded enough initially, especially on an issue that the Government never likes, what the Government doesn't like, because they set deadlines. So, of course, what disappeared from point four, which was very interesting, that of interoperability, the deadlines. Some initiatives have already been put forward here, some of which have even been for me to defend in this legislature, concerning the digitisation of justice, for example. And what we see is that it is necessary to set deadlines, set deadlines, this is like the duties to a student, or the jobs and the tasks, if you don't set a deadline because in the end there are no incentives to do so. I mean, it's important to set timelines to do... but reasonable and credible deadlines. Listen, because we are making a milestone schedule, with such a timing, because on that date this will be the case, on that other date this will be the case, and especially where there is also a budgetary commitment, which curiously on this issue, on any other administration, this would be a problem the budgetary commitment, but it is that the problem of our administration is just the opposite, which we leave without implementing these headings, which or part of these headings, which unfortunately is a problem. The Administration has no incentive to rush on this issue, it has no incentive, it does so in good will, by political commitment, but it has no incentive. What incentives has the private sector, man, profit, logically, consequence, because the private sector, e-commerce is very advanced, the subject of e-commerce is very advanced. And instead, the public part, the e-government, is in diapers. That's why, because there's no incentive. We do not set time limits, we may not be able parliaments to demand with sufficient force and determination these kinds of issues from governments and then the improvements in the administration, which are necessary, do not arrive. That's the big problem. What would be the conclusion and I'll finish. Look, the conclusion is that any initiative to better ensure people's access to the administration will, in principle, be supported by our group. In this case it is logically critical support, why, because man, there are very important elements and we must recognize it to the proposing group and to the groups that finally support it through the transactional, but we pass the usual, we lack time limits and if we lack time limits we really lack serious planning. That is why we give critical support to the initiative. It is a step forward or it can be a step forward, but we will have to remain vigilant so that the Government does not abandon this issue which is so important. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u83	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. The representative of the EH team, Mrs Martínez Axpe is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening to all of you again. Today on digitalization... [[End of tape 42]] [[Begin of tape 43]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon again, all of you. Today we have things about digitalization. In the morning, we are treating of children and teenagers and now of the community in general and of their digital administration. In the time of the digital transition, it is necessary to guarantee digital rights to the people, and to destroy, as far as possible, all the rifts of all sorts. All the digital cracks with COVID-19 have increased, and the steps to digitalization have been reduced to the rights of many citizens. There have been several rifts to be drawn, and there are still, and the means of avoiding them all in one way or the other must be placed by public administration. Between these digital breeds there has been a geographical rift; it has not been the same to live in a town, because the activity has been well established, or to dwell in villages, near the mountains, because it does not reach and does not yet reach. There's also some social rationalization. The time for holding devices was not the same as the social state at which it was connected; it was not the same. Even the crack in the Genes. Even women in digitalization are not in the same situation with men. Even the crack of age has been cut off. There have been only some cracks, our masters, and there are many times the services we give them, if they are digitally. Some have capacity, others don't have, and according to age, they have their rights, digital rights. Another crack is the crack of people who function in multiplicity. Although many do not think, they also sail with multiplicity, they stay on the Internet, and often do not secure their own digital rights. The blind, those who do not see, the deaf, who do not hear, who have the limits of movement, have also the rifts in this sense. And everyone has a right to receive the services given by public administration properly. And apart from these cracks, the Administration has to guarantee the right of citizens who want to be digitally related or not connected. The interrogator explains in the report that this right was not guaranteed in COVID-19del, and that no law necessarily exists in relation to what we are to be digitally related. That connection with public administration must also be maintained analogical. This report of the interrogators has given raw results in the digital administration status and the digital rights of the citizens. The purpose of the study is mentioned in the entrance, which has contributed to it, and we can see exactly here that the company has participated in certain departments of the Eucomunes, as well as the stock of the Opinions, and that the three Basque Capitals, and six villages, but only six villages. Barakaldo, Gecho, Irun, Zamudius, Schoris, and Ladius. People are a small sample, considering all the issues that are to be studied. Moreover, in such cases, when such incests are filled, these administrations are commonly those which have most consciousness about digitalization. So we may say that the works here present will be limited to these institutions. Seeing what the sample of this study is, and in order to secure the digital rights of the people, it would be to make a deeper diagnosis to find out what is the proper situation, to find out what the photograph is. We believe this work to be oriental, and it is to be valued, but it would be necessary to know what is the real situation of typindale, which is the case in the organization as a neutral institution. We have read in the report that the average rating of the electronic Administration has been the case. Always limited to this sample, limited to that specified sample. The manager of the records, thegestor de exedientes, we do not know how many institutions it is, for instance, the file manager has been filed in how many townships. Some of the institutions which have done this study have admitted that they have not, and we ought to know what we are talking about, even in the small councils, and where there is no time for the planning of this digital transition. On account of Interoperability, Interoperacy is one of the greatest privations. And without interoperability, systems don't understand each other, and there's no transmission of information, which means we're asking and saving people's information, compromiseing the digital administration. It would be well to know, for instance, that the amount of interoperaability is also in the several Basque institutions. Only one electronic file. Institutions that participate in the study have agreed that the email files are not implemented, or that the level they have is low or medium. Registro de tempoeramentos must have been made for 2020, but it hasn't been done yet. Public officials are very low, and, well, to cut off the data, the use of the digital administration of the community, they still want paper. Those are the results from the report. After the operation, there were some recommendations in the report of the Ardare, and we made one of these recommendations... [[End of tape 43.]] [[Begin of tape 44.]] ... After the evaluation, a few recommendations appeared in the report of the Ardira, and we made one of these recommendations. And so we implemented our correction. Looking at the middle path, we can see the four points that appear there: the first is to establish a digital transition strategy, and the second to the eucalyptic. We added this, at any rate, to the eucalyptus that we required, that the strategic measures which excite the use of support should be established, and that the administrative administration should be encouraged in a language which is accessible to the people. That's what you get in the second place. The third, the KZ center's, is already up. And we're glad, because in the report, we need some centers, but if we use the resources we have, the CZC centers are there, and we have to make sure people get useful to digitally able people, and that's where we can see them. And the fourth is about the interoperacy I have spoken of, right? And even there, we think it's necessary, and we see it well. Among things that have not been received, there was mention of a digital Ar interrogator. It wasn't a digital intermediary, another manager who would be under the intermediary, one like a delegate for protection of data. We don't see it so necessary, we'd even sign it without it. But there is another thing, which we saw very necessary, and very important, and therefore we have not signed it, because this point, which I am about to explain now Nikolao, does not appear to us. This last point is to encourage the approval of the letter of digital Basque rights. Here we spoke of the rights and duties of the citizens in the region of communication and digital interaction, and of the knowledge of the mechanism of protection in the format that is accessible and intelligible to all the citizens, giving special attention to the populations most affected. We see this necessary. And in the end, the negotiation wasn't possible, the diagnosis didn't even come in, and, well, because this was an important point, we thought we might not be involved in the agreement. I know, Mr. Álvarez has mentioned to me that there is such a decree as this, and that it is now in public sight, but well, as Mr Martíne has mentioned: The decree will come, and we would like to take part in it, because we really think it's a very important point. And just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Galástegui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u87	Yeah. Thank you, President. Good afternoon, President. Consejras, señorías, good evening to all. Well, today we are discussing this non-law proposal of Podemos, whose justification and proposition come literally from the study, which does not report, study of the Ararteko entitled Digital Administration and Relations with Citizenship. Its application to Basque public administrations, which, prepared by Professor Rafael Jiménez Asensio, was published on September 10. As expressed in the above study, I quote: "This study is fed, on the one hand, by massive information derived from production, both intellectual and documentary, as well as strategic and normative; and, on the other hand, by the responses to a questionnaire that refers to 17 Basque administrations. And what it aims to do is to help the Basque public authorities identify problems and seek solutions to improve the relationship between citizens and the public administration from a digital point of view." I believe that we all agree that there has been a very important breakthrough in everything that has to do with e-government, and that the needs faced by COVID-19 have had an important accelerating effect on digitalisation, both in the public and private sectors. But the truth is that I believe that we all agree that it is still necessary to promote, guarantee and match the use of electronic means in order to channel the participation of citizens in administrative activity. And all this promoting proximity and interoperability, which is what we've been talking about every time we talk about this. Indeed, much remains to be done, ladies and gentlemen, but the truth is that the new scenarios are dynamic and changing, but we do not start from nothing, from absolute zero. On the contrary, I must remind you, I will always do so, that the socialist government of the Lehendakari Patxi López has already made an important advance in the construction of an innovative, open and participatory Administration to respond to the needs of Basque citizens. And this issue is part of the nuclear issues that have been taken up in the government agreements signed by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra in these last two legislatures. And the result of these agreements, and in compliance with both government programs, has been working in an unceasing way. In this regard, I would like to remind you, for example, of the Strategic Plan for Governance and Public Innovation, PEGIP, 2020, which has developed the foundations of an administrative culture based on transparency, effectiveness, participation and evaluation of results. That plan must be remembered by a great many of you, because it was presented in this Parliament on February 7, 2018. And they have a final evaluation... [[End of tape 44.]] [[Start of tape 45]] ... That plan has to be remembered by many of you, because it was presented in this Parliament on February 7, 2018. And they have a precious final evaluation hanging in Irekia for a long time, and there they will be able to see that progress has been made in this area on a sustained basis. By going to the literal content of the initiative, I have to tell you that, as you know, the new Government's 2030 Strategic Plan for Governance and Public Innovation is currently being developed, which will establish a digital transition strategy to move towards a public administration that offers quality, comprehensive and multi-channel citizenship attention, and encourages the use of electronic media. And there you have many things that were claimed in the original initiative. And of that the exact content of the first point of our compromise amendment, which is the one we have signed, and I think it contains exactly a lot of the things that appeared in the original initiative. On the other hand, we also agree on the need to enhance the role of KZgunea in the training of digital citizenship skills. There'd be more to it. In which an item is provided from the Next Generation funds. And we also agree on the promotion of the status of public employees of the Offices of Registration Assistance, in order to establish a network of citizen assistance to overcome the various gaps that exist. And that is exactly what we propose in the second point of our compromise amendment. Although something else has to be said here, we do indeed have the figure of the authorized official – created, said by way, by an order of the then public administration adviser of the socialist government Idoia Mendia – which allows any citizen to authorize that official to carry out the procedures he needs on his behalf. Remember when I'm talking. On the other hand, we also see opportune to increase the number of services offered on the NISAE platform, the interoperability and security node of the Euskadi Administrations, where all the administrations and entities of the Basque public sector implement the exchange of data. Data, not archives, which was what came in the original initiative between them, and with the rest of the administrations, incorporating all available interoperability options. With regard to the bill being requested, it should be noted that, as everyone has stated here in full session, the Government has a project for comprehensive and multi-channel care of citizens and access to public services through electronic means, which has been open to prior consultation since 9 November. And as for the advocate of users of electronic services, it doesn't seem necessary, does it? Because from any study a report is drawn and from that report an initiative is presented, in the end, so that nothing seems to be done. And this isn't a report, I insist, it's a study. And it's an Ararteko study that has a lot of value, actually, but that's what it is, a study. And from there, I do not think that any user's advocate is needed, among other things, because it already exists, which is Ararteko himself, and which, by the way, is very well taken advantage of by parliamentary groups, as it cannot be otherwise. And finally, to say that we also have this year's budget, 2020, the department's 2020 budget proposal, which clearly shows that almost 50% is going to finance, from the department, almost 50% is going to finance the modernisation and innovation and implementation of e-government, digital transformation and innovative entrepreneurship. And we have items relating, for example, to the actions PCTI, 3,100.000 euros; KZgunea, 4,400.000 euros; and the fundamental part that the department has planned to combat the wage gap, which amounts to almost 7,000,000 euros. More games for sign language interpreter, subtitled videos, text reading or network speaker, easy reading and accessible browsing. And all these data have to know, about all the proposers, because they are answers extracted from questions raised after the plenary appearances by the proposer group of this initiative itself. But, all this said, what I believe at this time is basically to congratulate us on the agreement. I would put you much more in value than you, Mr Martínez, basically because if we go to the micro, at the very least, we don't know how many paragraphs and I don't know how many points to four. But in those four, at last, a very important part of what was being requested is concentrated, and it is also a very important part of what is already being done. And then, finally, put on medallions, because this agreement is much better than what you have valued in this rostrum. And apart from congratulating us on the agreement and thanking the proposing group for its willingness to do so, I also thank the other groups that have expressed their support for it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Eubertarians, Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief physician, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. Today, as I have said, we are able to discuss the other proposition as described by Podemos in this case in order to guarantee the rights of the citizens of digital administration. We have to admit the theme is very interesting, and it has so many shades. So when I say my word, I'll try to explain our team's point of view. And, to begin with, we must confess that digital administration has produced a change of paradigm, not only in the manner in which public services are given, but in the conduct of public administrations itself, in the usual manner, and that it has established the foundations of their digital function. So we have several Basque tools in this case to contact the locals with the Administration. As for the rest, we have a special website for public requests, communications and notifications for the citizen, we have my local folder digital, or an electronic delegation and register... [[End of tape 45]] [[Start of tape 46.]] ... In order to transmit communications and notifications to the people, we have my digital folder, or the delegation and electronic register, not to mention many others. The Department of Public Governance and Self-Government itself has a Vice-Advisory of Institutional Relations where we find the Directorates of Attention to Citizenship and Digital Services or also that of Open Government. Among its functions are the analysis and evaluation of actions and projects in the field of public governance or the promotion of technologies that support the processing of procedures through different channels; this also means digital channels. And this also shows how the commitment of the Government and the Department is determined towards the digital administration and its development. The origin of this enterprise today has been mentioned by other groups, in a report made by the Ardria, when the Administration is called Digital and citizen relations, and about what was published in September. And in this, the intermediary, which is directly taken from its Web page, shows that the electronic Administration option is a window. He is grateful to the efforts of the public administrative, and he proposes several actions. "Alalas de statuses propuestas las vimos armladas en momento en la iniciativa, original de Together Podemos hodemos debatimus, y tras muchas convesaciones, un par de vegas que qued qued penditente debatate posto, los hemos velado elgado hoscando homodo ala, elero transfera." I am going to devote more time to it than you have devoted from the opposition groups to what we have agreed and not so much to what we have not agreed, which I will also go on to explain the point of view of our group. And so, at the first point, we mention this Strategic Plan for Governance, Public Innovation and Digital Government, the PGIPGB 2030, which is currently in the process of being concluded. That is to say, that phase of contrast with citizenship has already passed, of diagnosis also of what situation we are in. And, therefore, this is directly related to the request for that diagnosis that was made and that was left out of this agreement. Therefore, from our point of view, if for a plan with a 2030 horizon a diagnosis has already been made for everything that encompasses the Digital Administration, we believe that it would be in the same way to include another point of another parallel diagnosis around it. We are therefore talking about a digital transition strategy that we want to make us move towards a multi-channel public administration, which is the ultimate goal of everything related to the digitalization of the administration. That it also offers citizens comprehensive care of quality in all its channels, and that is the real challenge: that the attention offered to the citizen, to the citizen is equal or of the same quality on the telematics route, on the digital route, as on the face-to-face route. This plan will also be the guide that, as I say, will be used by 2030 to move forward on digital administration. It will set objectives, actions, measures, identify challenges, and also quantify how to measure them. We therefore believe that it will be an ambitious plan and that we will know about it later in Parliament. Another focus of the transactional agreement is, in this case, on the KZGune network, which has recently turned 20 in the service of the citizenry. In this case, helping to mitigate this digital divide that we have commented on many times and also to promote the use of new technologies through the 241 centres that are spread throughout the Euskadi. In this sense, and in relation to this point, the request we make in this same point concerning the KZGune network is that, seeing the opportunity that exists through the Next Generation 21-26 funds to enhance the role of these is what we request, as well as a promotion also – and has been mentioned by other groups – of the figure of the public employees of the Offices of Assistance to the Registry, which are those persons who, as long as the citizenry so wishes, may be empowered to perform procedures on behalf of the citizen. And, of course, we believe that it is a figure that may not be known so much from doors out of the Administration and that it must be valued for its use. On the other hand, we stand on the side of a solid eucalyptic relationship, and we place it in value, and the road to promote to the digital Euskara area for 20212024 times. This page was introduced in May 2021, and it is a document we have to put into value and use. As for the digital contents of the device to promote the use of the Basque Council in the digital environment, the eucalyptic tool, in short, is intended to give a view of the suspension and eucatic resources. So, in our opinion, it would be the instrument to put it in value, and so we expressed it in the intermediate agreement. Eta laugarren scores, lastly, we talk about transversalizing interoperability. And as Mrs Gallástegui has rightly said, here we did the correction because in the original initiative we were talking about interopering files, and what we really have to do is interopering data. The NISAE Platform, which has also been mentioned, exists for this purpose in Euskadi. And what we believe is, in any case, what we propose at this point, is to try to transversal interoperability through this platform, to reach out to the maximum number of possible administrations so that they interoper, as I say, those data and also to expand the catalogue and number of services that are also offered through them. In short, I believe that we will all agree that we must give impetus to the digital administration, which is the objective and challenge that the Basque Government has endorsed for this parliamentary term. Of course, there is work to be done, if not today we would not be reaching this agreement. And we are sure that every day we work with that goal of improvement on the horizon. We don't have any work to do, but it's just fun that made the challenge to digitalize, and that's where we'll all agree. Herritarrei Administrationarekin harremantan jartzeko baliabideak eta aukerak ematen jarraitu behar dugu, éta, horretarako, gai izan behar dugu zerbitzu publikoak inguruna digitala egokitzeko, hauen kalitari eutsiz; éta hor dago, lehen esan bezala, benetak errornka. We must therefore continue to offer citizens means and means for their relationship with the Administration, to be able to adapt face-to-face services, face-to-face public services to the digital environment, maintaining their quality. And that is where we believe the real challenge lies, and in achieving those goals is where we have to put all our efforts and all our efforts. Eta, amaitzeko, aipatutako ez ditutu alus putu horiek aipamena egingo diet. On the one hand, the diagnosis was mentioned that has not been included, I think I have explained it earlier, but we believe that if already for the PGIPGB it has been made with the 2030 horizon a wide... [[End of tape 46]] [[Start of tape 47]] ... the diagnosis was mentioned that has not been included, I think I have explained it earlier, but we believe that if for the PGIPGB it has already been made with the 2030 horizon a broad diagnosis of what is the situation around digitalization and digital administration in Euskadi, we believe that to include another point about making another diagnosis of little worth or it would be to redundancy again in the same thing or to allocate resources and time to something that, of course, from our point of view, would already be done. There has also been talk of the creation of an office for the digital rights of citizens, and in this case I agree with Mrs Gallástegui. There is already a figure that is Ararteko, of course, we are not in favour of doubling those that would be their functions, and in any case, if that is the case, what could be proposed is to strengthen this department, but of course not to create a parallel entity that would do its functions, because for this it is Ararteko himself. Finally, there has been talk of the Euskadi Digital Bill of Rights. In this case, from our point of view, we also did not consider it appropriate to include it as a draft multi-channel care decree is being developed. Several of you have commented on this. A draft decree that is in prior consultation, therefore accessible to any person, and that will of course be the regulatory framework that guarantees the rights of citizens and also the duties of the Administration in their relationship with each other, and therefore we believe that giving them or giving them a regulatory rank, as it would be through a decree, has no doubt more effect than that which may have a letter of digital rights, as happened in the Government of the State and which, after all, does not cease to be a role in which, as Mr Gordillo has mentioned, also on some of the points are still quite generic, without going into too many points. Therefore, we are more committed to the development of this decree, which is the tool that guarantees the rights and duties of citizens and administration in the digital sphere, and that would be a bit of our point of view. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u90	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. In a group that has no corrections, MistA mustn't speak. So, not even if we're going to the answer shift, Podemos, Euskal Popular-Ciudados, Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u91	Briefly, Madam President and ladies and gentlemen. Well, since there is a certain consensus, I will make some points that I would like to make, for example, this of... man, reject the user's advocate saying that there is an Ararteko, because the same would apply to the assistance of Ararteko himself (?) Spanish Ombudsman, but anyway, I'm not going to get in here. I would like to stress that, since there is so much agreement or consensus in this House on this issue, I encourage all groups to support our amendments to the law on the public sector and those we are going to table for the Basque Civil Service Act, where we collect these kinds of initiatives and I also believe that they have improved considerably. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u92	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. The representative of the EH team, Mrs Martínnez is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u93	Me, too, short. Just to say thank you for trying to do it to Mr. Martíni. And from here also, thanks to Ms. González Rodríguez, I made the previous negotiations with him, which turned back twice, and he himself was obliged and quickly recovered. And just to give him an account of the vote. We didn't sign because, as I explained before, the digital card of rights and duties hasn't been entered, and then we thought he stopped short. And yet, as the paper of the euca and the K.C.sunes is accepted, we shall assent to this. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u94	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The Socialist Basque mustn't speak a word. Not even the Eubertians. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote together Podemos Equila, Sozialists, and the middle course of the Eubertists, we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: 68; Votes given, 68; supporters 68; opponents 0, Absences, 0; white; 0; 0,0,0,0,0,0; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u95	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Number of points in theme list: "Motion, Muriel Larre Laso Eusolura, a member of the Ciudadans, is introduced as to the arrival of the AH Tascaus in the Euskula. Discipline and final resolution. The caller's turn, Mrs. Larrea, is yours to introduce an initiative... Mr. Gordillo, I'm sorry, it's yours to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u96	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[End of tape 47]] [[Start of tape 48]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government. The arrival of the AVE in the Basque Country is the truth that it looks more and more, said the other day the president of our group, to the endless history. But I think it will be one of the points that has been discussed most often in all the Basque institutions, and I think that with little success, at least so far. This issue has been discussed since the 1990s, and the beginning of the works began more or less in 2008. We've been on this issue for about 30 years, and the truth is, we've made little or nothing progress. The AVE or the TAV, as some political group likes to call it. I imagine that for the "E" of Spain, but, altogether, was the "E" of Euskadi, because it could have been Euskadi's High Speed as well. But, finally, let's say the TAV, which is how everyone knows it, actually involves three major projects: first, the development of what is called the Basque Y, which is the internal part, the connection of the three capitals, the Bergara knot; the connection with Burgos, which is what would allow us to go to Madrid, Seville, Malaga, etc., and the connection with France. We start at the end; let's do a review. The connection with France is stopped. The Government of Spain is not doing any management with the neighbouring country; I am referring to France. And what would be a relatively simple work, I don't know if your lordships have had the opportunity to visit the area, but what could be a relatively simple work for what is the AVE, as it is stopped. For this there would be European funding, and also a possibility of doing so in a way – I believe – quite effective in collaboration with the French authorities. But, however, there is no progress of any kind. And in addition, the most generous estimates, recently there was a report outside the Court of Auditors of the European Union, say that perhaps it starts in 2037. Maybe. This will do us, in addition to losing European funds, it is likely that it will make us face some kind of sanction, return of funds that have already been received by Spain, etc. Anyway, that's the connection with France. The connection with Burgos, which I believe is the one that is most practical for most potential users, among which I can include myself, which is the one that would make it possible to do: Bilbao-Madrid, for example, in 2 and a half hours; Vitoria-Madrid in 2 hours and little, 2 hours and 10, or San Sebastian-Madrid in 2 hours 45. Well, this isn't really moving either. The other day, after a long time, the three-and-a-half-mile bid was announced, huh? Three and a half kilometers; more than 90 left, but good. Three and a half kilometers, which can cost, for by joining the inner part and perhaps the underground ones, for maybe 1.6 billion. We do not know when the others will be auctioned or whether there will be budget items on either side. With the government of Mariano Rajoy there was an agreement with deadlines and with funding. There's nothing now. Or, as I'm going to say, there are promises, which are repeating the same promises, and always changing – logically – the date, until reaching the current situation, in which there is no longer a direct date. The Basque Y, and the underground entrance in Vitoria and Bilbao, is the third great project. The Y is moving forward, for like the song almost: a step forward and a step backwards. Because this is true that we are in a situation where there may seem to be some progress, but it is that when this is over, when this is over and they begin to review all the sections that have been built, the counselor knows it well, we will have to review how they have been made, those small sections that have been built internally, and we will have to – at best – make some question, some adaptation. With which, the truth is that this progresses... There is no progress, but there are – perhaps – flashes, and someone could call it fireworks, every time you have to negotiate budgets in Madrid. The Basque Government is always looking for a management order. That's good about the management order. Management commission, ladies and gentlemen, you know it's spending the Ministry's money, which is also everyone's money. What happens is that, man, the management order is valid for what is the internal section; for what is the internal section, which is the internal part. The problem is, I insist, the more than 90 kilometers with the branch... I mean, they have to join us with Burgos. On the subject of the management order, that is fine. All right, well, well, it can be a partial solution, etcetera, well, but this is not the fat problem, the serious problem. This, however, is the concern that the Basque Government always seems to highlight, is it not? In the case of Vitoria, Vitoria/Álava, there is at least an agreement between institutions, Central Government, Basque Government, Diputation and City Hall. It is a protoagreement for underground entry – it is said – although it does not include deadlines, and it only partially deals with the issue of the sharing of investments. But then the various investments have to be recorded, but it does not include deadlines. You can see that, as I said in the previous speech, we don't like setting deadlines, because we already know we're going to fail them, right? In the case of Bilbao, the situation is already totally abandoned. Before – well, the truth is that it is known to all, ladies and gentlemen – the PNV had thrown the Rajoy government was clear on the issue of the Bilbao burial: there were dates, budget commitment and a schedule. There used to be a layout, funding, opening date, by the way, it was 2023, and now we're at the usual. It is a bit what the motto of this government could be, which is: we will see. We'll see about that. Returning to the case of Bilbao, which is where problems accumulate. We have a city council that wants to be paid for the underground, a parliament that looks elsewhere, a Basque government that meets with the minister without counting the previous ones, and this, when the Mayor of Bilbao is going to Madrid to meet with the number two of the Ministry. And then, they fix it by saying, "Well, yes, we're going to do a question, a thing and so on, to speed up the arrival." And, speed up the arrival, because I don't know in what way, "and that it will reach Basauri, and then we'll see." What emerges from all this, ladies and gentlemen, is a lack of leadership. The Basque Government has to lead this project, and it is not. I only see people colluding to point out a little bit, but I see little desire to really work, to work as a team, to foster interinstitutional agreements, which is what it really takes to carry out this project, and that the AVE – or call it TAV, as we wish – is a reality. The PNV is dislocated. I think he still has the prince's dethroned syndrome, because, of course, Sanchez has chosen those on the front bench instead of them for budgets, and man, something they had to do. So, quickly, the other day, they went to announce the station of Vitoria, with the spokesman in Congress. Screen, eh?, with the parliamentary spokesman in... [[End of tape 48]] [[Start of tape 49]] ...and man, something they had to do. So, quickly, the other day they went to announce the station of Vitoria, with the spokesman in Congress. Tela, with the parliamentary spokesman in Congress, are going to announce, instead of doing it through the councillor – if I were the councillor, the truth is that I would sit down quite badly – to say that a political commitment has been made to Pedro Sánchez, a political commitment, that is, to Pedro Sánchez has given him his word, so that it is the Basque Administration that leads the execution of the underground, which we do not know when, for the value of 1,600. I mean, there's a commitment that it's, it seems, the Basque government that executes the works, speaking in silver, that assigns the contracts, right? Well, they have a promise from Sanchez. As everyone knows, Mr. Sánchez has never missed his word. The conclusion of this is what it is. Well, we'll see about that. There is a lack of coordination. There is a lack of absolute coordination between administrations, ladies and gentlemen, which is particularly serious in the case of Bilbao and in the case of Bizkaia. It is worrying that the dispute is always to see who assigns the works, that all the emphasis is always placed on the famous management commissions, who assigns the contracts, who puts the medal. I insist again, a lot of people moving around trying to get out of the picture. And as a classic would say, if you move so much, maybe you don't end up in the picture. I see few people really willing to remarry, to come to terms and make this a reality. Because I believe that this is a reality that interests us, but everyone else, the vast majority of the groups in this House. The PNV was in a hurry to take the picture. That photo that deactivated that incipient competition that came out of the front bench group. Because, of course, if we already serve ourselves to be achievers. If they've already taken our position, what do we do, right? What's the big deal? With the important work, the more than 90 kilometers that have to join the Y with Burgos. Which is the one that will unite us with Madrid, with Seville, with Córdoba, with Malaga. What about Lisbon? It's there, it's away, while the Congress of Deputies in Spain has become a mess where no one thinks about the general interests and simply goes to the different groups to try to say that they have pulled a commitment from the central government in turn and then go to their constituency to try to put on the medal. They think this is benefiting them, but, in fact, this is all it is doing is degenerating the system more and more, and the truth is that we don't have, we don't have AVE, and it doesn't look like we're going to have AVE in the near future. As long as the stages are not bid, there will be no AVE. It's an illusion. If we have internal paths that can unite the three capitals, it's okay, but we're not really going to have AVE. The AVE is the connection with Madrid via Burgos. AVE is the connection with France. Let us take us to Europe and stop being an island, both with Europe and with Spain. I insist, we only have projects in the air. Government groups will surely come to remind us later, names have done such things. For the various governments, socialists, for they criticize "not and those of the PP, such and what thing". Man, I think they've been ruling PSOE for a while now, but let's let them intervene and then proceed. The truth is that this EVA thing seems to get out every time there's an election. Please note, ladies and gentlemen, that whenever there is an election or a certain movement on the political board, the subject of the EVA is taken out and the usual groups appear to try to put on medals. What does it take? And what do we ask for? Look, for Álava, what we are asking is to set dates and already make economic and budgetary commitments with a real implementation schedule. That is what is missing from the case of Álava, who at least already has an initial agreement on an interinstitutional agreement. But in Bizkaia's case, there's none of this. That is why we propose that there should be an interinstitutional agreement in Bizkaia, including the City Council, the Parliament, the Basque Government and the Government of Spain. An agreement that includes the burial. No temporary stations, which we already know, ladies and gentlemen, that the temporary in Spain ends up being permanent. I could remind them of when is the date of the Spanish Civil Code or the Criminal Procedure Act, which, man, are 19th century standards, which we are more or less applying to this day. I insist, an agreement that includes subterranean, but subterranean to the center of the city. The exploitation of the underground, that is, what will be derived from that. In the case of Bilbao, for example, the elimination of what is called the beach of the tracks will make the city gain some spaces. Well, for institutions can also participate in that benefit and turn it back into society, that an agreement be made between the institutions so that in the end that will benefit society. Make clear the contributions that each institution would make, and especially the commissions. Look, it's okay for the government to make orders. And why does the Chamber do it? And why doesn't the City Council do it? And an execution schedule. This agreement, I insist, must also include a commitment by the Government of Spain, which we are forgetting, ladies and gentlemen, but it is the most important thing. The most important thing is the stretch that will unite us with Burgos, which is what allows us to join the rest of Spain with the AVE, and specifically also Portugal. There needs to be this type, this agreement, and there needs to be budgetary commitments also by the central government. Moreover, it is very necessary for the Spanish Government to do something that I do not know why it is not doing, which is trying to reach an agreement with the French Government, with the Government of Paris, so that that section that is there, which would allow the connection with the Basque Y and which would, of course, bring us closer to Europe. There are some issues that would be at best broadened to allow a better circulation than goods would be, and so on. But there is European funding, and that should be done and that is not being done today, ladies and gentlemen. I insist on the date I told you before. It is that the best estimates speak of starting in 2037 the French branch. In short, I conclude with this, the discoordination between administrations, the haste to aim so much, the policy of achievers. All this is affecting, and very much, the development of our land and a strategic project that connects us with the rest of Spain, Portugal and France. Until the AVE is finished, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to be an island in Spain and remain an island in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u98	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Passing to the leadership teams, representing the EH Collector, Mr Fernandez de Betoulo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u99	Hello, good evening, everyone. To tell you the truth, I must confess, for the first time, read... [[End of tape 49]] [[Initial of tape 50]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u100	Hello, good evening, everyone. As a matter of fact, when I first read the original proposition, the proposition PP's, I smiled a little, because it was the first time they asked for dates to go to the project. And this project will have a lot of problems, but dates and dates will not be missing in this project. They've spent several dates with the avananic of 17 years with the fantics of 17 years. Aman said it would be over by 2010. Then Lopez de Gereñu came, said for 2013. Then Arrian came in, and in the previous term he said 2016, where Arrian sits. Then the Tapia came along and said she'd be there for 2023. And now Arrian said again 26-27, only lately says 27. And besides, we haven't even inserted stations. So the dates are off. And if you like, I give you a date, which century do you want? Maybe we can get the decade back, then I'll throw one at you on the second round. At the second point, PP asks for constructions or stations to accelerate, access to cities. I don't think he's making a suggestion that it's a little accelerated, because he doesn't mention a lot of institutions, but he doesn't mention the institution of Madrid, he doesn't mention Adif, the Ministry of Sustapen, the Ministry of MIMA. And in that sense, we think it's not very serious. Here also Mr. AVE, AVE, repeated the AVE, 5,000 times Gordillo, and he ought to know that AVE is a service which Renf provides at high speed, but that there are others. That's why we say a high-speed train or a TAV young man, because there are more in addition to AVE. It's funny, too, about the dates, about the events of the past week's announcement, I think, that even EAJ didn't give the dates for the station, and it seems to us quite odd. And even now that I am telling you that Adiaf has not entered at all on the second point of PP, although he is the owner of the infrastructure, it seems strange to us that there is no institution in this prediction of EAJ last week, hasn't it? And in that sense I don't know, it seems that the work is about to pay for EAJ, doesn't it? Speaking of acceleration, I think it's kind of a way of acceleration that you're going to sell, and it's because they don't wait for information that they're trying to liquidate the basic project. And we believe that this is not only a very doubtful one in the legal sense, because in this case there is more than one alternative, which I mean to bury in the 'Artyeta Gastines', especially in the name of democracy, is very doubtful. In the case of the burial of the Gastians, 11,400 missions have been presented to the informal study, which, without an answer, you want to liquidate the basic project. And, for example, without answering or explaining what alternative the representatives of EAJ came to give the propaganda announcement last week. We think it's really weird. And it's more important than that path, because somebody's thought about burying them faster than that, and it's not burying them, is it? In fact, he'll be right, that's how it's going to get much faster, even though the solutions will be a little more than once mentioned in New York and in New York, and if we don't get in the Union, then if we stop in the wilds, the works will be accelerated. But, actually, we think it's a disaster in that sense. And only five or six months ago is what the mayor said worth listening. Gasteizko alkateak esaten zuen Maiatzean: "High speed cannot come in any way. The high speed has to get underground. To do so on the surface would be a serious mistake, because we would leave the railway gap that exists today forever." Eta hilabete bat ondoen, Bilboko alkateak, Aburtok esan zuen: "I will fight for the TAV underground. Plan B is unacceptable. After waiting so long there can be no plan B. This mayor is not going to let other options get bogged down." Hitz horiek patatekin jan behar izan dituzte, patatekin. And even in the correction of the whole, which has been introduced by the EAJ and PSE, in the second place, they deny those words. It seems to us that very little, too little has passed since first moments of anger and denial, to a phase of acceptance from that stage, hasn't it? And now, what's doing EAJ is this phase of acceptance in a disguise as a negotiation, with that mandrake of wider encommenda. But, like I said the other day, we think it's not done better than Madrid where it's been, you know? In the Hernanan Office, 2, 4 kilometers, you'll spend 13 years doing that little gap. What then comes to ask for a larger phycommenda? You haven't been able to run 65% of all the presupud money this year. So why would you want a larger rehearsal? To tell you the truth, the only logical explanation that comes to my mind is the one that Soraya Saáenz de Santamarí gave me five years ago, and I shall set it up as a question. Is it not perhaps the only thing that interests you in those projects, to whom those contracts are directed? Indeed, what we care about is the presupuestarian consequence of the embryo. Yes, he'll get rid of the coupe, then I'll explain on the second round that it's not quite true. But what's done, if at last all the money that's been used from the coupe is a high-speed train, that's what the state doesn't use to manage its substructures. And in this sense, it is understood, why Renfe is in a final state of total collapse, isn't it? And you'll see that in 2027, using the dates Arriol gave you, when you go down to take the C3 train down in the desert, you'll see that the service has stopped even that day. There's no machineryists, there's been damages or one of those problems that happen almost every day these weeks. What we really care about is... [[End of tape 50]] [[LI. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... There's been damages or one of those problems that happen almost every day these weeks. What we really care about is that there's an alternative, as EH Collect thinks, there should be a more social and retebrating train model on the table, and at the center, at the center, at the center of the pretty trains, and in that sense we've made a full correction. The one with three points, we think very intelligent. Number one, the time transfer. C1, C2, C3, Irun-Brinkola. These are no supapathians, so there's no reason why they should be handled from Madrid. And, it seems, EAJ has forgotten the struggle for transfers. We don't know for a few contracts, but we think that we should get that fight once and for all. As for the second point, as Bilbo and Donos, they have their temporary trains, we believe that there might also be a train in the Gaste, which is not today. And there is no longer any authority for it; there is no excuse for it. Since the August of 2020, the trains are all over Europe, so we could ask for a service to be handled by the Basques: Miranda-Gasley-Alsau. We've often suggested it since the EH Union, and here, without giving any good reason, it's canceled. We think it's an interesting project, and that it's possible, if there were any political initiative. And the third point, the budget directed to the trains, may truly be given for the internal cohesion projects, and, if possible, for the projects by which the railways already exist. I think that the three points are very clear, using transfers, further services, and re-establish internal cohesion and sub-structions already existing in trains. And we think that's what makes EH Collect's beautiful trains, and we think that in front of the disaster of a high-speed train, they actually make a strong alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u101	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Basque Socialists, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, all the afternoons. Today we are discussing a motion concerning the arrival of the VAD in the Basque Country. And on the motion I will deny the largest one, Mr Gordillo, and it is that the government's response, the Arriola's response was insufficient. Another thing is that they didn't like what he heard, but the answer was more than enough and adequate. But you had already made the decision, and you heard what you heard, for your intention or the purpose of your inquiry was to present this motion, and here we are debating. I will begin by mentioning the commitments in this area of my party, the Socialist Party of Euskadi, Euskadiko Ezkerra, and the PNV, which have then been transferred to the government programme for this XII parliamentary term, with an indisputable bet on infrastructure and sustainable transport. We bet to turn rail transport of people and goods into one of the backbones of sustainable mobility in Euskadi. Among other performances, the Basque Y will culminate with the construction of the stations of Irun, Donostia-Ezkio, Bilbao and Vitoria-Gasteiz. The work of the railway variant of Donostia-San Sebastián will be completed, and the Riberas de Loyola exchanger will be built. We must also add the firm commitment of my party and the Basque Nationalist Party, which signed the agreement to complete the transfers of transport infrastructure for the materials and services referred to in this case to railways and airports, as provided for in the Gernika Statute, in the report on the update of the outstanding transfers and in the timetable formally forwarded by the Government of Spain on 20 February 2020. This will make it possible for Euskadi to manage the current transport system more integrated and effective, both in terms of internal mobility and its connection with neighbouring territories. Rail infrastructure is of vital importance. And in this legislature, with Councillor Arriola at the front, he is experiencing a strong impulse that will lead to an improvement in the living conditions of Basque citizens in the coming years. We Socialists believe that in order to give the necessary impetus and develop certain infrastructures it is essential that these projects be created. Fortunately, after a few years, the Arriola councilman again manages projects that were born in that legislature, in which he was also councilman of Transports of the government of the lehendakari Patxi López. Therefore, I have no doubt that, with your hand, these projects that were born at that time will have a new impulse, and in some cases will be completed. I am not going to repeat what Councillor Arriola said here in response to this question, because it was very robust and clear, but I do refer to some question. And we are talking about a work of extraordinary complexity. And to carry it forward requires decision, political will, investor effort and time. And Councilman Arriola could not be clearer and sharper in his answer, when he referred to the Basque Y, as an essential infrastructure to connect the three Basque territories with the rest of Spain and Europe, and to highlight the strategic position of Euskadi in the Atlantic Corridor. An infrastructure that, in addition to improving both passenger and freight connectivity, will strengthen Euskadi's development and competitiveness. Councillor Arriola also pointed out his commitment and that of the Basque Government to the development of high speed in Euskadi. Steps are being taken to reach Euskadi in the manner agreed upon by all administrations, i.e. through the underground integrations of Vitoria-Gasteiz and Bilbao, and working to make it a reality as soon as possible. The origin of the Basque Government's intervention in the execution of the Basque Y through various management commissions dates back to 2006, and has always been motivated by the aim of speeding up the execution of this large infrastructure. It is also worth mentioning the protocol approved by the Governing Council on 26 October, and that, among other issues, will allow to bid to the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda through Adif, the basic project of subterrament of Vitoria-Gasteiz, which later and once... [[51. End of tape]] [[Beginning of tape 52.]] ... 26 October, and which, among other issues, will enable the Ministry of Transport, Mobility and Urban Agenda to bid, through Adif, the basic project of the Vitoria-Gasteiz underground, which will subsequently and once the information study has been approved will be realized in the constructive project. This consensus decision by all the administrations that make up the Vitoria-Gasteizko High Speed Society Abiadura Handia is unusual, but it will speed up the pace of processing and shorten the deadlines. It is also hoped that this protocol will be signed as soon as possible in Bilbao, in which the commitments, including the financial commitments of the institutions that will be involved in this project, will be made available to the institutions as much support as possible. This protocol is a preliminary and inescapable step for the constitution of the society that will take care of the underground in Bilbao. Rigorous work, in collaboration with the rest of the institutions, to move forward and do so as quickly or as quickly as possible. And whenever it can, the PP, too, has done so here, it seems to bring to light the supposed unwillingness of the Spanish Government in this matter. And you have already been shown with figures, Mr Gordillo, that this lack of will always coincides with the times when your party, the People's Party, was at the head of the government. The volume made by different governments over time does not deceive and reveal who has had the political will to push the project and who has not. The last years of the socialist government, presided over by José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, can be seen in this chart, between 2008 and 2011, the Spanish government invested more than 769 million in this infrastructure. On the contrary, in the last four years, with the PP and Rajoy at the forefront, between 2015 and 2018, the investment in Basque Y barely exceeded 266 million euros, and it is from 2019 when the investment shows a clear upward trend. In fact, the budget envisaged by the draft state budgets of 2022 for Basque Y amounts to more than 300 million euros. It is clear what the data tell us, and it is that in order to make the necessary investment to undertake the works and the solutions in the Basque Y, the best guarantee is that there is still a government of Spain with socialist presidency, since this and many other projects that are in different stages of execution and processing are part of a strategy of public mobility, based on intermodality, sustainability, accessibility and efficiency, which puts at the center of the equation the rights of Basque citizens in terms of transport and their needs. All this strategy was agreed in depth with the Minister of Transport of the Government of Spain and the Minister of Transport of the Basque Government, Mr Arriola, at a meeting held in Lakua on 4 November, in which it was agreed that the TAV would be placed underground in the capitals of Álava and Bizkaia, as well as the various intermediate steps to be taken in the implementation of these two important actions. The commitment of the Government of Spain to the issue of burial was firm, and was thus reflected in the appearance before the media made by the same minister that day. And it is that although some of you and some of you weigh, this essential infrastructure for Euskadi, to connect us in a faster and more sustainable way with the rest of Spain and with Europe, is going to be a reality. With regard to the amendment tabled by EH Bildu, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, he has tabled an amendment to the whole motion for PP-Citizens. A motion that deals with the arrival of the VAD from the Basque Country. But, in fact, his amendment is a programmatic interpretation of what must be a railway policy in the Basque Country. Not to mention the conditions of management in this area, including those of a strictly financial nature, since the TAV is a strategic work for the Government of Spain, which in addition, in the end, pays it by the State. In fact, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, you have tabled an amendment to the whole of the government agreement and the programme of government between my party, the Socialist Party of Euskadi, and the PNV, and to the work that is being done in the field of railway infrastructure over these years with the Government of Spain. Your amendment, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, I believe that it is of a political opportunism which, in addition to being unrealistic, is impossible. And it is that by taking advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, and taking advantage of the PP-Citizens motion, it puts an advertising wedge in its political programme on infrastructure and sustainable mobility. And with regard to your motion, in principle, your motion, Mr Gordillo, the will of the Basque and Spanish administrations to give impetus and progress to this work on the railway infrastructure in question, via committals, negotiations that have already taken place, I think they slightly invalidate the petition related to the motion. The way is already done, and it was to urge. And now we must do nothing more than, if you approve of this motion, it would be an unnecessary repetition that does not come to the point. As evidenced by the various political meetings and institutions held over the past few months, it is another sign of the momentum that the Basque Government and the Government of Spain are giving and are going to give to the works of the high-speed train. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u103	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Eubertarians, Mrs. Lete, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u104	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good afternoon to everyone. And the problem of being the last is that we repeat so many arguments, but nevertheless it is an important point of prolonging my point of view. Or rather our point of view. Europe believed to be the strategic infrastructure of the high-speed train in 1994 (... ) At the summit of the summit, this is what the European meeting appointed. Europe declared that the Y vasca was the base railway line of Europe. So he took this project as an strategic, and the European association has also contributed to the funding. Substructure... [[End of tape 52]] [[Start of tape 53]] ... so that this project was considered as an strategic, and the European association has even shared in the finances of Europe. The three purposes of this substructure were distinguished by Europe; To promote economic development, to integrate Europe into the inner market, to seek cohesion of the country, the cohesion of society, and economic cohesion. Esto es, integral, impulsar y comironar. They read this strategic reading from Europe, and from Euskaza, the combination of the Basques has always been an important subject with Europe, whether for the development of economics, for the better and more efficient activity of society, and that in transports it is essential to improve the environmental indicators of the train. This has always had its importance, but at this moment, when the duties of debonization are laid upon the table, we must show that necessity and commitment must be greater. The strategic location of Euskadi on the label of the Atlantic Railway Corridor has been the fundamental reason for this project to be considered strategic. And it has invited to bet in all possible areas for the implementation and completion of this railway corridor. Thus, the high-speed train has been present in all the negotiations that EAJ/PNV has conducted in Madrid. All the negotiations on the General Budgets of the State have been used, this aspect has been negotiated with all governments, whatever colour they may be. And we have always tried that our presence in Madrid has obtained concrete benefits for Euskadi. Different formulas have been sought that could boost the infrastructure by doing co-governance practices in our territory and by looking for tools that would allow greater stability and efficiency in the development of the project. Train will be honest lehenengo zirriborroak 80K hamarkadan marraztu zirren, agian, momentu horretan desioak edo ametsak besterik ez zirren izango, bathe asmakizun horiek lurreratzen eta gorpuzten joan dira, oso motel, esan beharra dago, bathe planifikazioko lehenengo dokumentua 2001ean onartu zuen Eusko Jaurlaritzak. This planning requirement was consolidated into a PTS, in the PTS of the railway network, which was approved by a decree on 27 February 2001. And this beginning of the normative path laid the foundations and was the beginning of a (...) long administrative road. Information studies, mentioned by Mr Betoño, processing of sectoral permits, corresponding environmental processes at each time, constructive projects and soil management, expropriations and negotiations. The said PTS has allowed the coordination of this infrastructure with the municipalities, accompanying the urban growths and adapting them, of course, to the serfdoms that the railway route assumed. And, of course, it has allowed other sectoral policies to observe what their niches of opportunity and development will be. We find a clear example in the solution of the capital entries. He's been arguing, he's been standing there, but we've also made different proposals and different tools for the execution of the capitals, and he's agreed on the solution that's really a solution and a solution that's going to lead the projects to Madrid. The PTS defined the territorial issue of the high-speed train, but left for future development some aspects concerning the entrances to the cities, the capitals and the connection with Iparralde. As we have heard recently and frequently in this House, some of these issues have been extended over time, and still today they are issues that will require new efforts and definitions that are not absolutely defined today December 2021, when 20 years have passed since that normative start. Therefore, only corroborate that Euzko Abertzaleak's intention to continue to bet on the project, to boost the project and to meet the requirements of cities and citizens. It took some part of the territory above mentioned that the work, the effort, the insistence, and the institutions of different parts, had to be worked. I mean, in 2001, the RedMork took a strong step to get the train's network starting. By this means, the train obtained certain ends that would help it, and by time these ends have been made more or less perfect. So that the goals of today remain economic development, the efficiency of motion, the cohesion, balance, and environmental wager of society. These objectives have been consolidated over time and have taken on a new topicality and virtuality. The European project, not only economic, but the objective of eliminating the border effect, the search for greater social, cultural and educational cohesion has been strengthened over the years, and the new challenges to combat the effects of the climate crisis need new modes of passenger transport and, of course, new modes of freight transport. All this reaffirms us in the need to promote the execution of the high-speed train and to seek the completion of the work and the super-infrastructures. "Y, cómo no, insistir en que un retraso, el retraso de la llegida del lsmentable." "S inaudito que una infraititura como es es no sea objectitiv de la construcción en placezos rations por todas las dondicatas reello." It must be said that to finish the dates and the delays of the date is a pity. But if we're from the strategic project, we'll continue our work in order to complete the railway network and continue to compete in every part of our available work. Until we develop the latest elements of the network, we're going to work unrelentingly in Madrid. And thanks to that, in the agreement last week, the capital entries will be buried. The entrances to the capitals of Gastei and Bilbo will be made through an embezzlement. If you need a temporary station, they'll be temporary. We'll work to get this project finished and be running as fast as we can. And this is where the work of Eucan patriots will be directed here and in Madrid. Sharing the strategic nature of the infrastructure, the Basque Government has always sought and endeavoured to make progress in its construction, always adjusting to the competitive framework that we are faced with, and which implies that the financing of the work, of the infrastructure, is entirely the responsibility of the central Government, but seeking formulas that will allow progress. Innovative, purposeful and collaborative formulas, with a single interest, which is the interest... [[End of tape 53.]] [[LIV. Start of tape]] ... the central government, but looking for ways to move forward. Innovative, purposeful and collaborative formulas, with a single interest, which is the general interest of Basque citizens. This collaboration seeks a benefit for Euskadi. It is always driven by the conviction that the train will have a tractor character and will bring numerous benefits in terms of economic competitiveness, connectivity with Europe and, of course, the great contribution that rail transport will make to the decarbonisation of transport. And testify that a high speed train should have priority and delays are unacceptable. We understand the project as a whole, and today we will add that the way to accomplish buried entries in the capitals is fixed by the encommenda tool. Our team continues to work unrelentingly, without despair, and with the intention of doing the commitments he has made in Madrid. What do we want or expect? As we've agreed to form the protocols and the agreements to get into the capitals, and make a real speeding of the projects, the greatest speed. The train of Gaste will be buried by the Enkomidae, and the archautian knot will be part of the encommidae. At the same time, Bilbo's train will be buried and the tunnel will be part of the encomit. We want this project to move forward. The management of the entrance stages to the capitals, Bilbao and Vitoria, is an achievement that will allow the project to be stable, and thus can respond more quickly to the investment needs that this project needs. As I said at the beginning, this infrastructure was classified as strategic by Europe almost 30 years ago, and today it remains pending, but with less uncertainty, with more certainty. We have to take the cruise speed and we have to take the high speed at last.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Lete. Passing on the line of uncorrected teams, Mistya, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Gentlemen of the People's Party, once again, your proposals are late, and they are late because while you were proposing the obvious and the generic, the PNV was forwarding them to the right. Thus, last Friday, the agreement reached between the PNV and the Government of the nation to accelerate and materialize the arrival of the TAV to the Basque Autonomous Community was made public. With this agreement, the Basque Government will assume, in principle, the management of the civil works of this infrastructure through a management commission, something that it looked forward to from the beginning and that they have finally achieved, demonstrating to the gallery their power in the negotiations with Madrid. Although we will still have to wait to see how this order is articulated, how the TAV will be paid and when it is planned that this route will be inaugurated, which enough delay is already due to the party interests of both parties, we assume that the Basque Government will have already informed companies related to the PNV to prepare the conditions and that they will also be awarded with subjective valuations, and in this way everything remains at home. We have been working for more than 15 years on economic investment. And the best of the hypotheses points to 2027, as the Arriola advisor told us. This date is expected to be the opening of high speed in the Basque Country. We have to say it's the slowest high-speed train in the world. Many of the infrastructures built have become obsolete, such as the more than 11 tunnels that were built and in which evacuation galleries have to be changed, because they do not comply with the 2015 regulations. How much money from the Basques has been thrown into the trash while fighting for the TAV? Millions of euros. On the other hand, we have Mr de Bildu, who is presenting us today with an amendment which has nothing to do with what the PP has proposed in his motion. Amendments to prevent the arrival of TAV to our land that were once bombs and shots to the back of the neck. Know that the wealth of Basque land is interconnected with the rest of the world. Not hyperconnected between us, but isolated from the world, which also evolves fast. The Basque Y has always been blocked. For example, in December 2008, ETA shot and killed businessman Ignacio Uria for the sole offence of being a consultant to one of the Basque Y's builders. Without going any further, a few days ago there was also a news that three hooded men had broken into the company that manages the TAV in Gipuzkoa, fearing and threatening the personnel working on the construction of the TAV. They seem to be contrary to the development and progress of Basque society. The amendment tabled by PNV and PSOE is striking. If we weren't aware of his tricks and his covenants, we would think it was a great exercise of evidence about what was going to happen. But they don't cheat on us. We know that their interest was to have the TAV management commission, and until they have managed to do so they have put no more than obstacles to their arrival in our community. There was the crux of the matter, Mr Gordillo, the management commission. Finally, in Vox we believe that the arrival of the TAV is excellent news for our people. A technology that will allow us to be closer to the whole of Spain, and that will only bring prosperity to our land by facilitating their communication and speed. But we have one thing clearly, the works of the Holy Family that the Basque Y will finish before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u107	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u108	Yeah. Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. Indeed, being the last, in my case, does not allow to add many more arguments or, at least, not new ones. But, in any case, to start with the proposer, Mr Gordillo, to say that, in fact, the first point of his original initiative talks about the need for deadlines, and it is already very easy and it has been repeated that we were expecting to implement this project for decades. But when it comes to timing, I understand from your intervention that what you're talking about is a real timing. Real. Because, as has already been said by EH Bildu's spokesman, many are the deadlines and many are the calendars that have been put on the table. But also these... [[End of tape 54]] [[Start of tape 55.]] ...real. Because, as has already been said by EH Bildu's spokesman, many are the deadlines and many are the calendars that have been put on the table. But these too have been offered by the People's Party, of which you are now a party, when you have held government in the state deadlines, funding commitments and these have not been met to a large extent. So, in that sense, in the end, blame or blame or assume or not assume, rather, the responsibilities also own, in this case I think it is quite cheating and cynical. We believed that the initiative was not going to be proposed, in view of the announcement by last week's PNV regarding the commitment made with the Government of Spain. It is true that there has been a great deal of focus on the issue of the management order. We do believe that to focus on the issue of the management order, because basically what gives us the impression is that the purposes of the PNV in relation to this issue is basically what has already been put on the table and raised by different parliamentary groups, which is to continue to maintain the logic of satisfying the country's builders in terms of the execution and the project of the high-speed train. But we do think it is appropriate and interesting to see the framework that has been established by the amendment to the whole proposed by EH Bildu, which we do believe has to do with the issue, and basically because it talks about the model, which is also a matter of substance in relation to the high-speed train, and how each of us and ourselves should think about the model of interconnection, in this case, rail in our country. And for our part, we do consider that where the focus should be and where the focus should be is to foster a network of closenesses, and not so much high-speed train, and if so, that the high-speed train also incorporates what has to do with goods to a large extent or, rather, to a greater extent. And this is not the case in principle. What we believe would have accelerated, if any, are the transfers of certain lines of proximity or, if any, the expansion of certain lines of train service in our country. We therefore believe that it is appropriate to talk about the model when talking about this issue. As we are probably confronted by the proposing group that we too are part of the Government of Spain, so we are part of the Government of Spain, but, of course, in terms of decision-making capacity, we are not the majority part of it, and therefore certain issues cannot depend exclusively on us. On the question of sustainability, we also believe that a model in which the lines of proximity and intermobility in this sense, of intermodality in this sense, we believe that they guarantee a greater degree of sustainability, when, indeed, in this country, the greatest source of pollution is mobility. And that, indeed, as has been said in the decarbonisation project and in the road map that we have to mark as a country in the decarbonisation process, indeed, with regard to mobility, a great deal of thought needs to be given. And in this sense, of course, the high-speed train will not prevent us today from the degree of pollution caused by mobility in our country. If of course collective transport, in this case other modes of transport, and also the lines of proximity, in this case the train of proximity. And with regard to the lines of Hendaya and Burgos, indeed, in this case, consider it to be one of the most fundamental elements and of which we have not just spoken. We believe that until this is defined, the project of the high-speed train, at the moment, takes place, and we believe that it has to be made clear, as soon as possible, what role will be played in the connection with the French State. Because if not, it will jeopardize that strategic character which was said to be granted by the European Union to this high-speed line. And finally, and basically motivating our group's position on the various proposals, in relation to the original one, we will, of course, vote against, because we believe that it does not contribute much to the debate, beyond asking for deadlines, when these are already on the table. What is needed is, in your case, to fulfill them. And with regard to speeding up, well, it is also not clear exactly what the methods are for speeding up. You have already been told, if the method is not to subterranean or, failing that, some other structural change in the project that we would like you to define in your case. With regard to the Bildu initiative, we will vote in favour, basically because, in essence and in substance, it speaks of a model we share and, moreover, because the specific lines contained in the amendment concerning certain projects have also been endorsed in the past. And with regard to the initiative of the PNV and the Socialist Party, we will not support the initiative, because it basically puts this project as a strategic one and we believe that strategic ones are others with regard to decarbonisation and also to offer another kind of mobility in our country, and not, of course, in these terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u109	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Passing on the answers, Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u110	Thank you very much, Madam President. Who was going to tell me that I believe that the spokesman of the other groups that convinced me the most or one of the phrases that convinced me the most is a phrase from Mrs Lete, and that is that the delay in this work is regrettable. That's unfortunate. And look, I agree with what Mrs. Lete said. It's just that it's unfortunate. Let us see what we are presenting, of course, is an incentive to the Government, and above all, that we set time limits that we will meet. Look, you can say whatever you want from the PP, Rajoy, (...), whoever it is, but it's that with Rajoy there was a commitment, there were budgetary provisions, and above all there is a date. And why is the date important? So I can control the government. To be able to precisely control the government. And Mr. Soto's excuse that "it's that we're part of the government, but we're the minority part." That is, the decisions are voted on in the Council of Ministers. How's it going? A little strange, isn't it? But anyway, listen, I don't know. I don't understand much, I'm not getting in there. I don't... [[End of tape 55]] [[Start of tape 56.]] ...minority." That is, the decisions are voted on in the Council of Ministers. How's it going? A little strange, isn't it? But anyway, listen, I don't know. I don't understand much, I'm not getting in there. I won't say... You called me cheating and cynical. Man, I, in your case, will say that you are a visionary, you have a great vision, because you have seen what none of us have been able to see in Bildu's proposal, which is logical: congruence with what is being discussed here today, because we are talking about a completely different thing. But, listen, the generosity of the Bureau by admitting this type of amendment to the whole, you see, because it is used in many debates, and it has been completed. But well, I, you see, I didn't imagine you, Mr. Soto, as someone who rejects a good debate, but good. Anyway, what are we going to do to him? I do believe that there is a substantial agreement that the delays that are taking place, because it is up to the government in charge, which is unable to lead a project that I do not say is easy; of course it is a complicated project. But there has to be a leadership, and we here also proposed that it be a leadership by the Basque Government itself which, together with the Government of Spain and the rest of the administrations, will reach agreements. Reach a real agreement, and an agreement that is truly effective, that is effective, and that is, above all, credible and that is being implemented. And of course with a few dates. It is that, if there are no dates, the Government cannot be controlled. It's just that if you don't, it's the usual. It's: we'll see about that. "Hey, let's move on. And we'll do our best, listen, so that the AVE gets here as soon as possible. Well, we'll see about that." Man, we'll see about that. Or as Mrs. San José says, "As soon as possible." Well, man, yeah, sure. Sure. Listen, I wish tomorrow... and I wish Mr. Sanchez was not holy of my devotion... I wish tomorrow Mr. Sanchez would come here and say, "Hey, we're opening the AVE." Phenomenal. Hey, great. I'm even applauding you there, at the entrance of Bilbao-Abando Indalecio Prieto, as you put him at the station. Look, I think it's phenomenal. But listen, it's just that I think, what I don't understand is this from the refusal to present or set a date with a reasonable program. I don't know if they're pretending to be a surprise, or that, as they know, this is going to be something that's impossible or that, to fulfill, above all, because I understand that... It is that, unfortunately, what is being seen here is that it seems that the arrival of the AVE is dependent on political balances when it comes to adopting budgets in Madrid that make no sense and that, above all, go against the general interests. Because here we must not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that the important thing is, I insist again, the connection with Burgos. Those 90-100 kilometers, more or less. That, hey, that also costs a lot of money. Well, I don't know if it's gonna cost $1 billion. If there is more or less EUR 10 million per kilometre, it has been more or less the last tender, as I calculate it will go about that amount. And that's what needs to be budgeted. That's what we need to commit to. Mrs. San José herself said so. He said: "Man, let us hope that it will be signed as soon as possible in the case of Bizkaia, Bilbao." I mean, I'm right. Of course, it's what's objective because it's hard to discuss, isn't it? Mrs San José spoke of decision, political will, paraphrasing Mr Arriola. Which, by the way, you have mentioned more often the name of Mr Arriola than the name of the project itself, but good. Decision, political will, investor effort... Yes, that's all right, but one very important thing to do is do your homework. Do your homework. And to do your homework right, you need planning, and you need a few dates. And we need some budget items. And it takes an interinstitutional commitment, and not being here all day with that if not, it's that now it's going to be the management order around here, it's not going to be, it's that if I don't know how many, it's that if now such... That is how there is no way to move forward, simply and sincerely, with this. So, listen, Mrs San José, if you want to convince us that the government is making it phenomenal with this, no. It's just that I don't think you've convinced your partner, because you've already told him it's unfortunate. So, man, I hope – I insist – this opens tomorrow. But well, I'm already curious to see what the second part of your speech poses to us, because you always reserve the second part to give some interesting part. Let us see what it tells us in this second part because, of course, the first part has not told us anything more than that we are going to see, that we are going to do, that the Government is doing a lot. And I'm telling you, I don't think you've convinced your government partner. And, Mrs. Martinez, that the PNV is going to take the medal, it's an agreement with Sanchez. What's going to happen to this? Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u111	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Stand by the EH team, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u112	Don't worry, the state pays. That's what we're told a little bit, and it's a lie. It's a lie, because there are side damages. And it's a lie, too, talking money. Which sidecals are they? From time to time, I said. And not just metaphorically, they're in decay, literally. Today, at noon, there's been a mourning in Gabian on the Irun-Brinkola train. And fortunately, no one was hurt. But they're every day, because of their lack of maintenance, problems in those lines. And it's all the money from the coupe because he gets into a high-speed train. And I also say that money is a lie, at least it's not quite true, because part of it is a financial policy. At the end of the settlements, in 2006, and in 2017s, I can imagine what will be signed, because we have not seen any agreement, it is said that only the money that comes directly into the execution of the work. So the money to write projects isn't off the deck. The technical existences of property are not decontracted from the deck. and the conduct of the work does not contradict itself. Do you know how much we've had up to now, in the case of the Gipulia alone, where we've almost spent 1,900 euros? Well, 200 million euros. Archiolls himself, answer in a written letter. Two hundred million euros from 1.900, then 10%. 10% is not decontamination from the deck. It's a lot, I don't know, but it's a lie that everything's dislocated from the deck. And so tell us, now that you have opened the decommenda to make stations, how much will that suppose the Basque citizen? How much money? Because if there are 800 million euros per station, about half of them, and half of them, if the institutions here are going to pay... Well, except for the Big Forest, what the Biscare Aldundia has been demanding, eh? Even in the last week's prediction, he had not been able to explain himself. So the Aradaba Modals, the Gastei and the Bilbo Citys will pay for half of the 1,600 million, live, that won't be decompounded. And from the other... [[End of tape 56]] [[Start of tape 57.]] ... And the fun will pay for half of the 1,600 million, live, that won't go off the record. And in the other half, we'll pay 10%, which means that what's 80 million is fine. So at least it will be 880 million dollars of eucalypcan citizens who will have to pay directly. Bukatuk had irakurtzen ai pu bato osso ondo laburbiltzen duera gure iritzia, éza da gurea. Pass of the asteko iragarpenean, iragarpen we use historikoan, iragarpen propagandistiko horretan egon zen partonsona batak, EAJko orderzkari batek egindakoa yes, isil-isilik egon zena passa den esten. Horra berge aipua: "When will we be able to dispose of an infrastructure in which we have spent so much energy and so much money, and which is now little less than a bidegorri?. A bidegorri, to be understood by the listeners, is a bicycle route, a bicycle road. Because the tracks aren't on, the trains don't work out there, we've done the whole Gipuzcoan section but there's no union with the Vizcain section, we don't have union with the well-made plateau, with Burgos, this is a real disaster. A real disaster was that of the train."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u113	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Basque Socialists, Mrs. San José, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u114	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I have spoken before, Mr Gordillo, about decision-making, political will, investor effort and time. And this is a project that is being implemented in its different stages, many of them completed, others quite advanced and others, certainly more late than we would all like. And here we have to talk about the vicissitudes that in the development of the TAV, among others, have had the attack of the terrorist band ETA. And this is nothing but a fact, the consecration of a reality, and that we cannot reduce gravity to what has happened for years. The terrorists threatened, extorted people and companies related to the high-speed train, sabotaged the works and, most seriously, murdered the businessman Inaxio Uria. And this is a fact. As it is also that, despite the threats and that the entire government of the lehendakari Patxi López was threatened by ETA, we were able with the advisor Arriola at the head – that is why he mentioned so much, because he did so very well and continues to do so very well – to launch the first management commission of the Gipuzcoan branch as a whole, bidding and awarding all its sections. And to this must be added also the delays attributed to acts of sabotage and harassment of different intensity, directly related to the works of the TAV, the construction companies and/or their workers. Mr Fernandez de Betaño spoke of the management of the Gipuzcoan stretch of the Basque Y. Well, in this quarterly report, on 30 September this year, because you in those 200 million peaks put the VAT tax adjustments, which, well, that this is an accounting issue that does not have to include them, and also the regulated figure of a topic, a topic because it started with a VAT of 6%, neither can be considered deviations nor price revisions, because that is a regulated figure within the Contract Law. I believe that if we talk about deviations of 6%, we are talking about good management, taking into account the scale and complexity of the works and that 74% of the Gipuzcoan section is going underground. We are talking about a total of 34 tunnels and 32 viaducts. It is clear that this is a project that has never liked EH Bildu, we all know it, and will never like it; like all the elements and infrastructures in Euskadi that they have or that walk towards modernity. Finally, we already know that, although it is contrary to these infrastructures, then, even though they are always opposed, they always use them. And I would like those who are behind the banner, those who are shielding themselves even behind it, because they pull their shoulders or remain to collaborate in making this project a reality. Because both, those who discuss it, have taken an important step in supporting the general budgets of the Government of Spain, which finances the Basque Y, which I thank you for. And, well, and very much to your regret, Mr Soto, much to your regret because they are in the Government of Spain, they are sitting on the Council of the Government of Spain. And during this parliamentary term it is Mr Arriola's intention to give a boost above all to the solution of the accesses and integrations of the TAV in the cities of Vitoria-Gasteiz and Bilbao, and whose information studies are in the process of environmental processing. I repeat, and there is leadership, Mr Gordillo, here there is leadership because the commitment of the Government of Spain and the Basque Government to the arrival of the high-speed train underground to the cities of Vitoria and Bilbao is indisputable, and their desire to get the new railway infrastructure into service as soon as possible. The arrival of the TAV is going to be a reality, as the Minister of Transport said. And the socialist leadership in this project and the political commitment of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, the Spanish Government, the Basque Socialist Party and the Basque Government to make the high-speed train a reality is an undeniable reality. We're here to approach positions, but it's been impossible. We will vote on the amendment to the whole that we have tabled together with Basque Nationalists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u115	Thank you, Mrs. San José. Eubertarians, Mrs. Lete, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u116	Thank you. My second turn... [[End of tape 57.]] [[beginning of tape 58.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u117	Thank you. Nire bigarren txanda hasen hasen, datu orokor batzuk berriro aipatu nahi ditut. Corridor Atlantic is part of the basic European network. It provides integration, mobility and cohesion at European level. I believe that this infrastructure needs to be analysed about this prism. On the prism of the European level. Internal cohesion is analysed in other aspects within the PTS itself. Now, I also want to remember that we're betting a high-speed train, because it's interesting, and time will tell us what it is like. We defended him here and Madrid. We see with regret and anger the slowness of our lives, but we're going to do a steady, tireless job to get this infrastructure through. The engagement obtained in Madrid, in which the buried entrances of the capitals will be executed and accelerated, and the project within this germination, and it decontracts them. I take this opportunity to recall that this conviction has caused Euzko Abertzaleak to have consistently and tirelessly defended the execution of the infrastructure in Madrid. Constant and untiring, to central governments that have made a warm, tempered bet, regarding the high speed train. This tempered response has extended and postponed the proper articulation of the European Atlantic Corridor. I believe that we are now at a turning point in the materialisation of the infrastructure thanks to the agreements adopted. In fact, from my point of view, there is nothing to do with original initiation. Your proposal is from the train grounds, but that's all. I didn't quite understand how it was done. But, I must say, in the original motion round the train, our action, our contributions are on the table, and we shall receive future benefits. But laterly, time will give us an answer. I'm sure we'll all use them. You'll use these trains, too, even if you don't contribute to that infrastructure right now and don't do any strategic work. It's said that in high-school bets, that's your attitude, that I don't quite understand, but that's what they say. I must also remember, today, we've talked about LOT several times: Ley de orderción del tertoria has been developed according to this. According to this view, the plans in the part of the train were developed, and it is also recorded in the general plans of the townships. Our organization of lands and the planning of the city confirms the infrastructure, but you have not received this order. Sometimes you defend him, this morning, and now you're a negotiator. Honestly, I don't understand this knot. I don't understand. They point out that investment must be strengthened in internal territorial cohesion. In that too the PTS contributes, and they are also exercised. There's the Atxuri station, there's the Topo, they're infrastructure that's still being used and they're still investing in it. The TAV infrastructure is complicated. It's complicated, it's undeniable. Gipuzkoa, geologically, is very complicated. Zuk, yellow beton, badakizu. And you know it. You know. They suffered him in Deskarga, suffered his group and the government at that time, suffered what was difficult to execute something in Gipuzkoa. Neither territorial planning, urban planning, citizen participation nor, of course, management was able to solve the problem. That is, that 12 years in Astigarraga, in fact, has not mentioned Fernandez de Betoño all the sections in which it has been carried out in a much more reasonable time. With regard to the proposal made to us by the PP, we urge the Government to deepen negotiations on the high-speed train and to speed up the process for the implementation of the underground projects. Indeed, Mr Gordillo, it is obvious; a redundancy. It does not seem necessary to urge the Government to do something that it is already doing, which is already being done by the Government and the parties that support it. Certainly, beyond generating a debate, I do not know very well what the purpose of the motion was. Perhaps, well, we could agree on many points, but I do not think that in our becoming a parliamentarian this adds anything to what the Government is already doing at the moment. There is no proposal that exploits and explores new work niches. Obviously, I invite you to make that proposal, and we will discuss it together. Perhaps you have prioritized, and of this you probably know more than us, other sections at the state level, that you did not have the strategic value that the Basque Y piece has in the final result of the Atlantic Corridor. These priorities have probably not always been met, or have not always met strategic reasons, and may have met other party interests. But, probably in this section, you and your party know a lot more than we do, than I, my party and the government are currently managing in railways. For my part, nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Lete. Miss, Mrs Martínnez mustn't talk. Together... he mustn't talk. [[Pause]] [[End of tape 58.]] [[LIX. The beginning of the tape.]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u119	End of discussion, we'll vote for Mrs. Laso's original text. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 72; in favour 6; the contrary,66; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u120	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote for the entire EH Collect Group correction. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 72; supporters 26; opponents, 46; abstains, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u121	Not accepted. And in the end, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialists and the Euccanists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 72; 40; the opponents, 32; abstainations, 0; white, 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-12-09.u122	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at five-thirty-five.
