ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u0	Good morning, everyone. Everyone to their seats, please. Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we start, I warn you that the fourth point has been left for another. First point in theme list: "The resolution of the organization, of the Governor and Security Committee, of the Memberego of Eska Autonomy Esprogical Administration, and of the bill of law on Scanal. Discipline and final resolution. Mrs. Garats has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u1	Mr. President, president, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. Today the parliamentary route of Kidego and the Order Law Project, which the Government Council agreed on on December 1st, 2020, to fulfill the legislature's calendar. On the 22nd of February, as I requested, we made a scene in this Chamber, in order to explain the importance of this text to the parlamentary groups, and to clear the doubts that might arise. I am here again to-day, this time in front of the whole meeting, and, as I did at his time, I shall deal and explain the most significant aspects of this project. First of all, I would like to remark that the project of the Kidego and the law of Scouts has a better organization of the public administration and adapted its organizational structure for its principal purpose. Not only that, because with it he wants to be a tool to reach public employment and to facilitate the process of setting it up. In this great challenge, we haven't started from scratch. We have accompanied the 1/2004 law of Euscal Autonomy in General Administration and its autonomous organizations. For by this law there was established a pattern of arranging human resources, which was foreseen in the 6/89 law of the Public Function. This rule combined officers into members and scales as an additional tool of arrangement. All this with the object of organising public employments, and the intention of rationalizing common and internal tests to enter public functions. It's been more than 15 years since the law that's been established today. Important changes which have obviously affected the content of the law in this course of time have occurred in the education system and in the public function area. As far as education is concerned, the catalogs of conditions have greatly changed, especially from Bologna Plan. For example, where there was only one catalogue of First Relations, every university has an offer of official rights. Moreover, this new context, formed in academic camp, has added some changes which have been introduced into the sphere of public function. Above all, the acceptance of the Public Government's Basic State. Hence new definitions of the public and groups of jobs which each member of the autonomy community ought to define and regulate have been created. That's why it's necessary to regulate the Basque Administratives and climbings again. This regulation, moreover, will have a direct influence on the choice of entering public function into public proceedings. And they'll have to be redesigned. Therefore, the specific objective of this draft Law on Bodies and Scales is to move forward in defining a model of public function based on functional knowledge, which facilitates and improves the selection of human resources. Not only that, but the aim is to resolve the current legal complexity in access to public employment processes. This law is structured in the positions of the Administration into bodies which, in turn, are classified in general and special, according to the homogenous nature of their functions, competencies, capacities and common knowledge accredited in the selective processes. Also, the necessary scales are created within the bodies, so that functions that can be performed by professionals with degrees from various fields of study are grouped. In this sense, the scales become the element of the central system, overcoming the current model of access to public employment with a specific qualification. And it will be through job relationships how the bodies and scales for the provision of jobs are concrete. That is to say, when a post can be provided by staff members who belong to several bodies and scales, it will be in these job relationships where the preferred scale is determined, where selective evidence will be called to access such a post. In this sense, job relationships... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... the preferred scale shall be determined, in which the selective tests shall be convened for such a position. In this regard, job relationships undoubtedly assume a fundamental role as a basic tool in the management and organization of the Administration. In short, this law is absolutely necessary, because it will give greater legal certainty to the structuring of public employment, and will facilitate the development of future job offers. Having said that, there is another fundamental reason why the adoption of this law today represents a qualitative leap for the Basque administration. In our commitment and commitment to finding formulas aimed at consolidating employment, this law regulates two additional provisions for temporary employment consolidation processes in Basque public administrations. Provisions that have as their main objective the recognition of the experience of people who have been working in our Administration for some time as interim staff. A collective that, without any doubt, brings an experience and knowledge of great value to our Administration. As regards these exceptional consolidation processes, which we know have been the subject of in-depth debate during your parliamentary tour, I would like to stress the following. The Basque administration was the first to propose to this Parliament a special process of access to the Basque administration when no one was talking about exceptional consolidation processes. In the course of the parliamentary process, the initial wording of the second provision concerning consolidation, on the grounds of legal certainty, has been deleted. As you will recall, the content of this provision was similar to that of Law 7/2019, the fifth amendment to the Basque Police Act, which was annulled by the Constitutional Court. At all times we have expressed our willingness to consider the possibility of giving a different treatment to prolonged temporary situations in the Administration. This standard is therefore intended to provide coverage, or the necessary coverage, to address these consolidation processes. Consolidation of temporary employment, with due legal guarantees. In short, this law receives many changes which affect the organization of the public employment. Besides, he will give Administration a vital instrument to adapt the organization of human resources and rationalize the selection of public employments. So there's no doubt that our administration is faced with a fundamental and strategic law. We have many challenges over us in the circle of public functions. By the way, I believe that today, the legislature, this law which I hope to give the green light, will be of great use. These are the people who work in all the public administrations of Eucharistic, in this legislation, the axis of our administration. After all, it's a matter of keeping all of us from serving each one of us in our own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. Passing on the teams, Miss Mist, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours. He mustn't speak. The representative of the Popular-Ciudad, Mr. Gordillo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor. Well, today the bill is put to the vote in this Parliament... the opinion in fact, the bill of the bodies and scales of the Administration of the Basque Autonomous Community. But, as we all know, ladies and gentlemen, in reality, this law does not go from bodies to scales essentially. It has not gone from the beginning on this issue; specifically the part of the bodies and scales has always been in the background. And, as everyone knows, this law of what has gone has been about the discussion on measures to proceed with the consolidation of Basque public employment in an autonomous community like ours, which has one of the highest temporality rates in all of Spain. This is no secret; it was recognized by the Basque Government's own Legal Service in that ruling, which was cited by the Counsellor on the Basque Police Act. I have listened with great interest to the counselor's speech, and the truth is that this law, in fact, as I was saying, what was done at the time was a trick, a technique; listen, to be more or less legitimate. But, finally, what was done was to disengage the part of bodies and scales of the Public Employment Act, and to take advantage of that law that would be able to be processed more quickly to include two additional provisions, as everyone knows, that what they intended was to put, propose in this case, a solution to the situation that was lived out of unbearable interinity of the Basque Public Administration. What's been going on? What has happened in this meantime, as the Councillor has also pointed out in part, is that the Constitutional Court declared one of the two additional provisions unconstitutional. That is to say, the first would be allowed, to establish in an exceptional way and for a single time, which is what these provisions usually say. But the second, which was the narrowest competition, declared it unconstitutional. That was the story of this law. And in the meantime, what happened? For, as the Constitutional Court said, in order to establish such more restricted competitions it is necessary to change the basic legislation, in this case the EBEP, the Basic Statute of the Public Employee, which is something that is now being discussed also in the Courts, in the Congress of Deputies and in the Senate. Therefore, any consolidation process that is based on this, on functionalization, is logically subject to and subject to the outcome of that process in the General Courts. In fact, the debate we are having here today, ladies and gentlemen, we will have it again when we come to vote on the next public employment law, right?, the Basque public employment law, which also includes again a number of provisions for the consolidation of public employment. That law is much deeper; indeed, it has many other measures. But, this debate that we are going to have here today, we are going to repeat it again. [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ...consolidation of public employment. That law is much deeper. It does have a lot of other measures, but this debate we are going to have here today is going to repeat it again. During the appearances, which took place in the course of the analysis of the bill sent by the Government, we listened to experts, trade union representatives, etc.; we listened to people with authority in their field to give us their opinion. And the truth is that the great problem, the great problem that this law is understood to have come to solve, which is the high rate of interinity, has not yet been really analyzed how it has to be. That is to say, we still do not have a report today, a really in-depth report, which tells us why we have reached this high interim situation. Of course, we must find a solution to the interim situation in which the Basque administrations find themselves. But what would be very desirable is for the Government to have issued, produced, see that we have asked it sometimes, a report, a study of why we have come to this situation, what is the reason why we have come to this high rate of interinity. The maximum we have achieved is an explanation, it is the principle of identity: things are as they are, the situation is what it is, we all know what the situation is like. Okay, but this isn't an explanation. In order to tackle a problem, and above all not to repeat it again, that this expression that everyone knows, everyone who dedicates himself to the public service knows that they carry these laws exceptionally and for once, how many exceptionally and for once there have been in the Spanish administrations. A lot. In order for that not to be repeated again, it is necessary to really analyze the problem and see why this has really been happening. That said, in the end, what opinion has remained and what bill will end up being voted on and will come forward. Well, well, it's a bill that in the main of the name, in "bodies and scales," does not include any substantial modification. A series of bodies and scales are established. The only amendment we have saved for today's plenary, which we already understand will not go ahead because the groups of the Government do not accept it in terms, was to include the special scale of prison officials, the specific body of prison officials, because that amendment will not go ahead. What will come forward? There will be a bill that, well, could well have gone along with the Public Employment Act, and there will be a provision that, in fact, does qualify for a competition, but does not qualify for a competition, let's say, exceptional, and to really solve the problem, to really solve this problem of the very high rates of interinity. I therefore believe that the fundamental objective sought by the Government is that it has hardly been achieved or is going to be achieved with this law, because the problem is going to remain the same. We are at the expense of seeing what the basic legislation is like in order to be able to undertake the reforms that... or the competitions that are necessary, and we still don't know exactly how the situation can stand. That is the situation we have today, ladies and gentlemen. We are, however, aware of this very serious situation experienced by the Basque administrations. That is why we have facilitated, together with the groups of the Government, a compromise amendment of the final provisions so that when the situation becomes clear, the legislative situation becomes clear, that the Basque Government can eventually, indeed, establish processes within the Autonomous Community at the time. That is something we have contributed to, because we cannot leave the situation in which the thousands of people with an interim job are in, with all that it means. Still, our vote on the whole law is going to be negative. Why is it going to be negative? We only asked for one thing, we only asked for one thing that, in addition, curiously, had to do with what the law itself is. The law is called "the Bodies and Scales of the Administration of the Basque Autonomous Community". If we have just assumed a prison competition, it would be logical for prison officials, which is a scale, is a special body, to have their correspondence in the Basque Autonomous Community. Of course, they can tell me: "man, it's that creating an additional body, it's that again, I don't know how many...". Look, it's that if we have bodies of mathematicians, of statisticians, at last, I don't get involved with these sectors, but if we've already been able to differentiate so much in certain guilds, man, I believe that prison officials have a situation sufficiently specific for them to see recognized a specific body, because they had it in their administration of origin. Now they are going to be in a situation, in an interim, that we will see how that situation ends up being renewed, because, right now, the newly transferred prison officials are in no one's land. That is why we will vote against the opinion. We asked only one thing, we asked only that thing to guarantee our support and, finally, the answer was negative. Therefore, the balance of this law, because it is... I believe that it is a law that has not achieved any of the objectives it sought and that, in fact, what is done is, once again, to postpone until a later moment, which will be the Public Employment Act, the real solution to the problem. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u4	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together the representative of the Podemos Anther, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u5	Good morning, congressmen. On the part of our group, of our coalition, I would like to address the counselor, because when she came to introduce the bill, we certainly moved a wish without any complexes, and it is that this law went forward, and went forward with our support. And that has been the spirit with which we have worked on this law and with which we have also negotiated with parliamentary groups, because we knew that it dealt with important things on which thousands of public workers depend. Unfortunately, the final result, of course, does not satisfy us. I will now explain the reasons for why. But, of course, that was the spirit of our coalition and the truth is that we very much regret the outcome. It is true that the object of the law – the counselor referred to him – was the regulation of bodies and scales. Also changes relating to access to public employment. But the fundamental debate that we have had in this law – Mr Gordillo has also said, and I agree – is the one that has to do with the additional provisions for... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... But the fundamental debate that we have had in this law – Mr Gordillo and I also agree – is the one that has to do with the additional arrangements to get into the problem, because we all knew that we were not going to solve the problem of the very high interinity, the very high temporality that our autonomous community has in public employment. A problem of temporality that – I am going to reaffirm myself in a thesis that we have been maintaining our parliamentary group – does not have so much to do with the laws, which of course influence, but has so much to do with the situation of very high temporality that this autonomous community has in public employment with the political management that has been done. And I also reaffirm myself today in these words after listening to some of the experts who have passed through the Committee of Institutions in relation to both this law and the Public Employment Act, which is also under way in this House. But, on the basis of that analysis that we are doing, we also said, and we have maintained, the fact that these additional provisions could be a step forward, that it would not solve this great problem, but a step forward and that it would favour the situation of many workers in this situation. I understand that the Government is breast-feeding by stating today that the Government is the first to raise this issue. But we all know that this also comes at the impulse of the unions, of the workers' representatives, that these additional provisions were included in this law because this was agreed with a part of the unions, which were two provisions that they demanded for the Public Employment Act and which were included in this law because it was supposed to come before and it was going to be easier to pass than the Public Employment Act. Finally, the time difference isn't going to be so much. That is the first element that somewhat distorts the question of these two additional provisions. The second, of course, is that which the councilwoman herself has pointed out, the Constitutional Court's ruling on another law, but on a provision very similar to the second additional provision of this law, which virtually annulled it. Although, in our opinion, that should not be renunciation to move on with it. In any case, we believe that this is not the only thing that has also distorted these additional provisions. Of course, my group has also made an effort to act on the first additional provision, to improve it, in this sense, and there are our amendments which have not been adopted and which we have today reserved, in this regard, two amendments which act on this so that these processes have more guarantees for these workers to whom we say – and she said today – that we want to value their experience. The fact of mandatoryity, because, as it is now contained in the law, there is no obligation to do those processes. It's at the dawn of different institutions. And to us this, of course, generates a great deal of mistrust with regard to certain institutions whether it is going to be done or not. And set some parameters, like the three years of age, etc. In addition to elements of transparency that we included, it seems to us very important for the workers themselves to know exactly what to do in order to be able to consolidate their jobs. And, in addition, we were acting in another amendment so that the party in which this experience is intended to be valued could have more weight in the phases of competitions, competitions-oppositions and merit. Therefore, we do not see in this part, in the additional provisions, everything that could have been reflected in order to improve, to improve these objectives within the legal certainty to which the counsellor has referred. And this is an important element in marking the position today in the vote of our group. Regarding the content of the law, its articulation, what should be the object, in reality, of the debate if there was not this other element, which of course politically and because there are many people behind it, in fact, is more important, but the object of the law to regulate the bodies and scales. The truth is, we haven't found... It is true that there has been, and I am grateful for it, a negotiating spirit on the part of the groups that support the Government. But then we have not found a reflection in the amendments on the regulation of bodies and scales. And, above all, we made proposals on some bodies and scales which we thought should have been collected and which today are very important, I mean, for example, I am going to quote the one on equality, other groups have also proposed other types of bodies and scales which we thought were interesting and which we voted in favour of in committee and which today we will also vote in favour of certain amendments reserved by other groups because they seemed interesting to us and which are not finally going to be in law. We had also proposed that all jobs should be assigned on a single scale and that the scale, rather than being so restricted to very specific qualifications, should be open to different qualifications, with the aim of ensuring that specialization and training were demonstrated with greater weight of access tests and not so much by a specific qualification. Because some unions also warned us of the problems that the model that will emerge from this law can generate, that it can solve some things of the current model, but that it can create new problems. We believe that, of course, this law will not solve the high problems of temporality rates. But we regret, above all, that it is not even going to be a breakthrough in that problem. Therefore, the position of our group, unfortunately, is quite different from that with which we initially approached this law. And of course it does not have enough elements for our group to support it. And I have to tell you that I am sorry, because it was a law in which, of course, we had made a commitment that something might come out that, of course, would not fully satisfy us, but that would be a breakthrough. We do not see that progress in this law, and therefore we do not see it at this time as the best law this Parliament could pass on the issues it intends to regulate. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u6	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours. [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ...Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Galástegui is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u7	Thank you, President. Good morning, councillors, councillors, ladies and gentlemen, egun on guztioi. Well, today we are discussing the adoption of the Law on Bodies and Scales of the Administration of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, which is a project that was approved, as the Councillor said, in the Governing Council on 1 December last year and was referred to this Parliament for processing. And today we are bringing to debate a legal text that is going to comply substantially with the nuclear objects, with the nuclear objectives for which it was presented, which are no more than organizing and rationalizing public employment with the aim of achieving a rational, effective, efficient, professional public administration that responds above all in the best way possible to the needs of Basque citizens, but not only that, because this law also has the intention of facilitating, as the adviser said, the processes of access to public employment and adapting the structure of the administrative organization to this new framework resulting from the incorporation into Bologna, and therefore of seeking better management of the human resources of our administration. They will agree with me, I am sure, that the essence of public administrations is their human resources, which, in short, guarantee the proper functioning and quality of the public services they provide. And in this sense, and as is obvious, the ordination and structuring is of transcendental importance. I am not going to go into the background on the opportunity of this law, because the adviser has already explained it in relation to the Basque Public Service Act of 89 as in the Law of 1/2004 of 25 February of Ordination of Bodies and Scales, already establishes and reflects that structure, but the fact is that years have passed, time does not pass in vain, and as a consequence of the time elapsed on the one hand, the need to adapt bodies and subgroups, groups and subgroups to that new classification established in the Royal Legislative Decree 5/2015, which approves the Law on the Basic Status of the Public Employee, the new qualifications created and, above all, also the updating of the professional profiles of certain jobs, it is necessary to proceed to a new regulation of the Bodies and Scales and in this we are, but therefore, it is clear that it is an absolutely necessary law. On the other hand, it has a component, let's say, less nuclear, but no less important, and I say no less nuclear, because originally it was not intended and I have a different reading of this matter, which I am going to explain, and as I said, it does not seem to me to be any less important, on the contrary, and it is intended to help in an important way, to regulate the high temporality and interinity of which the Basque administration is suffering, because indeed the abuse of temporary recruitment in the administration is an obvious fact, (?We all agree that it has reached levels that are difficult to achieve. We in the Socialist Group therefore believe that it is necessary, absolutely necessary, I believe that the law is important, I give it more importance than that given to it by Mr Hernández in this case, to regulate it is necessary, to regulate measures to give a definitive solution and with legal certainty to all those public employees who are suffering from this situation. That is so, while respecting the constitutional principles of equality, merit, capacity and publicity and the right of citizens to access to public service. The consolidation and stabilization of employment, therefore, is one of the objectives pursued by this rule, indeed, although in purity the original regulatory framework did not foresee these extremes. And in that sense I want to outline one thing and I think it is appropriate to make a mention of the important contributions of certain unions, of certain unions, could give the name, but I think they will know, that they opened the door to consolidation through this law by going beyond the two transitional provisions 19 and 20 since the Public Employment Bill. Thus, two special consolidation processes were effectively included in this Act through the additional provisions that it is talking about worldwide, the first and the second of the draft. Indeed, no one is unaware of the vicissitudes resulting from the ruling of the Constitutional Court in relation to the second paragraph of the tenth transitional provision of the Fifth Amendment Bill of the Police Act which was declared unconstitutional and its absolute similarity with the second additional provision that we provided for in the law that we adopted today. As you know, this provision provided for a consolidation procedure in classification groups with high percentages of interinity consisting of incorporating the special process provided for in the first additional provision, which is actually maintained in the draft, a differentiated access shift for those who met certain requirements, obviously, in the light of the full content of the declaration of unconstitutionality, it was considered appropriate to submit an amendment of deletion, as well as a compromise amendment which provides for the possibility of conducting special consolidation processes through competition under the provisions of the basic legislation. And here, ladies and gentlemen, that here I, from the Socialist Group, will remind you that in the General Courts, in the Congress of Deputies, where each and every parliamentary group present in this House is represented, the royal decree that we all know of of of 14/2021 of 6 July of Urgent Measures for the Reduction of Timeliness in Public Employment emanating from the Government of President Pedro Sánchez, which has a very high degree of support from the trade union representation, from the representation of workers and workers... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ... which has a very high degree of support from the trade union representation, from the representation of the public workers, which is going to bring to the fore substantial and nuclear issues the object we are dealing with, if we are talking, as everyone says, about how central it is to tackle the rates of temporality. It is going to lead, as I say, to a legal framework for updating the Basic Staff Regulations and other rules, in order to reduce temporaryity and reduce the rates of such temporaryity and interinity below 8%. How? With the elimination of the replacement rates we are talking about, and with the definitive structuralisation of the structural squares. So, to finish, I invite all groups to preach... not only to preach, to preach by example, but also to give wheat and support, and to create agreements and to make sufficient agreements in this process. And finally, indeed, to point out that, of course, from the groups that support the Government in a frank, open and direct way, an attempt has been made to reach an agreement. A more global agreement, an agreement... but it has not been possible, despite, as I say, the important, serious and frank attempts. So, in any case, it is up to the groups to recognize their willingness to agree. And this time it has failed, but in the end, there will be other occasions. I hope that we will reach wider agreements on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs Garcia, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u9	Thank you, ma'am. And good morning to all. Today the law, which we shall discuss and beggarly, began to grow up a year ago. And, even if it be said, I also wish to remember the two ends which were set upon this law: one was to regulate the interests and scales of the Public Administration, and the second to stabilize public employment. For this second purpose, this law raised the great interest of many unions and interrogative workers, and so did the spectivity. The same chief physician, in the representation of the law, told us that it was one of the object of this law to solve the principal problems of the Public Administration. Today, in the VAC, more than 55,000 people, in some administrations almost half of the staff, work for the public administration in a situation of temporaryity, and in most cases, we can say in a situation of abuse or fraud. This means that most of these workers, through temporary recruitment, are covering structural and permanent jobs in the public service. The rate of chance of public employment in our community is not the result of chance, but the result of concrete policies, and the result of a recruitment model that has been applied for decades. Years have passed without anything being done, as the rates of temporality went up and chronized. And while replacement rates have not helped ease the problem, scandalous interinity rates have come from before. And this is happening in the General Administration, in the Educational Administration, in Osakidetza, in Lanbide, in Osalan..., basic and essential public services that are being provided under conditions of precariousness, of instability of the staff, and for many years in many cases. During the time of law-making, just over six months ago, we asked the Counsellor about this issue to know what the Government's intentions were, because temporary public employees have been waiting too long for uncertainty. Estanzuna zen Gobernuak Euskal Administraziko behin-behinekotasun rate altua murrizteko prozesuekin konpromiso being the zuela, prozesua geldiezina zeala, age borondatea eta determination immoaz hitz egin zigun. He was a Bereran, he was a shopkeeper and the karrizketan without duel, he was a horregatik gai hauek shopkeeper, mahai, and he was scavenging lantenzen ari zela. He also told us that the law of bodies and scales was a crucial law in order to be able to face the approval and the realization of a consolidation process through the call for a public offer of employment in 2021, and that, precisely because of this, it had been sent with the utmost agility to the House, with a view to its early approval. He told us that all parliamentary groups would have the opportunity to position themselves with concrete proposals, and that they considered that the project had sufficient legal backing for proper processing. Well, none of this that the counselor told us a few months ago, in our opinion, has been fulfilled. It must be acknowledged, from the beginning, that there have been not many reasons for being optimistic. For the same law which had been introduced in the former legislation has been brought to the legislature by the Government, which was left independent, though it was known that the additional regulations, which regulated the disputes of the public employment, had the disagreement of most unions in the pre-prejudicing legislation, and in this too. Of the 22 amendments that Euskal Herria Bildu has tabled, only one has been accepted: the one that asks to include negotiation with trade unions in the preparation of the employment relationship; the rest has been rejected. We have rejected the change we have proposed in the name of "Superior Corps", because it suggests, in our opinion, and leads to confusion with an artificial classification of hierarchical titles that does not exist today. Consequence, as the adviser has said, of the Bologna Plan, as is the already obsolete Superior-Senior-Titling Body and Medium-Senior Technical-Grade Body. The amendment containing a historical claim from nursing staff has also been rejected for inclusion on a Nursing scale in the Optional Superior Body. Its non-inclusion also responds to the previous differentiation, "Licenciatura-Diplomature", which does not exist today. Nursing requires the degree qualification, which enables it to be incorporated as a profession also in the Higher Scale. The refusal to include the nursing scale in the optional higher body, a profession made up of 83 % by women, means contributing to the deepening of the women's wage gap, as representatives of the trade union have denounced... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... 83% of the women's profession contributes to the widening of the women's wage gap, as reported by representatives of the SATSE union at their recent appearance in committee. The amendment incorporating the demand of the faculty of political sciences of the UPV to include this degree in the scale of economy and enterprise has also been rejected. It was about incorporating related disciplines, as has already been done in other communities. All the amendments concerning the regulation of extraordinary processes of consolidation of temporary public employment, as well as the amendment calling for a diagnosis of the totality of public employment, both that which needs to be consolidated and that which needs to be created, have also been rejected. The position of the government parties has been to negotiate the second provision with the PP, leaving the interinity of public employment unresolved. In Euskal Herria Bildu, we disagree with this provision negotiated by PNV-PSE with the PP, because, in our opinion, they frustrate the expectations that the same government created when presenting this law as the instrument to consolidate public employment by giving a way out of the situation, as we have said, of more than 55,000 people working in the different Basque public administrations. On the other hand, the government's position with the PP's transaction eludes to make basic commitments to end the temporaryity of employment and is presented to the unions and to this collective of workers without more offer and without more proposal than is decided from Madrid. As we say, PNV-PSE, with its agreement with the PP, avoids making basic commitments in order to offer a just way out of the interim. It must also comply, as you know, with the European Directive and the relevant judicial decisions. Two are the basic commitments that have not been included in the Act. One is the commitment to have a negotiating will to agree with trade union representatives the extraordinary processes of consolidating employment into abuse or fraud. And three are the key elements that must be incorporated into this commitment: the collective aimed at more than three years of age; flexible consolidation processes – because, as we have said, these consolidation processes must also serve in the terms stated by the judicial decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union to compensate for the situation of instability that thousands of public employees are enduring for long periods of time, which we do not forget, have been denied the option of consolidating employment because no public job offers have been called for; and the other element that should be incorporated, which is also not mentioned in the Law, is that we have to set a target, and that objective must be to place the rate of temporaryity below 8%, which is what we approve of Europe. And the second commitment, which they have eluded, is to make a diagnosis. As I said, it is not only about consolidating employment, but it is also necessary to create employment, for example, employment which is temporary today, but as a result of its maintenance in time and coverage of permanent tasks, it must be classified as structural – I am thinking of Osakidetza – or the public employment needed as a result of the revision of ratios and workloads, as is the case in the education and health field. None of these commitments I have mentioned are reflected in this law. And in conclusion, for Euskal Herria Bildu, the Law of Bodies and Scales that is voted on today is a failed law, which is born without responding to the great challenge assigned to it by the Government itself, as it is to put an end to the scandalous rates of temporaryity in the public employment of the Basque administrations. And for the reasons stated, we'll vote against the Basque People. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Eubertarians, Mrs. Laruri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of staff, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. Today we will accept the commission's evaluation from 25th October, and with it the Euscadian Kidego and Scanal Act. This Law of Bodies and Scales of Euskadi is a key, essential law – it seems that we always say the same, but it really is – that will allow us to order access to public employment by adapting the requirements for qualifications to new ones, to the current fields of study, and to give a greater appreciation to the experience of people who are currently working in public organizations. And with it, thus, reduce the temporality and give stability, all in balance with the new incorporations and the generational relief. And all this will be key, essential to... will be key and essential tools for the next OPEs that are around the corner. And both goals are important. Some spokesmen said that it seems that this law focuses exclusively on a part. No, you can't understand one part without the other, both parts are key. We have not been able to achieve it, we have not been able to reach a comprehensive agreement today. We're sorry. It is true that certain issues have been accepted and an important section with the People-Citizens group has been set up on the second additional provision on consolidation processes, but in other respects it has not been possible to go further. In that regard, I would like to thank the Group of the People's Party-Citizens for their willingness, although we regret that it will not finally support the law solely because it does not accept a complete amendment on a very specific scale, which refers to the scale of penal institutions, when you, Mr Gordillo, say that this law seems to be reduced to one thing and then it turns out that you are not going to support it exclusively because you do not accept a scale of institutions. Look at everything this law speaks about, the whole ordination of bodies and scales, the whole system, which is going to avoid a lot of resources, which is going to order access, also gives rise to or leaves open a door to consolidation. And you will reject it exclusively because you do not accept one, that concrete scale, which also made a partial offer, that you do not... They rejected her because they wanted to stay in integrity, but good. We do not share it, but we understand that it is his political strategy. And as for the rest of the groups, well, thank you for the disposition, truly and sincerely, of the disposition that has existed in the dialogue and the negotiation, although finally no agreement has been reached because so much... [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ... As for the rest of the groups, well, thank you for the disposition, truly and sincerely, of the disposition that has existed in the dialogue and the negotiation, although finally no agreement has been reached because both Elkarrekin Podemos has remained in its initial position and there has been no form, although it has offered to modulate certain issues, and EH Bildu we were until the previous afternoon, but neither, because, well, it seems to be meeting another strategy. In any case, the course of this law and its current content is not casual, it has evolved not in a capricious way, but in order to adapt to a legal context jurisprudential and of current necessity and always, as always, we say with the maximum legal guarantee, a complete processing that began in the Basque Government with the previous team and that has continued with the current team, which had an agreement or majority support of the trade union representation in which these two consolidation provisions were included, which were initially contained in the Public Employment Act. As we say, it has had a... it has had a complete processing in the Basque Government with all its documents, with trade union negotiations, and that does not mean that the development instruments from tomorrow will not continue to be negotiated, and also with an agreement. The Governing Council adopted the bill at the end of 2020 and has subsequently been referred to this Parliament. To stress at this point that the Basque Government has been a pioneer in this area despite the external constraints that have arisen. And in that parliamentary procedure, well, it has been dealt with during the year 2021 with successive extensions of amendments, papers, commissions, and today we arrive at the plenary. We arrive at the plenary with a law conditioned on its content, that we cannot discuss. But because of the new jurisprudential and normative context, but not without utility, not for that reason a failed law, as some groups claim to call it, is a very useful law. And in this journey, in this context, in this change, in this conditioning has been substantial or decisive the ruling of the Constitutional Court, as the councillor said, the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 18 February 2021 against the Basque Police Act adopted by this Parliament in 2019, and that ruling nullifies a provision identical or very similar to that contained in this draft law in its initial drafting, because, and court, that court, although we do not share it, considers that this Parliament does not have jurisdiction until the basic legislation of the State is amended. We protested against that constitutional remedy, as did the legal services of the Chamber in defence of the law approved by Parliament and the Basque Government itself. And see how important or decisive are the times that the same week the councilwoman presented the bill in Parliament was known a few days later that sentence that annulled precisely a content that contained that bill. And here we're not talking about excuses or lack of political will, it's a reality, the context has changed and here we can't hit the wall, we're talking about very serious issues, we don't want to waste any time, no illusions, no winnings for so many people who are playing their future or who are... who have their working condition in the air. Here we are looking for options, serious options with legal guarantees, and so, EAJ-PNV in its different areas continues to take steps and, in other words, in the different areas of competition. On the one hand, the State, and that is where the basic legislation is being amended, on the one hand, with a revision of the Basic Staff Regulations, of the EBEP as we know it, and on the other hand, with the General Budgets of the State, which also include some provision for basic legislation on public employment which in recent years seems to be trending in this so-called silent erosion, but well, that is another issue. In any case, the group, our group in Congress, participates and negotiates on both lines, both in the reform of the EBEP and in the General Budgets of the State, mainly on two lines, in that of concreteizing and shaping these consolidation processes, but speaking of people and consolidating people, not of consolidating positions. In any case, we continue to make progress, on the other hand, in eliminating replacement rates or similar concepts with other names that continue to exist and that continue to limit self-organisation capacity. And well, we hope that they will succeed, that they will succeed in these negotiations and agreements and that they will really give a solution to the public administrations in order to reduce the temporality and in particular to the administration, to the public administrations of Euskadi. And this is not an excuse, it is not a lack of will in Euskadi. No, it's just that there's a reality that a sentence two days ago has said that you have to change that basic state legislation and the reality is that it is. And the second area we are in is in Euskadi, which we continue to advance, that we cannot paralyze, that there are aspects in which we can follow, that we can regulate as is this law, because we have some OPEs around the corner that cannot be paralyzed. And Mr Hernández said that there is not going to be much difference of time between this law and the Public Employment Act, we do not know exactly what it is going to be, but it will be decisive, because this law has to regulate aspects that have to contain the OPEs, that have to leave before the end of the year, because if those places are not lost, so speaking a little bit, they expire, those places lapse with the regulations that we have in force at the moment, with which the times are substantial and we cannot paralyze it and in that we are, in that goes this law and so we highlight, we again highlight the importance of this law, on the one hand in the field of... in the objective of bodies and management scales, because it will clarify many aspects of face to formation and qualifications, that it will avoid many resources, that it will avoid wasting much time to the people. On the other hand, the issue of consolidation through these two additional provisions. The first, which gives greater appreciation to the experience, especially of the convoking administration, of the convoking public administration, and the second, which gives a possibility for Basque public administrations to convene consolidation processes, even with competition, which are not actually determined, the aspects of the competition are not specified, because it is understood that at this time it is not possible and moreover part will also correspond to the trade union negotiation. And all this always within the framework that results from the legislation that is already being amended, and in addition we add a third final provision that comes as a result of the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group and us Euzko Abertzaleak, which is related to the retirement of staff, which establishes common criteria for all public administrations with a view to regular retirement or extension in active service. And all this without forgetting, in fact, that this law is a law..., it is not an integral law, nor has it pretended to be, it has never been deceived. It is a law with specific aspects and indeed the complete model of Basque public employment will be contained in the Public Employment Act of Euskadi, which is currently being processed in... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ... And indeed, the complete model of Basque public employment will be contained in the Basque Public Employment Act, which is currently being dealt with in Parliament. And therefore for all this, we think it essential to accept this law, because it will be a fundamental instrument in the following EPEES. Thus we may advance in the organization of public employment; reduce the temporary element, in favor of stability, with new access and hereditary generations. And that's why, as has been clear, we vote against the checks reserved by the team, and we vote for the committee's judgment and the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. The representative of the Basque Popular-Ciudadans must not speak a word. Together, Podemos-Nozzer representatives of the Animate Party, yes. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u13	Thank you. I take the floor to refer to three elements in relation to what Mrs Larrauri said in her last speech. Firstly, on the references to the trade union agreement – which I too have spoken about – by which these additional provisions were included in this law. An agreement with the unions, indeed a minimum agreement. They have already explained to us in this commission and I have explained it before why they accepted that it was in this law, why a law in which some unions said: "We do not agree with the law, but if these two additional provisions of minimums are included, we give it the OK", they have explained it. Why do we think it's expired? And we have also understood this when they went through this committee again in this legislature. Firstly, of course, because the second additional provision is not in place. I will not enter into the debate on the responsibility of each group or Government for a provision that we may know will be declared unconstitutional. But that is an element that shows that this trade union agreement is also out of date. Because, moreover, that provision was the most important for trade unions, regardless of who we put the responsibility for why it is not in the law. I don't know if I'm explaining myself, if the counselor is understanding me. I think so. Secondly, because some of the improvements that the social partners also proposed to us with regard to the first additional provision, for example, proposed to us improvements with regard to the second additional provision, but also with regard to the first additional provision, different groups have acted through our amendments here. Our group has been, I will say, very pragmatic. We have not made an amendment to the second additional provision. We had the proposals of the unions to modify it. We have made the first, within those legal limits to which the Councilwoman has referred, Mrs Larrauri too, with elements that could better give concrete expression to these processes so that they can be carried out: one, I have mentioned earlier, that of compulsory, and another, that of the three years of reference of old. Mrs. Larrauri, I don't know if I understand you correctly, but if I don't, I detect a contradiction, because you said, "You can't." And he said, "You can't because it corresponds to collective bargaining." Can't or can't? It can be. Another thing is that we discuss whether it really corresponds to collective bargaining or whether it would be better. But these elements that we include also put them on the table or have put it on the table by different social actors that will, logically, lead to collective bargaining. A collective negotiation that has also been requested by the Government to come before and before the adoption of the law. Because indeed – and in that I agree with Mrs Larrauri – there is very little time left for some processes. The year is about to end. Moreover, I think you already know perfectly well that we have had this pragmatic attitude precisely because we know that behind there are many workers who depend on it, on these temporary ones. But, as is the law, we have no guarantee that this is going to be... will translate into consolidation processes in these institutions by the end of the year. It's going to depend on political will. And we, of course, because in the opposition it seems to us that this contained in the law, as we proposed, gave more guarantees. I will simply refer to some of the amendments which we have reserved and which we have asked for the vote in favour and which I have not mentioned before: the gender equality scale, yes, and the social work scale too, which I have not mentioned before, and which we believe is important for them to be in this new regulation. And then, one thing that matters to me. I think Mrs Larrauri knows that too because we talked about it. All groups know that, because we've talked about it. We proposed to eliminate the administrative assistant body and scale, because this in the public administration happens as in the private company: administrative assistants, we all know that a very important part, in the end, do administrative tasks with worse conditions and wages. And we believe that a law like this must also seek to eliminate precariousness, which we call precariousness in employment. And we thought that this measure was aimed at that. And they are, logically, the categories that have the least wages. And that is another of the amendments that we maintain and that I personally also consider important within a law that will certainly deal with much more important things. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u14	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Gallaustgui mustn't speak a word. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u15	Thank you again. The Public Basque Administration should be a model for the stability of employment, but instead it has become an emlegator with the highest rates. Today the Kidego and the Scanal Act have lost its opportunity of increasing public services during the stability of public employment. The lack of a response to interinity from the political point of view has led many public employees to judicialize the possible solution. While in the name of legal certainty the government parties justify that this law does not offer any solution to temporaryity, there are many judicial decisions that have already condemned Basque public administrations for violating domestic law and the European directive on temporary recruitment. It's about guarantees... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ... Basque public administrations for violating internal rules and the European temporary recruitment directive. There is talk of legal guarantees and of not generating false expectations, but that should also serve for this government to refrain from propaganda, with public offers of employment that are never carried out. The break-up of the Constitutional Court, through its ruling, questioning the competence of the courts, highlights the vulnerability of our self-government, but this should not make us give up in the bid for strong public services, based on quality employment, and dimensioned in attention to our reality and needs of Basque society, requiring the Spanish Government to respect our area of decision. All this, as stated in the amendment negotiated between Euskal Herria Bildu and Podemos on 22 April, but which did not receive the acceptance of the government parties either. But, in the conflict of interim persons, in addition to the limit of competence, it has also not helped the lack of political will of the parties of the Government. And I tell you the truth: we don't know very well where each of these limits begins and ends. To date, the Government has not demonstrated any bargaining power with trade unions, and has maintained a closed position. And there is a strike in the Basque public services on April 22, convened by all trade unions. The agreement on our amendments, I understand, has not been possible because, in the negotiation, the parties of the Government have not wanted to include in the law the elements they commit in order to give a just solution to the internal workers; they have not wanted to. And these elements, I repeat, are to direct these consolidation processes to people in temporality over three years old. Flexible consolidation processes, which make it easier for people who are in the interim to remain in employment. I would like to stress once again that we should set the target of putting the rate of temporaryity in the Basque public administrations below 8%, which is what we approve of Europe. And these elements have not been intended to be incorporated into the law. We are talking about legal certainty, but these elements have not been invented by Euskal Herria Bildu; they are the ones resulting from compliance with the European Directive on the prevention of fraud in temporary recruitment. European Union law prevails over domestic law, and legal guarantees also derive from its enforcement. Government parties, as I said before, have also refused to include in the law the realization within six months of the entry into force of a diagnosis, not only of temporary public employment – as I said before – but also of which it is necessary to create, all through negotiation with trade union organizations. There has been, as I have said, no political will to keep the subject of the temporary employment of the public. No doubt it's legitimate, but I admit it's frustrating even if you use the majority of the government to accept a law that doesn't support the unions, because they remain as unacceptable as the temporary rate of temporary temporary elections in the Basque public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Eubertarians, Mrs. Laruri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u17	Thank you again, Mrs. President. And, well, that's it. A small reference, Mr Hernández, that you took part in the second round, in relation to the amendments; well, it does not give everything time at times. It is true that the reason for the non-acceptance of the amendments has already been moved, both in the meetings we had and then in the presentation and committee. But, with regard to equality, for example, the creation of the equality scale that you have appointed, you were already told that it could be modulated. But, of course, what was said was that that, the issue of the specificity of equality, will be addressed at later stages of the process, and there is no need to create a scale. Obviously, there is a degree, there is a specificity, also in many other degrees, but that can be addressed, as specificity, at later times. And then, the issue of consolidation that you say. It is that you concretely, wanted to concretely too much at this time. And what we were saying, and in fact it was offered to be able to reach an agreement between its first and our second, but what was not possible was to come to such a conclusion those aspects that are dependent at this time on the basic legislation of the State. On the other hand, it is contradictory for us that, on the one hand, it is dependent and that certain things that are pending in the basic legislation of the State cannot be legislated here with the rank of law, with which they are also the subject of collective bargaining. It's just that it's not contradictory. That is, it is not that it cannot be; it is that on the one hand it depends, and on the other it will be a matter of collective bargaining. And as for your position in the law, you've come up with a profile. It has been much more comfortable to profile and pass the law, to do others, to solve others, and to solve the problems – in this case – of public employment and to reduce time. And that goes for all groups. Much easier than others to approve, and we maintain ourselves in the critique, profile, or non-eternal, maintaining a maximalistic position. And as for EH Bildu, well, he says that with a law with trade union opposition. That's not true. That's not true. No, it's not. This law had the pass, at the time, of the trade union majority. He did. And besides, he was corrected by a union representative a couple of weeks ago in the committee: he told him that was not true. That the only one who had voted against was ELA, and he said, "What we're used to." They're not my words, they're those of that union representative. With this, he had had the majority support of the trade union representation. Yeah, that's right. Another thing is that now, because of the context we all know, and of course not, either by this parliamentary group or by the Basque Government, the context has changed and the content has been limited by that ruling that we say of the Constitutional Court, which is not a whim. And you there are going to say that there is no political will, and that is not true either. There is no political will, no; it is a reality. It is a reality that the competition frameworks are what they are. And you should already update that speech of submission, to say: our weak self-government. Of course, we are defending our competences and empowering self-government. But they should already update that speech of "it's that we're submissive to the state." You're the ones who, day after day, are getting... [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ...and empowering self-government. But they should already update that speech of "it's that we're submissive to the state." You are the ones who, day after day, are taking photos the first, "I, I, volunteer, I first" to take pictures with the state government. In return, in principle, for nothing, without seeing a number, without seeing a number in the State's general budgets, which also contain forecasts of public employment, without seeing a condition. Nor do we know whether, in this negotiation of the General Budgets of the State, you have already achieved, you have tied up some question to reduce the temporality in Euskadi. So, don't say, don't talk about the unwillingness of others. Of course, we bet to continue to provide solutions, looking for solutions to reduce public employment, to reduce, forgive, the temporality in public employment in Euskadi. And there we reach out to them, we reach out to all groups, to continue seeking solutions. And we can do nothing but defend this Law. And in this case, we appreciate the will or work done by the Basque Government in its Governance Department in the previous team, current team; parliamentary/parliamentary colleagues; technical services of the Chamber, technical and legal support that have allowed this law to reach the plenary today. And because of the fact that we have all succeeded in bringing this law to plenary today. And as far as I'm concerned, I didn't know if I could get here today to defend this point for my advanced state of pregnancy, which has been possible and very satisfying. Eskerrik asko guztioi and see you around.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. End of discussion, we'll start our vote. He's going to vote for the reconnaissance reserved by the Basque Popular-Cranos team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 74; the supporters 12; the opponents are 62; abstentions, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u19	So it's not accepted. If we keep quiet, it's much better, otherwise... Much better. They're going together to vote together with Podemos-Nozzer 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 of corrections made on the articles of judgment. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 74; on the side 26; the opponents are 42; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u20	They weren't allowed. They're going to vote together Podemos-Nozzer, 9, 13 and 14. Corrections made on the articles of judgment. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 74; the supporters 5; the contrary is 48; the abstations are 21; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u21	So they didn't accept it. They'll go to vote together with the EH Collection Groups reserved corrections made for the recording articles. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 74; the supporters 12; the opponents are 62; abstentions, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u22	So it's not accepted. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 74; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 26; the opposites 48; the abstainments, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u23	So they didn't accept it. The articles of criticism that have been corrected together are put to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 41; the opponents are 33; abstations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u24	So they've been accepted. The 16th article of judgment is put into vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 74; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 69; the opposites 0; abstaining, 5; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u25	So it's accepted. The second act of judgment is put into vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 74; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 69; the opposites 0; abstaining, 5; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u26	So it's accepted. The third regulation of the judgment is put into vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 74; the votes given, 74; in favour of 48; in the contrary, 0; abstaining, 26; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u27	So it's accepted. The other articles of judgment that have never been corrected together, we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 74; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 41; the opponents, 33; abstainations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u28	They're approved. The explanation and the name of the law are agreed on, we can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 74; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 41; the opponents, 33; abstainations, 0; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u29	So they're allowed to do so, and the Eunomy Autonomy Administration Membership and Scanal Act is generally approved. A vote description... No. Second point on the subject list: "The Bill of the Education Committee, made on the bill of law to accept Eune-Euniz as a private University of the Eune Autonomy as a private university in the Erdi. Discipline and final resolution. So, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, he must not speak. Do any of the members of the board want to vote for the dictatorship? - Isn't it? We're going to join the teams' turn. Misses, Mrs Martínnez is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u30	Thank you, Madam President, very briefly, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. What we say from Vox is that welcome be Euneiz, welcome be the companies and entities that are behind and welcome be specialization and talent. Since Vox we have already said this in the presentation of the Euneiz Recognition Bill as a private university and today we insist on it again. Education is a fundamental pillar of the future and prosperity of our nation. Linked to this is the freedom to learn or to chair, it is a right that assists all students and that implies the freedom of students to choose their studies in universities that they consider, whether public or private. As a society, it is important to ensure that new generations are well trained, that they aspire to achieve their goals at the hands of the best specialists, the best trained and the most experienced. Aspire to excellence is what makes professionals great, whatever their area of competence. Having said that, in Vox we defend the right to free establishment of centres in the university sphere, we reject objections based on political and partisan criteria, as well as the debate on the public and the private, because the important thing is that the university imparts quality and also imparts, apart from quality, excellence, so we will approve this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u31	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr Barri is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u32	Thank you, President, Lehendakari, advisers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all and to all, Madam President. Today is an important day, I think it is a historic day too, the passing of a law is usually a historic day, it is passing a law, but this one has special characteristics. Euneiz, the private university, becomes a new university to enrich our educational and cultural life, to provide knowledge and to make a proposal from the private initiative oriented towards training, oriented towards vocational training, and specialized in new areas of knowledge. And it's a historic day for the Basque Country and for this city, for Vitoria. This city is further magnified by this new university contribution. It is a social success, as is the establishment of a large company, as is the establishment of a large logistics center or as will the arrival of the AVE, that is, it is a social success this new university reality. And being also private initiative, it is an expression that this society is alive and wants to bring ideas, new proposals that develop it. The counselor here today also has to feel a great emotion. It has been successful with the impetus of this Euneiz University and today Parliament is going to be successful with the adoption of its Creation Law. This law will perfectly establish the framework of action in which Euneiz will develop, its activity, together with the rest of the regulations that affect the university system in which this new university will be integrated. We have to thank the promoters from this Parliament for their commitment to Vitoria and to education and for enriching our academic and educational projection. A commitment that translates into important investments, in job creation, in attracting students from other parts of the world and in complementing and completing the Basque university map... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... in job creation, in attraction of students from other parts and in complementing and completing the Basque university map on which to live this new university with the University of the Basque Country, with the University of Deusto, with the University of Mondragon, with the National University of Distance Education, which also works here. I mean, he's gonna complete a college map with this new private expression. We are indeed faced with a source of opportunities and creative and innovative activity. That's how it is. It is an opportunity that, of course, we cannot waste. My group has not tabled any amendments because it fully understands the agreement reached by the promoter group, the promoters of Euneiz with the Basque Government on the draft law. We accept, yes, the amendments of the Basque Nationalist Group, the Socialist Group, because it is also part of the agreement with the promoters and the new regulatory expressions around the university system. It was logical, and that is why we voted in favour of these amendments, as we will now do in the whole opinion. Naturally, in this respect, we will vote against the amendments, as we did in committee, to the amendments which EH Bildu maintains in relation to for-profit. We also did so against the amendment to the whole of Elkarrekin Podemos. Because, let's see, having managed this university experience well in other parts of Spain, having managed this university experience well, having been beneficial, having obtained benefits – in particular, in Catalonia – has led them to be able to invest in Vitoria, to be able to invest in the Basque Country and to create a new university based on a successful experience. Other private universities also invest in other parts of the world, and we have it close by, the experiences of universities we know here, how they invest elsewhere by new sources of knowledge. That is, if benefits have been obtained, from the university, they have invested in setting up a university here, that is, they have been employed in continuing to do university, and we have been the beneficiaries in that regard. That is, we must not confuse the issues. Here the important thing is that the laws are complied with and that the new university is of quality, that it respects the rules, that is what its commitment is, and that is the fundamental element. Of course, it is clear that these amendments by EH Bildu, such as the amendment of the whole he tabled, move in this pathological mistrust of private initiative. Of course, something that we do not share from the People-Citizens group; we know and see that these kinds of initiatives are an expression of a living society, a powerful society, a society that is enriched and that brings to the whole. I mean, that's why we're voting in favour. It is great news for Vitoria, and for the Basque Country, the creation of a new university. And in that sense, we are very satisfied. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u33	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr Martínez-Izón, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u34	Good morning. Thank you, ma'am. Partners. Today is not a normal day, because a new education for euscal education or high education, a new private university, and a college based on ends, will be tested today. Nobody's going to call attention to our position as a negative. Thus we expressed ourselves in the correction of our whole system; and thus we express at the present day, for different reasons, not because we have a pathological opposite to the private man, but because we make a strong and deep wager for the quality of education, and also because we make a deep stake for a public university. And also because he who testifies today doesn't fulfill the regulations which the university system regulates, the minimal requisits it says to be a college. And again, we repeat, that with this trial, there will be a private college, a new university, that will enter euscal education, a Gothic education. Yeah, we've got two more, but this is because it's got the idea of winning this news. From Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, from the first day we were critical of the project, but not for a pathology against the private university or the private education system; we were critical because the arguments that both Unibasq, the university quality agency, as well as the unions of university education, as the student of university education in Euskadi, as that of experts and experts who have come to appear in the presentation have clearly pointed out that this project, balizko unibertsitate-proiektu hau ez duela betetzen araudia. It does not meet the minimum requirements for being a university. It did not meet the above requirements set out in the previous Royal Decree of the Government of the State, much less meet the requirements of the Royal Decree of the Ministry of Universities recently approved and in force since August. Therefore, the first irregularity to be approved today. We have been pointing out that it does not comply with that royal decree. That the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party especially know, that they do not comply, and will be approved. And the amendments drafted by the company and tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party – which, by the way, reached some groups earlier than the rest, we must also say – are a sham that does not solve the problems that this bill has. Because the fact of removing the mentions to the faculties and the degrees that this university is going to have does not conceal that the law, to do so, is based on a memory presented to the Basque Government, which according to Unibasq and according to objective data compared to the Royal Decree in force, does not comply to be accredited as university. You know it, it's going to pass. It's okay, let's hope everything goes very well, but the facts are those. One of the elements we have referred to all this time is that it does not meet the minimum requirements to be recognized as... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ... One of the elements we have referred to all this time is that it does not meet the minimum requirements for being recognized as a university. Mr. Barrio said that the company has experience in university education. It is true, as university schools attached to other university centers in Catalonia. Never like a college. We have always said that we were not going to refuse to approve this as a university attached to another university, but not, in any case, as a university as such, because it does not meet the requirements. Because you have compared with the UNED, the UPV, the University of Mondragon and the University of Deusto, all of them, which meet the requirements and are also close to meeting the requirements of the new royal decree, by experience and by other circumstances. But this college, by no means. And why have we been critics with this system or this new project? It's said the freedom of education, the freedom of choice. But who's got the freedom to make eight thousand euros in this new college? Because then it will depend on that freedom in order to be able to pay 8,000 euros a course against much more accessible public fees. It will depend on charity, as mentioned by the promoter himself, that there will be some scholarship system. That means that now access to a university education system at that university will depend on the goodwill of the promoters of that university centre. But that, a lot of equality and a lot of freedom of choice of teaching, the truth that we do not think. I'd like to thank all the agents who participated in ponciency this day, all the people who have contributed to our full correction and all our work. And also today for the different unions and education agencies that have been displayed in front of the Parliament. We repeat that our negative is round, not only because of ideological reasons, but especially because behind these Ideologicos there are technical, political, and legal reasons. I repeat, and repeat it again, because it does not follow the law that will be tried, nor the project. Because a church university is going to run in this Gastine city. That's gonna be a good news for the rich and $8,000 for those who can afford it, but not for all the citizens. And again we are against the project because it does not follow the number of points that are included in the policy. But above all, and we also say this again, because profit is introduced into Basque higher education. And lastly, because, moreover, this project, no matter how much we are told, no matter how much we want to deceive people, which is what you are trying to do from the promoter and also from the government, this project aspires to receive public funds, for two reasons. The first, because it is going to enter the Basque university system; and, therefore, it can ask the Basque Government for public money to finance its activities. Why won't you be able to do it if you enter as a recognized university? And that's a pretty big danger for our country, because we're going to have to fund a private university for profit, which is not the same in the other social initiative universities we have in Euskadi. And, second of all, for that Araba Sport Capital project, which you can fool someone... Not me. And I'm sure most of the citizens of Alavesa, either. A project that aims to receive more than 32 million euros of public money through European funds. And, if not, surely, he's running for other calls. And the Arab Council and the City Council have also approved a number of parties. A project that has the same promoter, the same, dedicated to higher education and elite training in sports, health, physiotherapy therapies, and new technologies and video games. Curiously, to the three branches of knowledge that the Euneiz will develop in that presented memory. And they tell us that they are two different projects and, in addition, they will be developed in the same geographical site. I... If you're trying to fool someone, it's fine. They have not succeeded with me; neither have they with my group. And I'm sure with the majority of Alavesa citizens, even if this project goes on, neither. And besides, I'm going to deny the big one. This project will not benefit all Basque citizens, nor Alavesa. It will benefit people who can pay more than 8,000 euros per course. And, second, it is a project aimed at foreign students coming to Araba, not at the university, which for that has affordable prices public university. Therefore, for all these reasons, berriro diogo ezezko borobila emango diogo lege-proiektu honi. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u35	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours. Gather the representative of the EH team, Mr. Arrese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u36	Thank you, Chief. Good morning, everyone. Yeah. I agree with those who have spoken before that it's an historic day, but for the Basque People, unfortunately, it's an historic day, because today there are two possibilities on the table. For one thing, what's on the table is the blitz University System to defend and protect our Esscal University System, is to make a decanation for our Public University of Basque University on one side. And, on the other hand, today's vote will vote for a red carpet to get into our college systems. We know that the EAJ and the absolute majority of the PSEs will enable Eune the University project to achieve its share in this legislature. That's why we've been trying to raise the Basque Country to focus on euscal University system rather than in this project, especially... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ... He says he's in this Parliament. That's why we've been trying to collect the Basque Country, we've tried to focus on the Esscal University system rather than on this project, and especially to put focus on the protection of the public University of the Basque Country. The Basque People are assembled to accept Eune EAE as private university by four correctants, which we keep for the vote today, and which, as I have said, they don't want to change the bill. Our aim is to change the same system of the Euscal University System, which, as I said in the future, is to utilize the University System and the Public Prosecutor's finances. And to close the threat of private colleges, which, as has been mentioned, are intended to win. In essence, it is the end of our four rights, and that is why we will defend our rights today, not another private university with a decided profit in Eune, but not another private university with a view to come to college, into the university of Araba, Biscaia, and Gipu. And so that such colleges, even in the future, may have no opportunity of making any public finances, because we think that from education we must leave the ethantic education. And that's where our four corrections are directed that we're keeping today. But unfortunately, in this historic day, it won't be like that, and with the protection of Vox, P.P., P.S., and PN.V, the modern Esscal University System of our university will be quite changed, and a private university with a design of profit will be left open in front of it. Today, the Eune Project will be a part of this parliament, we could predict it, and it will be formed as a university. And so, and this is also important, because a dangerous door opens in our system, because private education is welcome to those who have plans of profit. The law to create Eune will very strongly alter the map of Esscal University. At the present day three colleges form an eucalyptic system: EHU/UPVk, Basque Country University, Deustual University and Mondragon University. And, as has been said, all three of them constitute the Basque University Council, if they are part of it, and therefore they have the right to receive public contributions. And from today on, in that narrow budget they have, there'll be a fourth chance of a financial budget, and Euneiz will have that chance. But the curious thing, the curious thing is that Euneiz apparently doesn't want to receive public money. I do not think you are going to ask for public economic aid. To questions asked in commission to the promoters of Euneiz, I asked myself whether or not they were going to ask any kind of aid, either to the Basque Government, to the Arab Council or to the City of Gasteiz. And the promoters' response was clear, and I read it textually. They said in committee: "We have no agreement of any kind from an economic point of view. We reiterate again...", they said, "we have neither proposed nor are we going to propose as a project to receive subsidies or public aid for the development of our project." Horrekin gelditzen gara gu. I don't know if it'll be random or not, but today it's 11/11, today you play the Extra of the Eleven, the Coupon, and some, without playing a single coupon, have touched the lottery. Too bad I'm beating.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u37	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. Eubertarians, Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u38	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. President, chief and ladies, good morning to all. To-day we have come to the last step, in order that this project of the Eueneia may be made and become a reality. It's been a long time since the arrival of this project in Esscal Administration, which we must remember in 2018. And after many changes, conditions, and conditions, we have come to the last step, we believe, with the best possible text. That's always our team's goal. To get as much text out of this legislature as possible. And we think it has been so. Adding our proposals to the demands of the royal decree granted in August, it will be agreed to start the Eune University. And it is that, as we have also commented on more than one occasion, at the beginning of this administrative process, in November 2018, there was a regulation in force regarding the recognition and creation of universities within the state framework. A regulation that was amended in August 2021, i.e. three years after the beginning of this administrative procedure, and also began the parliamentary or legislative procedure of this procedure in March. In the face of this thesis, in the face of these circumstances, from our group, well, we raised the possibility through the procedure of amendments, together with the Socialist Group, of giving the law or reinvigorating it and providing it with all the relevant legal and legal guarantees so that it did not clash with any other legislation of the rank that was and emanates from the body that emanates. And it is that, as we have also commented on more than one occasion, it will be a posteriori, once the law has been passed in this House, when Euneiz will have to meet all the requirements that apply to him by the regulations that apply to him as well. And this will be guaranteed, along with other bodies and entities, by the Department of Education of the Basque Government, as has been the case throughout the whole process as well. Beraz, gure tandarentzat, Euneizeko proyektua positiboa, erakargarria eta aberasgarria da, ez bakarrik Gasteizeko hiriarentzako, baizik eta Araba eta Euskadi osărentzako. Eta guk hori balioan jartzen dugu. Because we are talking about a positive project for Euskadi, attractive, enriching, generating talent and also opportunities. In other words, a tractor project, not only for the city of Vitoria-Gasteiz, but also for Araba and Euskadi as a whole. And that is something that we certainly value from our group. Euskadin will have another field of training, talent, internationalization, and development in the development areas of innovation. We will therefore count on another referent in Euskadi at the level of... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... the growth and development of talent in the development of innovation. We will therefore have another point of reference in Euskadi in terms of training, talent, internationalisation and R & D+I. Areas, in addition, all of which have enormous potential and are linked to the fields of sport, health or new technologies. All of them are also fundamental to building the society to which we aspire in Euskadi: an advanced and modern society. And they will have in Araba, and more specifically in the city of Vitoria-Gasteiz, a place of reference to continue developing and training more and more people and professionals, to generate and develop international talent, and to improve our competitive capacity. Reconocemos ymos la bienvendida, por tant, a tus numerda Universidad a Euskadi. Welcome, always remarking that we who form an euscal university system are together, and that we want to work together, to continue to improve our services to the young and the euscal society. Finally, we believe that the private university can and, in fact, already have its space in the Basque university system. It is a complement, we believe, to the public university, which will also bring value in educational innovation, knowledge, research. We therefore believe that they are complementary and that they also have a common goal, which is nothing other than to train future generations in the best possible way. Do not, therefore, seek a quarrel between public and private, for a model of cooperation, in order to respond with greater capacity to future romances. Let's work to strengthen our relationships, for all the colleges will be useful to us all. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u39	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. By turning to the answers, Mrs Martínnez must not take the word. Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u40	Thank you, President. I wasn't going out, but some things have been said that I think... Look, Mr. Arrese, the final joke about the lottery is there, but I don't think it's a lottery issue. This is a matter of which we have been lucky. We have had luck with a private investment process, in a university experience, and that has been a good thing, that we are the beneficiaries of that process, because we will be enriched, in any case: there will be a lot of money invested in university infrastructure, in organization, in jobs, in jobs, in university attraction. I mean, that's dynamism, well, business, connected to college, but that's good and that's going to be beneficial. So it's not the lottery, but we've been lucky. Moreover, it is that many arguments are put on the table that seem to be true, and they are not, that is, they meet the requirements. He's doing it. Qualifying agencies have said that, the system of central university institutions has said that. I mean, it meets the requirements. And besides, it's a commitment to have to go to work. We all have to continue to comply with the laws, all if we make a society of whatever character, we have to comply with the laws. That is, there will be requirements, but there will have to be a start, there will have to be a foundation to start working and acting. And besides, they are worth all the arguments, that if they already venture the price of the enrollment... I don't know, I mean, here there are more expensive prices than what you said: the Basque Culinary Center has 9,500 euros of tuition, I just looked at it right now. I mean, that, I mean, that University of Mondragon. In other words, I do not know, in the end, there will be offers and there will be a scholarship policy to which the promoters have also committed themselves. I mean, we'll see about that. We'll also go through it and see if it's definitely successful or not. And besides, when Mr. Martinez also talks about other projects that may be part of the initiative of those promoters... But they are beneficial projects. In other words, the Araba-Gasteiz Sport Capital project is a beneficial project, which will also be enriching, which will involve investments in sports. I mean, how come a college, a sports college, isn't going to collaborate with another project? You can cooperate. I mean, they look at him suspiciously. I look at it with satisfaction, as they are projects that are called and that have a vocation to collaborate and enrich sports life in this case of the Basque Country. I mean, in that sense, I think... I don't know, it's a fatalistic attitude that you have, Mr. Arrese, Mr. Martínez. It seems to them that they are saddened that certain disciplines are improved in Alava, that they are deepened, that they are reversed. It will be the students who decide whether or not to go to that university, whether or not they are interested in the end. It's a risk, it's a bet. Let's hope a lot of people go and they're interested. That is the fundamental element. Moreover, this has nothing to do with hindering the development of other universities in relation to the development of the University of the Basque Country. This is not a threat, this is an opportunity. This is a challenge to modernize, to ask what areas of improvement there are, what niches of knowledge can be addressed. He sees that private initiative addresses them, public initiative or public capacity will also have to do that reflection. I mean, you've given a rosary of non-compliances and it hasn't started yet. That can't be. It's not fair. We understand that what we have in our hands is good news and we're going to give it that chance. We certainly give him that chance. It will also be the institutions that ensure compliance with the regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u41	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u42	Yes, thank you. Mr Barrio, access to a university is not the same for a person who has a family in which there is an income of 60,000 euros as for a family with an income of 18 or 20,000 euros. I think you'll agree. According to the OECD, in Spain, it would take a working-class family 120 years to ascend to a better, or middle-class situation, if we can speak in those terms. That's what, in addition, is prevented... and one of the most obstructive and obstructive elements asks... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... or middle class, if we can talk in those terms. That is also what is being prevented... and one of the most hindering and obstructing elements is the different educational networks, especially in compulsory education as well as in higher education. Because access to a level of private higher education, much more expensive and with a lot more resources generates that then, through the network of contacts that you make at the university, you have better chances of placement in certain places. And it reproduces that social scale from rich to rich, who are still rich, and poor who are still poor. 120 years, according to OECD. There's a report last week, which I haven't had a chance to read to me in full, which also analyzes what's going on in higher education in Euskadi. And yes, so logically, we do not share the Basque Culinary Center model, which charges 9,000 or 10,000 euros per tuition. Of course, we don't share it. That is not accessible to citizens as a whole. It is not the same as a person who can be paid the Artxanda High School of Hospitality, by the way very good, or someone who can go to the Basque Culinary Center. It's not the same. So it's not the same. That's not freedom. Because the rent determines the possibility you have of choosing the higher university you want... that you can access. That is why we are against this project. That is the first ideological and economic and class reason. And the second is that, no matter how much they commit, they do not meet the legal requirements established by the Ministry of Universities and established by law by that royal decree. And I deny you the greatest, Mr. Alvarez, does not fulfill. Removing it from the law does not make the memory to the university meet the requirements established by the Ministry of Universities. And I wish I could fulfill them and I wish it would go well, because, if not, the dish we will pay for among all and among all. See who takes care of those facilities if this project goes wrong. Mr Barrio, you do excellent parliamentary work in everything that has to do with sport. I believe that just this project goes against everything that you generally work on in basic sport. Because it's not going to work with Araba's basic sport this university, it's going to work with international talent and international excellence, who can pay for it. Who's going to be able to pay the tuition at the American School College that's going to start in Gasteiz? Who's gonna pay for that license plate? Or who will pay for the private stay that is planned in this project? Well, I'm sure the vast majority of Arab citizens don't. Because what Arab citizens need is to develop that basic sport and to develop training, for example, in sports, to what you meant, with a lot more resources than you have, which is a campus of excellence than there is in Arab sports. Why can't we do it like this? Why not the EUR 32 million that the Basque Government is asking for from Europe is not made, is not made, with a project of excellence with Araba's basic sport and is put in the hands of a private person's decisions? That's the question you have to answer. Because you defend basic sport, you do an important job in that regard, and this is not going to benefit Araba's basic sport. It will therefore benefit equal to one or two, the exception, but not to the whole of basic sport, which also does not aim at excellence and professionalization, but has other kinds of values to develop in the world of sport. We're sending today a bad day to the education system, especially to the high education system, the Arabari and Euskadi. And that, to be a private university alone, only a few, a project that will guarantee the profit, and that it is a bad news for the education system, and that it is a lost opportunity in the education system to strengthen the public euscal educational system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u43	Thank you, Mr. Marínez. The representative of the EH Group is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u44	Yeah. Yes, Chief Congressman, from your chair, if you please. Very quickly, in this replication. Barrio jaunari, I don't have much to tell you, Mr. Barrio. You said, "It's business dynamism brought to the university system, taken to the university." Ready, that's what we don't share. And that's why we're going to vote against this college. Alderdi Jeltzaleko ordezkariari dagokionean, harritu nau ez duzuelako inongo aipamenik egin, ez dizkiezuelako inongo ereferentziarik egin gaur bozkatuko diren, kontra bozkatuko dituzuen gure lau zuzenketei. Bai, ordea, ereferentia egin zenien azkenengo Hezkuntza Batzordean. Eta, Bertan, esan zenuen: "We determined that it was not appropriate to take advantage of this bill to amend Law 3/2004, of the Basque University System, because that is another deeper debate." And you said, "We do not think that the additional provisions should be used, through amendments, to modify the wording of this law." Okay, okay. If the problem is form and not substance, let's go to the bottom. Let's see if we want the Basque university system to have universities for profit or not. Moreover, in this sense, I take the opportunity to say that my group, Euskal Herria Bildu, is going to register today, with our four amendments, a bill to change the Basque university system, to change... to amend Law 3/2004 of the Basque University System, shield it and leave the universities out for profit. The debate will therefore come. We'll discuss this again, about the for-profit. The debate will come. And we'll have to answer a simple question: do we want... Do you, the parties that support the government, want universities to be for profit in the Basque university system? Yes or no? We will bring a law, which we will register today, and we will discuss this issue. For Euskal Herria Bildu, today yes, today we lose an opportunity to be, at university level, a territory free of profit as regards the university refers. And today it does not lose Euskal Herria Bildu, today, unfortunately, it loses our system, our university ecosystem. Anyway, we'll continue the Basque Country University, the Public University, and the Esscal University System, as we did this morning with all the members of this concentration that's been outside this legislature. And so we will continue to do so. By the way, I'll take advantage of thanking you both for voting for our directs. And it's just that our attitude is against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u45	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. Eubertarians, Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours. [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] It must be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u46	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. Eubertarians, Mr. Álvarez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u47	Thank you again, Mrs. President. And I went out, I wasn't going to say anything about the principle, but as I was made to answer them by two comments or something. Batetik, Elkarrekin Podemeko Martínez jaunak egindako aipamena. Esan du "nigo la majore" edo "who do not meet the requirements of this new university". In this regard, I believe that neither you nor I are who to say what or to determine that this university complies or does not comply with the regulations, because, of course, I do not think that it is clear either what regulations apply to a file that we do not have to forget that it was started in 2018 with a regulation and a regulatory framework in force and that it was modified only three months ago. The rules of play have therefore changed with the administrative procedure itself initiated, including the parliamentary procedure, as I said in my speech. And of course, I do not think that you or I, even the new legislation itself, also have a deadline to be able to adapt the new universities to the requirements of this new royal decree. Therefore, of course on the part of our group, we want – obviously, we cannot do anything else – that this university meets all the requirements as I think you have also wanted in your intervention, because it will be good news for everyone. And finally, Mr. Arrese, the Basque People of the Union. Well, yes, I forgot to mention your corrections. And I'm confirming what he said on the committee. We mentioned it, and after we had hired it, what we had determined was that it was not proper to use a law of regeneration to change the law of our college. And if the law of the university is to be changed, well, there are other forums, and there we can discuss it at bottom, and not only around Luther or not Licro. And yet our design is always to be built upon laws and laws. And that will be our point of view. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u48	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. End of discussion, we'll start our vote. They'll go to the vomit together, collect EH groups' reserved add corrections made on the articles of judgment. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the supporters are 25; the opponents are 48; abstentions, 0; white, 0.1,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u49	So they didn't accept it. The articles of judgment are put together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the supporters of 48; the opponents 25; the abstations are 0; white ones; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u50	So they're accepted. They are put to the vote, at the same time, the explanation and the name of the law. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the supporters of 48; the opponents 25; the abstations are 0; white ones; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u51	So the law of accepting Eunez as a private University of the Eune Autonomy of the Eune. Then there's a vote. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u52	[[Microphone Off spoke]] ... in favour of taking into consideration the adoption of this bill for two reasons. First, because we like to comply with the law, even if it does not fully satisfy us, and we understand that this bill that we have passed today complies satisfactorily with it. It is true that there have been doubts, that there has been controversy as to whether it meets 100% of the requirements or not. And it is true, moreover, that the legal situation has changed, since August of this year, when a new regulation is approved by the Ministry of Universities that hardens the criteria necessary to give the approval to this one, to a private university. Something that, by the way, is not something that does not exist in the rest of Spain: there are many private universities. And I find it kind of funny that Bildu and Podemos say, "if it's for profit." Tell me what private initiative this country has come out in the spirit of bankruptcy. None. None. Therefore, that is a rather empty and quite (...) speech. I believe that there are possibilities, and in addition the opinion seems to us to improve the situation that has taken place before, because it takes up the possibility that once the competent body, which is this Parliament, the Basque Legislative Chamber, gives approval to the draft, it has a period of time to accommodate its situation, its statutes, its legal requirements to the new legal reality that exists in Euskadi, and right now also throughout Spain, by the Ministry of Universities. Therefore, I think that dramatizing this issue too much is never good, because when you want to take refuge simply in the essences and flee from reality, you can encounter serious problems. You said you didn't care much about the Basque Culinary Center. I was going to set the same example as Mr. Barrio. It does not seem that it is, precisely, a university that maintains affordable rates... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... said you don't care much about the Basque Culinary Center. I was going to set the same example as Mr. Barrio. It does not seem to be precisely a university that maintains affordable or social rates. And no one doubts the benefit to the country of a university of prestige in the gastronomic field. That it must have sufficient safeguards to meet the requirements laid down by law, of course. And I have no doubt that this university or whoever it was will do it in any way. And I do not understand, on the part of Bildu, that it is a question of demonizing the existence of a private university in the Basque university field. In the field of education, I wouldn't like it to be like that, but it is. There is. There are concerted centres, and there are ikastolas that are of a private nature and that operate with concerts with the educational administration. That's not bad, it seems to be. But it is wrong that a university can access, with similar criteria, to enter the educational system. So, a little coherence. You can't put the inks on one side when it suits me, and forget other realities that it's about avoiding the discussion, because it's very uncomfortable for them. Therefore, a little bit of seriousness, a little bit of sense of reality and common sense, and less making mere propaganda speeches so that you don't know which parish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u53	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Third point in theme list: "You don't have any words." I'm sorry, but you don't have a word. You don't have a word. You don't have words, you don't have words... That's enough. You don't have a word. One, you don't have a word. Third point in theme list: "EH Collect Team... "No words. "As long as the parliamentary arts... "You have no words. "As you've made it, you're talking about making the same cards in Europe as social rights and applying them to the whole district of Euskal Autonomy Errigo. Discipline and final resolution. Group proposer's turn: The wife of the Kortja, the representative of the EH team. Please, you don't have a word... I didn't give it to you. I didn't give it to you. But I didn't. I didn't give it to you. No, no, no... I promise, or I won't give it to you... I didn't give it to you. No. Mr Martínnez, I didn't give it to you. You don't have the word. I didn't give it to you. Ya está. Punto. No, but... Punto. You don't have a word. So ya esta... Klaro. It's your word, Mrs. Kottaja's.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u54	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Partners. I'd like to remind you that the vote is an explanation and that it's not the other teams' turn to interact, an opportunity. That's why they had the chance of coming back first. And somewhere for cowardice or other reasons, some of them have decided not to say what they were supposed to say at another time, and if they had the chance to replicate them. And, in that sense, I think the lady of the Parliament ought also to do her duty. I have often heard a famous saying of Sénec, since I have been in this legislature: who says that there is no wind for a ship that goes nowhere. And while I was preparing the subject today, that's what occurred to me. Because today is a matter of discussion about the direction our people must take at the moment at which it is quite unusual. We believe that a pertinence is a discussion, because the decisions we now take and not receive will determine what we do now and what we do not do will be a whole decade. And a total political discussion in that sense. And I think there will also be a discussion of which some and others will treat us today. As in the Araba, Gipulia, and Biscaia, as in the Basque Country and the World, we shall have to reach the deep process of modification which has hitherto been dominant, and which will cause much modification in many forms, in the tencats which have just begun. The ecological and digital transitions will change the economy and the ways of our life. And the Basque Country, it seems, will necessarily have to establish and develop these changes in the parameters of social justice. Pandemia has only made these processes speed up. It was a terrible impulse to digital development. And as we see Glasgow in these days, there is no longer any need for the most extreme transformation. Time's running out. We've only been a few years pushing fossil fuels permanently away and reducing gas leaks from the greenhouse effect. If you don't, the consequences will be terrible, uncontrolled. The welfare of the succeeding generations, the welfare of our children, and even of ours. The digital revolution and the emergency transition will be the transformation of a hundred producers. And the Eroscal economy, especially the industry, will have to be able to adapt itself to that process which threatens it. Therefore, to adapt the changes to them, and, as far as possible, to lead the changes, because they have become the only guarantee of the future to make the risks. And these transformations are also on their way to jobs. And in this case it will depend on us to end our job with the distractions that the robots will steal from us, neutralize those future threats of less employment and more unemployment, and make use of the moment for the division of work and worthy employment. All the structures of our well-being are questioned by a demographic crisis; and these changes, as has been said, must be solved in the new paradigm of social justice. So far, the neoliberal attack has changed the mechanism of redistribution of wealth for the elites. The consequence is, that wealth is increasing in fewer and less hands, and that it is the cause of anxiety for the majority. Social races are getting bigger. And to face this must be the preference of public policy, as we believe. There will be no success in all those transitions which are at the door, if the cohesion and security of society are not strengthened. The balances, the new balances, the challenge and the mission preponderance. And that forces us to act as a people. All the forces of this people must, as has been said before, be set straight in order, and the decisions which are made at this moment, and... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... it obliges us to act as we do. We must set all the forces of this people in a direct direction, as has been said before, the decisions which are made at the present moment, and those which are not received will be conditioned by a whole decade. It plays, as Marina Garcés reminds us, to build new frames that allow alternatives for a better and more dignified life. And it's up to you to do it as a country. I would say that, at the moment, we have great challenges, which we all identify, but it seems that sometimes it is forgotten that they all pass by to guarantee public policies for good living and social justice. That is perhaps one of our main missions. Because, as Amaia Orozko said in this Parliament, there are no good times for life. On this mission, we must have a compass that will lead us right in the right direction, and the Basque People in the form of Collecting, this compass is the received Social letter from Europe. Europe, the letter of the Social Rights, is a Nation of the whole stock of Europe, which contains the whole catalogue of Humans and Workes, the Letter of the Social Rights of Europe. It's 1960, but in 1996 there was a thorough revision. And at the present day he shifts 31 rights: In addition to the right to home, health, education, the right of working under decent conditions, collective negotiations, the right to secure themselves from work, the right to social security, to equality, poverty, and social neglect, independent of the autonomy and life of those who have no power to protect children and children... , he gets others. Besides, in 1995, there was added to the protocol which opens the opportunity for collective complaints. And this protocol allows unions, social institutions, administrations which act against these rights, or resist the international elections. To a people who want to preserve and protect his fellow-citizens, a people who aim to divide prosperity among them, and to a people who chooses to establish worthy lives, the fundamental instrument and compass of Europe is, in our opinion, indispensable. The rents of the Archaba, Gipulia, and Biscay, are historically retorized in ours, and it has become "mimilio impositable," and we have one of the highest prices for youth in Europe, except the highest. Women in our house have lived worse than ten years ago. For the last two years child poverty has increased: One of the five citizens lives in a state of poverty, and there are more 22,500 people who are in danger of falling into poverty. One of four employees doesn't make it a $1,000 salary if they're young. And 90% of the contracts that were signed last month were temporary, and the duration of a large percentage of them didn't reach a month. The Prefect is therefore structural in ours. And, as I said, even in our own country, it's not the best time for life. When uncertainty prevails, in order to protect and illustrate the social rights of the community, it is indispensable that the poverty and firm steps of different generations should be made to face the poverty and the social retreat. In fine, social cohesion is a division between all objects, worthy lives, and prosperity, to face states and future roots, to raise our powers to the mind, to recover our ability of innovation, and to secure our persons by receiving new tools. This is why we presented ourselves to the law which we have brought to the argument to-day: and consequently to secure worthy lives, and to make a progress in the society, contrary to the prerogative and poverty of the people. We were just having a good time over the discussion, weren't we? To make the letter its own work, to make it possible for its own work, for the standard marked by the political and social policy, to penetrate into the level of public policies, and to negotiate new tools and functions which are indispensable. It's important because, for instance, we're making the letter, because by means of the rent to guarantee the incomes, we'd make our commitment to the lowest pensions up to 1.080 euros. Or here we would encourage the means of setting up the minimum waged wages for our social reality. Y la diffencia es notable, huh? La carta estable que el prostali sere el 60 %o caso caso at 1.263 aproximamente; 1.045 an el Stastodo, Amono? Today, at 965, there's a minimum salary in the state, 60% of half-paying in Murcia is 40 percent here. And our poverty runs in 858 euros, which you do, don't you? The engagement to make the letter ours, and to apply it, might, in a way, echo it.... they would, of course... In budgets, right? And if you intend to apply this letter, or if you have political will, there will be no reduction in investments, or social services, as in this year's budgets. If we were to do it, we'd go deep in the rights to do it, work out those rights we've got in our hands. For example, as far as the housing is concerned, to limit the rate of rents that go there without restriction. And, of course, with our letter, the tool of making the road marked on it, and... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... to limit the price. And, of course, with our letter, we would also make commitments to negotiate new tools and new hands to make the road marked on it. In the midst of which the majority of the legislature has often asked for transferments of passive jobs, or the jurisdictions of social security, which belong to the circle of social intercourse. And so we should define pensions or rewards for unemployment. From the political choice of property, political ambition, and prosperity of worth and life, which is the choice of the United States, the choice of the Basque People is a spur to us to make our letter of social rights and commit it to it. Sería un nuevo mpulso para los derechos sociales y laborales. And that's why we wanted to have commitments to go in the direction of plans and plans today. It was not only the intention, the intention, and the commitment to apply them. Well, we've only come to plans. This week at Glasgow, I think we ought to have it clear that black, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, that's not enough. That there must be an action already, and that the times and states require it. And when we take something on us, and when it is consumed to do it as it is for our own sake, we must also be obliged to take action when such declarations are signed. And that's what we were asking for today. And this is what we have not seen in some measure in the repentance introduced by groups that maintain the government, and in the conversation which afterwards it was. Well, what we're planning on is, let's make this letter of our own, and let's go on developing what is to be developed in the world of beautiful societies. But it is not said that the will to apply the frame beyond is a firm will, or that the standards which mark it will be the marks in which they are applied. We are therefore a little short of what has been said here, especially because the situation shows us that it is a moment for us to pass through our words. And in conclusion, besides knowing where to go, I should say rowing on that road is indispensable. What plans don't move the boat. And to do eternal, as in your repentance, will lead us to the same port. And here it would be intended that with this new compass, or this new compass, which ought to have been shared, it should be more just, more free, and more equal, that it should be between those who guard one another. Till we have attained the people of the free and the equal, the people which protects and protects each other, we shall continue to work with this compass, and with that determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u55	Thank you, Madame Kortja's. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mr Price is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u56	President, ladies and gentlemen, it is always in the Basque Parliament's interest to talk about Europe, talk about the European Union and talk about what this space means for politics, for freedom, for public policies, for economic policies, for society, etc. Indeed, the European Social Charter today is of interest to this issue and has an additional element of importance that has already been made, but that in any case is now ratified with the latest revision and is to incorporate into international law those principles and rights set out in the European Social Charter, which are up to 31 and which address an infinite number of subjects, both in the right to work and working conditions, as well as in the right to health, the protection of children, pensions, housing, and all those aspects of an economic and social nature that fall within what we have called this model of well-being and within what we have called that quality of life worthy of people. The European Social Charter is not only the most important international treaty at the level of the European Union, but it is the most important international treaty in the world because of the number of countries it hosts, because of the collective commitment that is established and because in some way it is a sign of identity and a political approach launched into the world, not only into the European Union, in order to say that life on the planet has to be with rules, it has to be with rights, it has to be with principles and that it would be very good for the whole of humanity that this set of rules of rights and principles could be observed collectively on this old continent and on the other continents. Indeed, we are already committed to the European Social Charter, we are already united. The European Social Charter is ratified by the State. It is a letter that affects all the states of the European Union. The Spanish State has already done so, and therefore, from there this Basque Parliament, the Government, all the Basque institutions and all the institutions throughout Spain, are affected, are attached and are attached to that Social Charter. A Social Charter in which the 31 principles and rights have been adopted can be affirmed with roundness... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...attached and attached to that Social Charter. A Social Charter, in which the 31 principles and rights have been adopted, can be clearly stated that all of them are dealt with by public policies, that all of them are dealt with by public policies, beyond the differences or natural differences that may occur between different conceptions of economic and social life, and beyond where one wishes to place the specific approaches or demands of each of those principles or rights. But they're all working on it. There is not one of the 31 principles and rights set out in the European Social Charter on which the Spanish Government, the Basque Government, Parliament, the Congress of Deputies or the Basque Parliament are not working. It would be worth mentioning the whole political, economic and social approach that has been taken in relation to the protection of employment with ERTs. It would be worth mentioning this new policy of the European Union, with resources for a just economic recovery that provides countries, and those who need it most, with additional resources to modernize, renew their economic model and also to ensure and guarantee their social protection model. So, finally, there are a lot of initiatives and elements that go along with that of the European Social Charter that, in fact, have been working since the beginning of democracy, that there are a set of provisions and laws that have been adopted to make this happen. And it would be enough to talk about the rise of the interprofessional minimum wage, which has had a very important rise in recent years, precisely to reach that already established horizon and which is intended to be made before the end of this legislature. It would be enough to talk about minimum living income to see how there is an interest in equipping people with less resources to live. It would be enough to talk about the recent reform or upgrading of pensions through social dialogue, to see the concern and interest in maintaining that purchasing power and in securing such pensions in the future. It would be enough to talk, in the case of the Basque Country, about the Basic Income and its update. Or it would be enough to talk about the Housing Act and subjective law. In other words, we have countless concrete elements of sectoral policy that are constantly inciting and, in addition, constantly trying to push those rights and principles into the future, trying – each based also on its own ideological and programmatic concept of what all these things have to be – to expand, improve, towards, as I said, the future. We are therefore already working on the Social Charter of European Rights. We've been doing this for decades. We'll keep doing it. The budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community are also an expression of momentum in relation to these objectives this year. And of course we feel totally committed to it, because in practice that's what we've been doing. Moreover, the way to adhere to the European Social Charter, the way to join the European Social Charter, is also respecting the political space in which everyone is. It is clear that, in order for the Social Charter to progress, we must respect this approach in which we live and organize ourselves. That, indeed, is born of a constitution, that level of competence that the Autonomous Communities have; in this case, the self-government of the Basque Autonomous Community through the Statute of Gernika, or other competences that are in accordance with how a society is organized and structured. Because there are even many subjects that correspond to social dialogue, to the understanding between workers' unions and business organizations, to the subsequent ratification by the corresponding governments of that social dialogue. I mean, we have the instruments. We must not forget, however, that the treatment of this European Social Charter, in the space of this Basque Parliament, is a treatment adjusted to its level of competence, to its political capacity to do things, and not to approaches that are outside that area. It is true that anyone who wishes to do so may rise to this rostrum and may propose that we make a pension system of our own, or that we make a model of our own labour relations, or that we may declare independence, or that we may... in the end. In the declarative aspect, it is true that the microphone endures everything and that everyone can say what he thinks is appropriate. Now, it gives you only one way to tell what you want, what your dreams can be or what your wishes can be, even if it has nothing to do with the reality of what the Social Charter of European Rights and Principles means and the competence and political capacity that this Parliament has or that the Basque Government has, or even that it has the Congress of Deputies or the Government of Spain. Each Administration is working on these 31 principles and rights to the extent that it has competence. It is being done in a progressive and progressive way. Some rights are increasingly supported and efforts are being made to improve. And I believe that in that line where we Socialists can be found, let us say, that at this political juncture, in an important leadership for the social and economic policies being carried out at the level of Spain, it is true that we have travelled, because our pretensions are much more than those consolidated today in our legislative provisions. But we're in that job. That in that work we share countless agreements. First, in a coalition government in Spain; and then, in a policy of alliances to take forward the budgets and number of decisions to be made in the Congress of Deputies. We also do it here in a coalition government, in this scenario of the Basque Country, taking forward the country's governance. And we also do so in this House, reaching agreements, and often extending those agreements to... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ...stage of the Basque Country, bringing forth the country's governability. And we do so also in this House, reaching agreements, and often extending those agreements to the other groups that are also part of this House even though they are not part of the government. And well, on that line we're going to keep working. Therefore, our accession, union with the European Social Charter, is given by our condition, our capacity and our competences. And we will continue to advance and progress in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u57	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, President, good morning to all. The Eusgian law unites with the principles of the Social Letter of Europe, and demands every Basque Institutions to continue in the development of pretty societies, offering services which will serve to penetrate into the human development of the whole society. That's the law that came to the discussions and votes today, that's what we made this other man's correction. There is some who will say that the correction is vain, but I think there is as much in it as in the demand of original enterprise. It will be said that he proposes always to follow what is already done, and especially in this case we think it inevitable that we should include the mention of continuity, owing to the fact that we ought to all acknowledge the truth, and that neither in fine society nor in public politics we do not escape from it. And that many and many of them, which are mentioned in this European letter, are not all one to another or to be said to be filled. And when I say we keep them, I am in a great sense. I'm not just thinking about what's going on as a legal team, but also in the Foru Modal or Citys. And similarly, in this present case, we ought to introduce the state itself, because there are several parts which are explained in this letter. That's exactly what we wanted to do with our correction. I mean, on the one hand, we need to make a request not only to "Muddy" but to all classes of organizations, because they're all involved. And on the other hand, there is a piece of pre-eminent work, which would not have left us so ill in a possible classification, but which ought to be taken advantage of to continue developing societies and to penetrate into the human development of the whole society. And we didn't see that in the original initiative, we saw it badly focused. When he said, "The law is in agreement with the European letter of Social Rights, and consequently to guarantee worthy lives, and to advance against the Precharitt and Poverty, or the safe society, as if it had done nothing worthy of its own, or to apply it entirely to the land of EA, as if it had not been for the sake of its own benefit, or to apply it to the whole of its rights, as if it had not been for the sake of the rest of its lives. In fact, it is very well to say, "The legislature joins the European letter of Social Rights" as a political declaration. But if you do or don't do this Christmas card or not, Spain signed on the 23rd of October 2003, gave her consent on the 17th of May, 2021, and it's going on before July 1 this year. It is a legal order, and it belongs to each class of institutions, according to its own jurisdiction, to apply it to the conditions on which the following has been accepted. Hence, among other things, what we explained at first was the necessity of directing the demands to all the institutional grades, since the struggle has been followed by a struggle to ensure worthy lives. And to contrast what I say, I've gone to know data, data like spending on social protection per capita. A comparison of the European Union, the sources of which are Eurostat and Eurostat, dated 29 January 2021. For expenditure on social protection per capita, the European approved concept of expenditure on social protection is used; it includes sickness, health care, disability, old age, survival, family and children, unemployment, housing and social exclusion. It doesn't include education. What does include is the expenditure carried out by all the administrations, from the state to the local. The quantity of purchasing power parity grew from 7,742 in 2012 to 9,022. 16,53 % in percentage terms, if I don't miss the accounts. And I've brought, it's usually usual, I've brought the resulting chart. In this same paragraph, which Eustat calls the Social Protection Account, there is one euro section per inhabitant, and that between 2012 and 2019, in this case it grew from 7,559 to 8,918, a 17,98 %. If we take into account the poverty risk rate, better known by AROPE, with sources from the INE and Eurostat, at 1 in 10 of 2021, we note that in the EU 2020 Euskadi comparison it is at the top. This means that we are the best, the least at risk of poverty in the European Union, with a downward trend from 17.7% in 2012 to 13.9% in 2020. It's this line. Under 16 in Finland, 17, 9 in Sweden, 15.9 in Denmark or 16.3 in the Netherlands. This indicator summarizes the results obtained from the measurement of both poverty in economic terms – economic poverty – people who suffer severe material deprivation – material poverty – and poverty of people living in households with very low employment intensity. I have more data, but I'm not going to go on with them because I don't have as much tomorrow as some others in taking the charts to the lecture. Don't tell me, I'm listening to you: "Mr. Urrutia, you do nothing but exercise self-congratulation." Perhaps Mrs Kortajarena is more original and let me know that we are at risk of dying of success. No self-pity or death by success. Basically, because I believe it is a merit shared by the different levels of administration we have all been through, who else and who less. [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] Basically, because I believe it is a merit shared by the different levels of administration we have all been through, who else and who less. Although it is true that, because of the fact that I have found them, the evolution of the data I have submitted is given since 2012, when the lehendakari Urkullu formed his first government. And, in honor of the truth, we should not do that demagogic and false exercise, because when things go well, the merit is of the citizens, the workers and the various actors involved, and when things go wrong, the problem is the public policies of the Government. Without taking away any merit from anyone, something will have to do with this situation, not without clarity, with the policies of the governments that have happened since 2012, as with the current one. And that is why we must continue with the march undertaken, taking this European Social Charter as a boost to develop social policies and deepen sustainable human development and to achieve a more just society. The march undertaken by a government that presents budgets, in which almost eight out of every 10 euros are devoted to social departments. But I do not think that today we are called on to talk about budgets. On the other hand, perhaps the intention of this enterprise may be to speak of other matters; the minimum wages, the pensions... Well, the basic income will come to the discussion of the universal. (... I don't think that's the time to go deeper today either. But taking advantage of what is said in a sentence of action, without being a statue, this Esnomy of Euchidia, a member of a compact community, for the cohesion of society, and for what has been said, makes a special effort to complete the pensions by means of the security of the treasury. And even in this we continue in our endeavour to improve the guarantee of the income in the law of change of rent, which has been announced in the last few days, the engagement of the minimum income to live in the state, and of the interference of this government with our system. I would not like to leave it without comment on another subject. In the original initiative, it is said that we should lead all our jurisdictions to our heads, and engage to negotiate new instruments and functions. And in that case I will not welcome you, for you are offended, but I will not accept you. We've often been in this business for 40 years, just too much. And we hear all things: that we carry the solids, the privileged ones, as a large Basque nut, that we want the photographs, and that we want them to be a long one. No, no. They can take pictures of others if they can sign up. And now there's a deal to fill the state of Guernica. A few hands have been handed over to the social area (... The arrangement of the minimum income of life which they touch has also been obtained, and we are gradually going. And all this, that state which I have attempted to describe, without having all our powers in our hands as we have done. Our hands have led them to the utmost, and with the frightful political and patient will which is often spoken of by much want of them. That's why, even if we criticise a lot, we must continue. Political will, democratic patience. They're not, they're not bad resources to come and face all the changes we have on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u59	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. The representative of the Basque Team Popular-Ciudadnos, Mrs Garrido.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u60	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments, fellow members of the legislature, good days to all. We're talking today about the Social Card of Europe. It's an international pact. And it is plain that he protects human rights, and that his exact rights appear in them: A social home, health, education, employment and protection. The truth is that, on the one hand, this initiative caught my attention, because from the group that I represent we do not consider it necessary, at all, from the moment that the Spanish State joined that letter. Our country joined as early as 1980, as has also been said here, in a second review on 17 May 2021. It is a treaty of the Council of Europe, as I said, which protects fundamental rights, rights specifically in the fields of health, education, social, employment, social protection, housing. It seeks, while protecting these rights in these specific areas, to protect also the most vulnerable groups, such as the elderly, the young and, in particular, those in precarious employment. As I said, the date of drawing up this European Charter of Social Rights in 1961. It was ratified by Spain in 1980. And it must be said that, for this reason, its content has inspired the Spanish Constitution itself and the Workers' Statute. Spain, therefore, and all the autonomous communities that make up Spain, and Spain as a whole, adopts the commitment to the defence and promotion of social rights envisaged therein. It was revised in 1996. And the collective claims are introduced. And this ratification is also carried out by Spain on May 17, 1921, 2021, forgiveness. We are facing an international treaty. And we all know what an international treaty is. Perhaps more jurists, but, by approach, also anyone can know and know what an international treaty is, which is an international agreement concluded between sovereign states or between states and other subjects of international law, such as, in this case, international organizations or other international organizations that may have the capacity to conclude international treaties. In this sense, there are adherents, as I have said here, many states to this international treaty. That's why I was saying that because I'm already a member... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... there are adherents, as has been said here, many states to this international treaty. That's why I was saying that by being already attached it's applicable. I mean, I think that this initiative, Mrs Kortajarena, does not add anything, it is absolutely redundant. And, in that sense, once international treaties, as the Constitution, part of our legal system, states, validly concluded international treaties, once officially published in Spain, are part of the legal system. Therefore, there is no need to adhere to something that is already intrinsically part of our legal system. He said la inlicativa de Shade. Pues incancere. We think it's unnecessary, according to what I said. And since Spain has signed this treaty, that is to say, it must be fulfilled when all laws or all rules are tested. Eta, bestalde, Euzko Alderdi Jeltzaleak eta Alderdi Sozialistak aurkeztutako zuzenketa, bai, esaten du that we join the principles of the European Social Charter and urges all the institutions to follow in the development of social policies. Well, yeah, too. But, I mean, it's unnecessary. That it is very good to bring these initiatives, but that they do not have much practicality, Mrs Kortajarena, – forgive me for saying so to you – because in the end we already have a legal order that, of course, we respect and are obliged to comply with. And, as I say to you, all the legislation and provisions that apply in these specific matters are in line with the principles and freedoms set forth in this international treaty. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u61	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Podemus-Nozzerate Group, Mr. Angulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u62	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. "At the present time of health, social, economic and climate crisis, it is essential to guarantee social rights. Now more than ever it is when social rights move away from the realm of optional to become a necessity and a common task", these were the words that Yolanda Díaz said when the Charter was ratified. And today I am going to make them mine, because we are experiencing frankly difficult moments that are bringing us back to the 2008 crisis. Fortunately, the way the crisis has been dealt with this time has been very different. And instead of saving banks and protecting privileged classes, from the Government and from the Ministries of Equality, Social Rights, as well as from the Ministry of Labour, social and labour protection has been placed before any other type of interest. Since United We have come to the Government and, in particular, since Yolanda Díaz took over the portfolio in Labour and Social Economy, he has made every effort to ratify it, since the European Social Charter is a genuine social constitution for people and for European citizenship regardless of their origin, race or sex and defends the rights of people in situations of greater vulnerability. The European Social Charter, as has already been said, is the most important treaty in terms of the protection of social human rights. And although 25 years late, from our parliamentary group we welcome the ratification that took place on 17 May this year. And also the endorsement of the collective complaints protocol, as important as the Charter, because without this protocol it would have been left on wet paper. With both, a further step was taken in the protection of the human rights of citizens. Social rights. The linkage of the Social Charter is of great importance, as it enables us to address a fundamental debate on social protection: to what extent is the State committed to social rights and to what extent is it committed to international and European mandates? The European Social Charter, with all these rights, is a binding international treaty. At times, this Charter has the particularity of presenting itself as a menu of rights from which States can choose which rights they accept and which they do not. However, the ratification by the Spanish State has been complete and unreserved. The Social Charter includes rights to protection against social exclusion, sexual harassment at work, as well as to housing, as already mentioned, or to equal opportunities. And as far as we are concerned, we will try to make sure that this is not forgotten, that it is not one or another of so many examples of rules that serve only to write headlines and to make debates in front of the gallery, but that they have never just been applied, and, if applied, it is a coup d'état or a coup d'éars internationale. In this context, with this horizon, from the central government and from the United Nations, we have been promoting very concrete measures in the field of social rights. As has already been said, the protection that has been given to ERTE, the raising of the minimum wage, the comprehensive protection of children, the Housing Act, the equalization of maternity and paternity leave. They gradually slow down and bring about profound changes in the living conditions of society as a whole and also of Basque society. And the long-awaited repeal of labour reform is getting closer and closer. For our part, here in Euskadi, we have defended the transformation of social rights into courageous and transformative concrete public policies. The guarantee of social rights is and will continue to be the focus of our parliamentary activity, not excluding one another for economic or political conveniences. From Elkarrekin We have brought to this House, for example, the presentation of care, the regulation of rental prices, the presentation of sexual abuse in front of... in children, the promotion of policies addressing menstrual poverty, measures against school harassment and cyberbullying, policies against labour and tax fraud. Not all, but many of these initiatives have not been supported by the whole House. All these measures and many more are in line with what the proposing group and the amending group are calling for here today. On the one hand, we are in favour of... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... these measures, and many more, are in line with what the proposing group and the amending group are calling for here today. On the one hand, we are in favour of pushing for new social protection measures that are essential at the moment when we are living. And the momentum and desire for equity must be a constant in the work of the Government. That is why we also see a need for the development of the measures that are already in place. And we cannot fall into the complacency they said before. In conclusion, the European Social Charter is a transnational expression of solidarity. It is the most comprehensive expression of recognition of social rights. It is defending the social rights of the most disadvantaged. It is to support decent labour policies. Supporting the European Social Charter is progressing towards inclusion and combating inequalities. And there, in such policies, from Elkarrekin we can always join, whether in government, in institutions or on the street. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u63	Thank you, Mr. Angulo. Passing to the turn of the answers, Mrs. Kortah, the representative of the EH Collector, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Sometimes temptations are temptations, Sire Faraway (... ) When they are ready. I think we all do, to think what the other will say to us, and in accordance with that, to build our discourses. It's just that we didn't do some of the assertions you've done here today. We didn't discuss it. You got 'em. You said the initiative isn't trivial... That your trade or government isn't trivial. You said all those things. That's not what I'm talking about. Because, of course, we have to keep doing it, you said we should keep doing it, and... Of course we have to keep doing it. And that was today's initiative. It's about that. At this very moment, as a country, I have said, it is an initiative on the direction it ought to take, from the very beginning. And I've also remarked that the decisions we make now, and those we don't take, will condition a whole decade. And that's why it's important to mark what that compass is like to be shared. And of course that compass which we choose to mark the way may be applied afterwards, not in vain words, let it be left empty. And you also told me that maybe today I wanted to talk about other matters at this dock, or about the minimum wage, or the pensions. But the Social Letter of Europe is asking for these things. I mean... To talk about the minimum wage, or talk about the pensions, or about the course of poverty, or about beautiful housing, is all to talk about the northern compass and the compass marked by the Social Letter of Europe. Or what shall we talk about? Intinctition? These are the rights here mentioned, and it is time to speak of them in a dispute about the Social Letter of Europe. I have never had any complex here to acknowledge that the societies of this country are more advanced than in many other places. I didn't have any restaurants. Now, that doesn't mean I don't see that this town has, like a village, a great deficiency in the last few years. And it's just that we've lost something of what's happened all these years in these social policies and the general things we've had on our protection system, that these precursor skills and powers of innovation have been lost, that we've brought to this table. Beraz, you had ekimena itzultzerakoan jartzen zuela "take over the European Social Charter". That's the horrella jassote zegoela. Eta "absorbing" will attract you, take for yourself, take care of yourself, take responsibility for something, accept it, acquire it, take a larger form. And you said here all the stuff social letters say are filled with the standard that marks them, categoryically. But if it were, our minimum pensions would be at least $180 euros. And we'd find a way to complete them through our pretty ones. And our minimum salary would adapt to our social reality. And it wouldn't be what the state is marking. So asumir es responsabilise de que efectivo. Alderdi Sozialistari eta PPko Laura Garridori, zuek esaten duzue Espanian hau aplikatzen her. Standard hauek, if these standards were applied in Spain, would not have gone forward either the labor reform that you posed or many of the elements of the previous labor reform that the Socialist Party introduced. And, if it were not necessary to adapt the precepts of the letter to our reality, can you explain to me why you complement yourselves here, for example, the ERTE? We used to mark the direction here. And with that marked direction, and all admitted that we must be marked in that direction by the European Socia letters, and not only in all our policies we wanted to execute, but in all our engagements, leading our jurisdictions to an extreme...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u65	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u66	... and in all the parameters we carry forward... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... we wanted to, in all our politics, carry our powers to the utmost...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u67	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u68	...and in all the parameters we carry forward. And the reality will see, and may be done in this sense, whether we will fill the letter actually marked, or be left in empty words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u70	President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Kortajarena, I believe that you have been taking advantage of the European Social Charter to make a place, to continue the dispute with the Basque Nationalist Party in which you are most nationalist, and that is expressed in your explanatory statement. It is true that you have then had a very confusing intervention and replica, and perhaps that is why in the end we are facing it, but in reality, you come to say, listen, we are Basques, the Basques can do what we believe appropriate, we have competences for everything and here we can establish our pensions, our interprofessional minimum wage or whatever happens to us. This is what you came here for. What happens is that, as I say, then you have made a very confusing speech, perhaps you have not dared so much, perhaps you have not found a climate in the House to move forward or deepen on that, and well, in the end you have left a somewhat (?)). I think it is appropriate, even as a gesture, to talk about the European Social Charter here. I think it is appropriate to talk about this Europe in which I at least recognize myself much more, this Europe in which it has been able to agree by a very dramatic circumstance, such as the pandemic, to make different economic and social policies, and which, by the way, is no longer to warn that they are conjuncture policies, and which will therefore depend on political action and on the whole of political action and on who wins in that political action between different options the fact that this conjuncture policy is consolidated, expanded and improved. I want the new Europe from an economic and social point of view, this new Europe in recent months, in the last two years, I want it to be projected towards the future, to be consolidated and to be improved, and this will actually depend on political action, and it is therefore good to think about it, it does not seem to me that it is a waste of time or something unnecessary that can be put forward here by these initiatives that allow us to talk about Europe. We need to be a little clearer in the approach and we need to be a little more specific in the approach. Certainly, whether it is a question of joining or joining the Social Charter, for we are already joined and we are already united. If it is a question of saying, listen, here we can do all the policy that we think is appropriate, because those who invoke the right to decide can say what they like and those who invoke the right to differentiate between Basques, can think that their way of expressing and doing politics is unlimited and can do so without belonging to a country called Spain or a Union called European, to a Constitution or to powers set out in the Statute of Gernika, well, then (...) The fight and it's the fight that Bildu can always take it out, and in this case, because he's taken it out. Then everything has become very confusing, very diffuse, it has not been able to spin that speech well and in the end, well, it has been, in the end, as an excessively papist thing, of, well, let's talk about the Social Charter of... then (?There is, in fact, a letter that has been practiced. How far we have been practicing, how far we know today, with many policies of a budgetary, economic and social nature, even with your help. Is this the horizon we want? The Socialists do not, we want more, others will want less, others will want it different, but it is true that we are acting on the 31 principles and rights, and then, well, we cannot make an approach here as if the Bill of Rights were being breached or if all those rights were fixed on binding content for all countries, when it is known that in economic, political and social matters, there are notable differences between the (...) Members of the European Union, although inspired by the same principles. I'm saying, I think you've done such an allambitious thing that this distilled at the end more than getting hold of it has only got water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u71	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, first of all, Mrs. Kotja, I'd like to say that I think it's good for me to talk about the European Social Card. You've started your speech on the first round, the compass, the ship... I can't remember how it is... I mean, talking about that phrase. And when you said that, I thought of another sentence. I don't know who the author is, or is old age, but there was one who said: He who knows where he goes needs to know where he's from. And, in that respect, I think we have a clear idea of where we come from and where we would have liked to go. And we are conscious of the changes which you have alluded to: digital revolution, ecological, transitions, etc., etc. But I think... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ... here you have mentioned the changes which we have before us: digital revolution, ecological, transitions, etc., etc. But, I think, if we all ask for change, we should start to change a few points of view, and, instead of always seeing them as threatening, we should perhaps begin to see them as possible. For sometimes it seems that we have threats and threats upon us, and it is only in our discourse about it that we feed a discourse which is well formed and well rounded first. Eta, aldaketa horretan, aldatus beharko genituzke gauza asko. Gu geu ére aldatu beharko ginateke, aipatu dudan bidetik beharbada. Bath, hut, aldotu beharko genituzke empresak, age, horretarako, trading kolektiboari aukerak eman behar zaizkio. Baina, bai, egon zen hemen, aurreko legegintzaldian, ekimen bat, eta da empresa inklusiboena eta parta-hartzaileena jorratu beharko genukeena. It's time, nik uste, benetak akordio beats the irritator and ahal izango litzatekeela. Aipatu duzu, ez dakit nork esaten duela, "not running good times for life". In the years I've lived, I think I've known them a lot worse. I think I've known quite a lot worse times for life, and in the last eight or ten, the truth is, I think they're much better. And remembering that phrase of Ortega and Gasset, which spoke of two things: memory and hope. And with memory and hope, I believe that we will also have to address the future. You said we didn't come to the agreements, and in the first round you mentioned the bla-bla-bla-bla. Well, I-l-bla-bla-bla, you'll forgive me, but you'll excuse me. For here, in order to make an agreement, I am the only one who has made the proposal, whether good or bad or mediocre, and I have not received any opposition. I've gotten my opinions, but I've got my counter-proposies in writing, not them. So, bla-bla-bla, maybe we're not the most of us. I don't know what sort of a young man I used to say. And I, when things happen, don't think what others will say. But you will confess to me that there are some classics in every discussion, and very predictable ones, and we shall all have them. But when one says, I know what you'll say to me when I describe the good situation and the positive indexes-Well, well, I know what you'll say to me: I have to tell you that I have to kill him with self-internity and success, that we are in danger. That's why I'll tell you something. we ourselves have our concerns about the situation. We know that all the fields are its lights and shadows. And I think I have already said this before: I believe that we ought to continue on the road with the political and democratic patience of which I have been speaking, and that the frequent agreements we make should generally be much more numerous than we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u73	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Missat's gone. Popular-Ciudados, Mrs Garrido.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u74	Sí. Thank you, Mr. President. Well, if you'll excuse me, I'll leave the seat. Well, I would tell Mr Prieto that whenever he wants we can have a debate, even a monographic one, on Europe. I believe that the issue is undoubtedly of interest. And we could talk about the current moment in Europe, its strengths, its weaknesses. And that would be an extremely interesting debate. But I believe that a specific issue has been brought to us today, which, as you yourself have said, is redundant. It is redundant to talk about accession, or to talk about joining the European Social Charter, when Spain has already acceded since 1980, and then, later, too, it has acceded with its amendment. And, therefore, we applied the principles that are contained in it, as it could not be otherwise. That's right. That's the way it is, Mrs. Kotja's. Then I don't know what you expected with your proposal. We discussed it, but I don't think it's important. Mrs Kortajarena also made a reference to labour reform. I have to remind you that, now, with this dispute in the Socialist Party coalition government and we can, Europe has been very clear; that is, it does not want to hesitate and does not want strange things with labour reform. And that is why you know very well that Mr Sánchez himself has changed his speech and no longer talks about repealing labour reform. So bad, therefore, the labour reform, for the fulfilment of the objectives and the purposes that it is supposed to have such an instrument, has not had to be so bad: with the creation of 500,000 jobs each year, with the flexibility of the mechanisms to companies so that they can survive in crisis scenarios, with the possibility of creating jobs with much lower GDP growth than before the labour reform is in force, or with specific instruments such as ERTE, which have served so many people but which is an instrument that has been possible thanks to its inclusion in the labour reform. Eta, bukatzeko, aipatu nahi nuen, nik uste dut horrelako baliabideak aldarrikatzea, European Social Charter aldarrikatzea (egin?) daitekeela, but I think that, Mrs Kortajarena, considering that she is part of the EH Bildu group, I think that they would have to claim respect for human rights, fundamental rights, and the first is life. And in that regard, I must remind you that you have an outstanding subject, which is to condemn ETA terrorism. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u75	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Podemus, Mr. Angulo mustn't speak a word. [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ... without, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u76	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Together, Mr. Angulo mustn't speak. [[Pause]] After discussion, we'll vote the original text of the other proposal as the EH Collector. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 73; the supporters are 25; the opponents are 48; abstentions, 0; white, 0.1,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u77	So it's not accepted. We're going to vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and the Euccanists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 73; the supporters 45; the contrary is 1. The abstations, 27; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u78	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "About the measures necessary for the members of the terrorist organization to reject and avoid the parliamentary organizations of Popular-Ciudadus." Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Gil, representing the Popular-Ciudadnanos, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I must begin by acknowledging that I never imagined that my political commitment to liberal ideas would lead me to a day like today, to have to defend in this rostrum a subject like this, which I, like the rest of Basque society, considered to have to be resolved long ago. However, reality obliges me to ask you once again for a commitment to democracy, justice, dignity and coexistence. And I say once again, because, as you all know, this issue has already been discussed on many occasions in this House: on February 22, 2018 for example; and the last, on October 3, 2019, in which a proposal to reject the tributes and receptions that are made to members of the terrorist organization ETA when they are released from prison was approved. And if it is necessary today to raise the issue again, and to repeat the debate, it is because these acts, incredibly, continue to be held. Pain and humiliation continue to be inflicted on the victims, history continues to be rewritten, and our young people continue to be deceived. We are not talking about this happening or happening at this time once. We're not talking about isolated incidents. The supporting text of the initiative itself, which everyone has been able to see, makes a small account of some of the public events that have taken place in recent weeks. On August 15, a concentration was held in Bilbao to pay public tribute to the Maite Pérez era. On 16 August, a banner was placed in San Sebastián, paying tribute to members of the terrorist gang ETA Rafael Echeveste and Maite Pérez. On August 16, a banner was placed in Hernani congratulating the Gorka Loran era. On August 18, a painting appeared in Gorliz asking for amnesty for ETA terrorists in prison and fugitives from justice. On August 21, there was a public tribute, with stage, floral offering and honour aurresku, to three members of ETA in San Sebastián. On 23 August, in Santutxu, Agustín Almaraz was given an ointment; with music, flags, street passes and applause, as reflected in the media. It must therefore be made clear: this initiative has been made necessary by those who continue to support, organize and defend these acts. I wish it hadn't been necessary once more. But what we can't do, what we're not going to do is never shut up and stop bringing here and where we need it, whenever we need it, the loud and clear denunciation of these anti-democratic behaviors and contrary to the most basic human rights. Imagine that one day you open the newspaper and read the following headlines: "Thousands of people focus on several villages in Galicia to ask for the freedom of El Chicle"; or "Ana Julia Quesada gets out of jail acclaimed by 60 neighbors": or "A street passerby of honor for the murderer of Lardero". Can you imagine? No, right? And in case that happened one day, can you imagine the suffering added to Diana Quer's family, Gabriel's child or Alex's family? Wouldn't this whole House agree that, with the terrible suffering that these families have had and will have for life, it is unfair that they must once again endure that part of society applauds, honors and receives as heroes the murderers of their families? Well, this, which is unimaginable anywhere else,... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... part of society applauds, honors and receives as heroes the murderers of their family members? For this, which is unimaginable anywhere else, happens in our villages, in our streets and in our squares. I've read them some imaginary headlines before. Now I'm going to read you some that have actually been published. "A street passer-by of honor for the terrorist of the nine orphans." "Agustin Almaraz, the age that Sortu has received in Bilbao with txistu and ikurriñas, who left nine children without a father." Another, "60 people hail Aitor Fresnedo, who has turned 25 for the murder of a national police officer." And another, "The murderer of 39 Henri Parot was to receive a tribute on September 18 in Mondragon. The pressure of the Democrats achieved a modest but symbolic step, which would deconvocate the great march initially planned." But as a part of Basque society still thinks that killing was okay and can't even... He doesn't even want to get out of his past, they tried to trick us with a change of... by concentrations in several towns of Euskadi. And so, in passing, they made it difficult for the police to follow up. And it must be made clear. For those who consider that citizenship can be deceived, we must say no, that they do not deceive us, that we see what happens clearly because they do so in the centers of the villages, in front of the houses of the victims and because they seek the maximum possible exposure. They are not, as they want us to believe, simple family acts of hugging a prisoner who goes out of jail. They are not intimate acts of celebration for the recovery of a neighbor or a family member. We have eyes and ears and we see how, without modesty, calls are made to occupy the public space, ikurriñas are waved, flares are lit, makilas are handed over, human corridors are made, flowers are handed over, streetwalks are played, political speeches are launched, Txalapartas are played and the murderers, who have been killed by the back of those who did not think like them, who have been bombed with the aim of imposing a political project on this society in a total way. Genuine covens of hatred, fanaticism and unwiseness, which have long been outside the time this society lives in. These acts in which one way or another pays tribute to terrorists convicted of murdering and extortioning democrats, to innocent citizens convey a very clear message to Basque society. The message that they do not regret anything, that they still consider that ETA was necessary, that they still think that killing was good and that they still think that their killers were heroes, gudaris, to whom this society should be grateful, honor as heroes and take as models. The fact that murder and terrorism are still high today, the fact that violence is not condemned, means that part of Basque society remains ill. Sick of hatred, fanaticism and violence. That there is still a part of Basque society that wants to live together in freedom, that does not want to respect others, that does not admit ideas different from its own, that applauds the use of violence to achieve political ends. But to exalt murder and terrorism is not to want Euskadi. It is to want to turn Euskadi into a ghetto of hatred, violence and totalitarian imposition. And this is not today's Euskadi. Tribute to murderers, who were killed behind the back, who were bombed today creates a huge shame on Basque society, which needs to heal the enormous wound that ETA has done to him. That is why these inhuman acts of public tribute to the murderers and terrorists are the pending subject of the left abertzale to convince Basque society that they are a real democratic force. And that is why the others have the moral, civic and ethical obligation to say loud and clear that these attitudes are not acceptable in a democratic society, which represent a totalitarian intention that tarnishes the progress and image of this party, forgiveness, of this people, and that we are not prepared to allow it. Because it is not acceptable that at this point in the twenty-first century we should try to continue to whitewash and justify terror and violence, that there be those who continue to live in the cave of hatred and fanaticism and intransigence, that try to make us live with others with a culture of hatred, imposition and brutality contrary to human rights. It is not acceptable for anyone in his or her right mind to continue infringing harm and humiliation on the victims of terrorism, when the whole of society is asking them to recover their reason once and for all and get out of the cave, condemn violence and bet on coexistence. And the question that inevitably arises from us is: Why don't you do it? Why are they resisting something as basic as recognizing that killing was wrong, that prisoners are not heroes but criminals and murderers? And two answers come to these hard questions. The first is that they don't because they can't. Bildu has a serious problem with his prisoners, who remain an essential part of his culture, his past and his identity. And despite the enormous political costs that Bildu has in this position defending the indefensible, he is afraid of the worst consequences that would be a break in the support of these groups. This highlights the structural weaknesses of this political formation, whose main weaknesses lie more within than outside it. And the second answer that irreparably comes to my head when someone needs to make so much display, as these acts, of the past, of the violence of ETA, of the defense of the terrorists is that this position, deep down, is suffering from a huge weakness. Because, of course, even in the cave there are more and more people who have flashes of lucidity. But it's about time we got older, matured, took responsibility for what was done, faced the problem and rectified, because it's better late than never. And meanwhile, yesterday, today and tomorrow, tributes continue in the streets of our towns and cities. Every time a terrorist goes out on the street, they will return, perhaps in front of the house of their victims, to make the hall of honor, to light the flares and to bow the ikurrins while they give him bouquets of flowers and congratulate him for killing well. And that this continues to happen is responsible. A little we're all for allowing it. But, first of all, the authorities, that having instruments... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ... That this continues to happen is responsible. A little we're all for allowing it. But, first of all, the authorities, which have sufficient legal instruments, prefer not to apply them. And also legislators for not being able to give better legal coverage to prevent these acts. And especially we are unable to agree on something so basic and so important, looking for the differences between the parties and doing a small, low-flying policy that so much rejection generates in Basque society. And that this is happening has far more serious and far deeper consequences than it appears. Firstly, because it is hindering and delaying the recovery of normalcy to Basque society, which was deeply wounded and traumatized by ETA's terrorist activity and needs to reconcile with itself. Secondly, because it is transmitting to our young people a tremendously pernicious message: that killing was right if it was done to impose an ideology and that murderers are the heroes to whom they must emulate. And this will certainly generate violence in the future. But we cannot properly analyse this matter without focusing on Bildu, the political organisation that is covering these acts, which has defended them and which continues to defend them in this Parliament and in each of the municipalities where it has been able to do so and which refuses to condemn terrorist violence. Bildu, as we have said, has an obvious and serious problem with his prisoners, who are trying to manage by kicking the ball forward. And in the meantime, he is discrediting himself before Basque society, losing support, even internal support, and seriously undermining his future. Nothing or anyone works against Bildu more than they themselves maintain that attitude. Bildu is thus demonstrating a major democratic deficit in the face of Europe as a whole, because a current party cannot defend violence as an instrument for political ends. And when they don't condemn her or when they're defending those tributes, they're doing it. Look, gentlemen of Bildu, do not interpret my words as an attack on your party, but rather as an opportunity. Today you have a new chance to get out of all this crap. They have it very easy, enough to vote affirmatively. But I'm afraid we can't even expect a abstention from you yet. That's how green you are. But we all know that within their ranks there are more and more voices calling for a change in this, that in privacy they confess that they cannot admit that killing was right, that it was a mistake and a failure. And I encourage each of you individually to be brave and to help your own formation stand out today, because in this way you will start a returnless path that history will recognize as a great contribution to your own party. But let us not forget the position of the parties that support the Government. Unfortunately, today we will not be able to get out of this House an agreement, as has already happened, of all the parties except Bildu. And this is going to happen, I have to say, for two reasons. On the one hand, for his refusal to sign anything with Vox. They're not even willing to argue with them. I have to tell you that I do not understand that position and that it seems very undemocratic to me, and especially when you have no scruples in negotiating, discussing or agreeing with Bildu. And, on the other hand, I do not understand your somewhat immutable attitude on this issue either. To accept tributes without further ado, making a somewhat cynical interpretation of freedom of expression and without assuming any responsibility in this regard, does not seem to me welcome. But I cannot and do not want to end this intervention without remembering the victims. They are indeed the true heroes of our democracy, because no one has paid so much for it. They have indeed given us an example of dignity, maturity and democracy, which we will never sufficiently recognize. From here I want to tell you loud and clear "Thank you therefore. Thank you for everything." They do deserve halls of honor, bouquets of flowers, tributes and fireworks, because they are our example and the model to follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u80	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mistto, Mrs Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, in Vox we reject and strongly condemn the tributes to the ages and any act of exaltation, commemoration or remembrance of those murderers who have caused so much pain. Mr. Gil. It is indeed a complaint that has already been brought repeatedly in this Parliament. Last time, I want to remind you that it was October 15, 2020. And on that occasion she was defended by Vox. Remember it, you guys. By the way, no one participated except for the PP. Funny, all of you are debating today. In short, very democratic. It is now again being debated in this House, bringing it on the agenda of the People-Citizens Group. And, as I say, they do now debate. When you bring up the subject of the delectable ongi etorris on so many occasions it is because this act of homage to the ages remains habitual in our streets. And this is something we should not allow if we want a healthy democracy. Something I doubt we have. From Vox we are clear that the diagnosis of this problem we have, we know where it is. But it must be dealt with forcefully, firmly. You guys are out of line with the law, you always keep it in mind, which is very good, and we're defending it, too. But they forget the order. Law and order. In this same House on October 3, 2019, a transactional was approved with broad support from the whole House. Why don't we apply it and root out this insult to the victims? Moreover, the transactional that today bring us PNV, PES and Podemos is practically a copy of what was approved in 2019. Gentlemen, we are at the end of 2021 and we continue to bring what has already been approved in 2019. That's funny. We must end with these tributes to etarras and all those similar initiatives because they have only one purpose: to whitewash ETA's criminal history. The grievances to the victims of terrorism are not only in tributes, we see them every day in our villages, in our cities, painted that remain months on our walls, banners exalting terrorism, graffiti with the faces of murderers. Who is responsible for all this to last so long in time? Why do Basque government and municipalities do nothing? This Parliament must act more tenaciously so that all the resources available to this Government can be used to prevent the summoning of such shameful tributes. This Parliament must protect, once and for all... [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... so that all the resources available to this Government can be used to prevent the summoning of such shameful tributes. This Parliament must once and for all protect the honour and memory of the victims of ETA terrorism. We insist once again on the need for our Ertzaintza to have all the tools necessary to act in these cases. We also believe that an amendment to the current legislation is necessary in order to prohibit such acts, which would allow for criminal action against those who organize and summon tributes against such persons. Legislation that provides the Basque authorities and the police with the necessary tools to prevent, prevent and/or punish individuals who intend to continue to mock the victims. Memory, dignity, truth and justice. These words so used by Mrs Artolazabal, who is also present here today, lose all meaning as long as the ongitorris continue to be celebrated and developed in our society and continue to be an insult to the victims. Is that so much to ask? Since Vox, we don't think so. It's just a long way to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u82	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u83	Good afternoon. Unfortunately, after the discussion today, there will be no consensus, at least in discussion, and at least in the text we have signed, though at last the several groups will agree. And it is not intelligible to us, in the legislature which has passed, that there are at least four groups of people, about the same text we had; Of course we haven't signed a half-way with Vox, just because he's on the verge of our extreme, and we don't admit him as a democratic party. And it's a pity, especially the next day of the Memorial Day, to give an image of this kind from the Basque Legal, at least from some groups. Lately, in the Basque Country we are talking, reading, listening, even watching some films about the years of terrorism in Euskadi, about the years of political violence in Euskadi, about the years of human rights violations in Euskadi, and above all also about the consequences of such violence, and above all also focusing on where we think it has to be, which is on the victims. There was a homage yesterday at Donostian. A homage was given to civil society, to a civil society which had made a deep wager for peace. Since the first mobilization against ETA terrorism, made in Portugalete in 1978 and convened by the Basque Communist Party, the basic Catholic movements for peace, the Gesto for Peace, Elkarri and Lokarri, and so many individuals who always opposed political violence came from wherever it came from. And it's good, we believe and we think it's good, talking about everything that's happened in Euskadi. And above all it is good to listen, to listen to those who are different, to hear testimonies of victims of all kinds, but also to society in general, and also to people who have committed serious violations of human rights and who, in one step, in a gesture of repentance, take steps in this recognition of the damage caused, in a clear commitment of reconciliation and commitment to the delegitimization of violence. A few weeks ago, Edurne Portela wrote that it would surely be impossible, and possibly not desirable, to build a unified account of our past. But it was necessary to realize a minimum of truth shared among all and among all. And that truth, we share with Edurne Portela in Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, goes through the absolute delegitimization of all violence in democracy. And this is in our middle course, the concept which we seek to express in our middle-rate, our worth, our political activity: because there is no such thing as political violence in a democracy. Unfortunately, historically, violence has been feeding a great deal in this country, in a very serious connection of disappointment. A total disconnect between politics and ethics, as if they were both categories belonging to separate worlds. As if political objectives or reasons of state should not be subject to any ethical principles. As if the crime were self-justification by perpetuating itself in the name of an ideal, a political reason or a state reason. Today, again, I think it would have to be a consensus among all groups, that no political goal, no justification for no death. Today we have come to talk about an initiative of the People's-Citizens Party on the so-called ongitorris. In our opinion, the ongitorris, which, if carried out as an area of exaltation, are a clear example of open wounds that do not end up closing in this country. And in this we have a very clear demand: that public tributes be stopped, that the political will that we have heard from the Abertzale Left over the last few years and weeks, we think that it is also sincere, and we think that the road is that, in which that road does not re-pay tributes to people who have committed serious violations of human rights. And that hand, in that sense of everything in our hand, said by the Left Abertzale, we think it is the way, and that will also be our level, our request and our proposal for the future. Honestly, I'm saying we think that's the way. That path, for example, also the consensus we have today, the consensus of the last legislature and also other consensuses worked within the framework, for example, of the Social Forum, by many of the political parties that we are in this House. We think that's the way. Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we have very clear that it is one thing to rejoice and that your loved ones show love and welcome to a person who comes out after a lot... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ... The way. Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we have very clear that it is one thing to rejoice and that your loved ones show love and welcome to a person who comes out after many years of imprisonment, that this is a situation, a very clear demand that we make in our amendment, the relatives and relatives of the imprisoned persons, who have the right to welcome these people who have also served their sentence, but also at the same time we propose and very clearly that the receptions be carried out in areas that do not involve an exaltation and are made devoid of the elements that may lead to an exaltation or that may damage the memory and the concrete moment of the victims. We believe that they cannot be an element that becomes an element of division and an added difficulty in building a democratic coexistence in which we must continue to take many steps in Euskadi. And we also do it from the defense of the right to a second chance for all the people who have it when they get out of... all the people who have it when they get out of prison. We repeat, in view of the future, the degradation of violence is indispensable. The confession of pain, the rights of the victims in the middle, a second chance for the prisoners, making such proposals. In our proposal... I'm sorry, that's what we're proposing, that these Olympics deny the second holiday or opportunity of prisoners. And if there's no such homage as society, we'll win a lot. But the solution, the solution is neither with the police nor with the Criminal Code, it is with the construction of consensus, with the construction of ethical imperatives that must bind us all, above all with a very clear vision that the victims must be, of all human rights violations, at the centre of political action and public action and political action by all parliamentary groups and all groups in this House. The messages we've seen for the past few weeks, and the steps that whole society has taken in the last decades, in that sense, are good steps. And together we protect Podemos-Nozera. Our future, we must build our memory together, our memory victims must be in the centre. And that's why we signed this middle-class, because there's a consensus that these public homages are never going to happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u84	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u85	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. Mr Gil Vegas brings today a non-legislative proposal on a matter that we have discussed many times in this House and on which my group has no problem at all in re-disputing, or on the contrary, but perhaps add something new. Socialists will never tire of denouncing tributes to terrorists who have just left prison, which we consider absolutely unacceptable from every point of view. Unacceptable, because they involve humiliation of the victims, who have to see how the release of the murderers of their relatives is celebrated in full public. They involve double victimization, because the physical violence they suffered at the time is now followed by the symbolic violence of seeing how they honor the killer, the one who put the bomb or the one who shot him in the back. But they are also a humiliation for the whole of Basque society, because a society that is considered healthy and decent cannot allow, should not allow the public and festive tribute of murderers as if they were a referent. Because these receptions, kalejiras, montages of all kinds that we have seen in recent times, what they do is to elevate the terrorist to the status of hero, to tell the people and especially the young, to the new generations, that it is an example to follow and that its cause was just. What they do, in short, is recognize that killing was okay. That the crimes had a raison d'être, and that's exactly what we can't admit. We have said it many times and there they will find us, Mr Gil Vegas, of course they will find us in the condemnation and rejection of the ongi etorris. They will find us in the defense of the victims, in the search for recognition, truth and reparation for those victims. We will be found in all initiatives aimed at delegitimizing violence and promoting ethical and democratic values among citizens, especially among the young people of the Basque Country. They will find us in the firm demand of the abertzale world to put an end to these tributes, there they will always find us socialists. Where you are not going to find us, as you will understand, is in the strategies that come from Madrid to try to wear down the government led by Pedro Sánchez, because that and not anything else, is the request for the cessation of the government delegate that you have incorporated into the initiative of origin that you have already presented, by the way, also in the Congress of Deputies, in the Senate and that now brings us here, because you know, and this has been discussed here many times already, that the government cannot itself prohibit these acts, and you are aware, perfectly aware of it. It has already been said that the Act on the Recognition and Protection of Victims of Terrorism prohibits acts of exaltation of terrorism, and you know that both the delegate of the Government and the security forces, the Ertzaintza, the National Police, the Civil Guard, are already taking steps that are in their hands to prevent the development of acts that entail the exaltation of terrorism. When the delegate of the Government is aware of the organization of an ongi etorri, he shall request information from the security forces and bodies and shall refer it to the Office of the Public Prosecutor of the National Court if he considers that he is carrying out any criminal action or requesting its prohibition. You know that when the act is organized by a City Council, the Delegation makes the appropriate administrative dispute appeal, but that when a particular individual does, the matter is more complicated, because the criminal way does not contemplate this issue and those resources are not prospering, and it does not do so now, but for years. Because if article 578 of the Criminal Code provides for the rise of terrorism and humiliation of victims, it does, but the case law established by the Constitutional Court, the European Parliament and the Council requires that such actions involve a real risk to individuals or to the system of freedoms. And you know that since 2017 the National Audience has been considering that when it comes to non-active organizations... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ... for people or for the system of freedoms. And you know that since 2017 the National Court has been considering that when it comes to non-active organizations, such as ETA, there is no such risk, and therefore it is appropriate to file these complaints. And the last example we had last September with the tribute march to Henri Parot. You know all that, because that was already happening when I was ruling the People's Party and the delegates of your party's government were tired of exploring that criminal route with no success, let alone by the way. And as you know all that, Mr. Gil Vegas, you will understand that you see nothing but an opportunistic strategy in this initiative. And it will assume that among my immediate tasks after the Congress of the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra is not to request the cessation of my colleague Denis Itxaso, whom I certainly greatly appreciate, but above all because I believe that he is doing a magnificent job and in the case that we are dealing with today he is scrupulously complying with the law, which is what belongs to a rule of law. And you'll wonder and then what, do we stay still?, at all. On the one hand, the Government of Spain is already working on an amendment to the Victims of Terrorism Act to equip itself with instruments to combat these acts, which the People's Party certainly did not do in the seven years in which it was in the Government. And on the other hand, there is what we point out in the first and third points of the initiative that we and the Nationalist Group put forward as an amendment to their initiative, in which we urge those who organize and promote these acts to stop doing so and we call on all parties, absolutely all parties, institutions and social actors, to actively promote the delegitimization of violence among citizens. Because one thing is the criminal route, whose route we already know, and another, which belongs to the political parties, which we can work here, which is in our hands. Another thing, what we can contribute from here, is the support and accompaniment of the victims, which we also do in this House and we do so much from the parties that we are represented here on the road to memory, in the construction of a democratic coexistence, because, as I said at the beginning, that in the middle of 2021, ten years after the end of ETA, tributes continue to be paid to ages, even if they are less, let alone by way of passage, is unacceptable, because with that nobody wins absolutely, on the contrary, we lose everyone as a society, and it is up to us all, even some more than others, to take measures to end them. This is a responsibility to the patriotic left. It's your housework, because it's your people, because it's your world. And you know this is unacceptable. You know it's humiliating that tie that binds you to the past. You have to cut. Otherwise we can't go on living together. Otherwise it'll be impossible to close the wounds. If not, it will be impossible to build a new one for all of us, if a few will continue to hurt the majority. And if, as you said, you want to ease the suffering you caused, the first thing you can do would be to end with welcome. Because it is your responsibility, it is the responsibility of the abertzale left to put an end to all this and to end the madness that in the streets and squares of Euskadi are justified stories of crimes and terror, because that is your people, because they answer to you many times and the question is that they know and have said it already. Three weeks ago in Aiete yourself, Mr Rodríguez, you committed yourself to mitigating, to the extent of your possibilities, the suffering caused to the victims of ETA, according to your own words, to alleviate it from respect, consideration and memory. And if you really think so, if you really were sincere your statements, here you have a first damage to mitigate, here you have a first wound that continues to bleed and that it is up to you to make that scar. Because it is useless to say that the pain of the victims is felt as long as the victim continues to be glorified, it is useless to say that all this should never have happened as long as the person responsible for it is honoured, because in the end paying tribute to the terrorists is only another way to legitimize terrorism, and because if they really feel the pain of the victims, the least they can be asked to do is to put order in their house and prevent them from being humiliated on the public street and between applause from their neighbours. This is your plan. This is the contribution you can make on the way to partnership. And since it was over, it's been 10 years. And we don't want 10 more passes until we stop reporting terrorists. The progress of a democratic life is a matter of everyone, but we will hardly succeed in doing things as unacceptable as welcome. If your words are honest, we'll see them with acrobats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u86	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u87	Mr. President, Mr. President, chief of the departments, members of the legislature, all good days. We challenge public homages made to men, whether they be members of the community or members of the community, when, as a means of obtaining political ends, they have been employed or justified by violence. These persecutions are contrary to the defence of human rights, and they insult victims. In February 2018, October 2019, and November 2021, I begin to speak with the same words. I used other words, actually synonymous, but for what? For if we are speaking of basic things, why? We're talking about basic principles today. Basic rights, basic values. And to that end, three ideas are sufficient to explain our view. Simple, simple ideas, but founded on any democratic society. One for political purposes or for the defence of the state, human rights... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... those which are fundamental in any democratic society. One, for the attainment of political ends, or for the defence of the state, is not permitted to violate human rights. It was innocent, it's not acceptable, it has no justification. Two, all the victims have the same rights: true, rights to justice and attention. And three victims deserve respect and respect. Any initiative that increases their suffering must be rejected. And that's all there is to it. You don't have to stay here any longer. That, in truth, is enough to believe and proclaim. And, therefore, I will not extend further. We have said this many times, and in this Parliament too. These are three basic principles in a democratic society that respects human rights. One, violating fundamental human rights to defend a political project or for reasons of state is not acceptable. It's unfair and it's wrong. It's bad now and it was bad before. Two, all victims of human rights violations have the same rights to truth, justice and reparation. And three, all the victims, all the victims deserve our respect and consideration, and we must avoid any act that increases their suffering. Unfortunately, something so basic remains impossible for this Parliament to proclaim it unanimously. And no, Mr. Gil Lazarus, we're not all responsible for this. This is not something that is prorated. Those responsible for this are those who organize, justify, defend or silence these tributes. We're not all of us. These tributes have also happened – said Mr Andueza before – with PP governments and other government delegates. And yes, Mr Gil, fundamental rights are for all people, and the right to freedom of expression, the right to demonstration are fundamental rights that judges and courts have been protecting over and over again. Okay, I'm done. It seemed like ten years was enough time to share this minimum. And yet, despite the words of understanding pain, of commitment to alleviate the suffering of the victims, to show empathy, everything is subject to the facts. How many more years do we have to spend so we can pass this page? Our commitment to these principles has been clear in the past, it is now and will be clear in the future, because they are essential for building a fully democratic and decent society. And assuming them is a necessary condition for any shared project. So simple and, unfortunately, so complicated.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u88	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. The next round of the group that has not issued any correction, Mr. Arzuaga, the representative of the EH Collect Group... Mr. Rodriguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u89	Yeah. Chief of Parliament, Mr. President, members of the legislature. 77,5% of the victims, no confessional, no official confession, remains. 99.1% of the tortured friends remain without any confession. It's important to remember that those people, according to the report by RedMingon, are 4.113. The relatives of Pertur, Napar, and Pompe Lare, continue to seek the corpses of their relatives. 200 prisoners and their relatives remain victims to a criminal and vengeful prison policy still established. A political, in some measure, and in many cases unlawful. And a policy which has caused the death of 16 relatives and 31 prisoners. At this very moment, it is well known, if on the shoulder of the 7 euskal population there is a threat of imprisonment until 17 years old. It was the crime of these seven people, to work for the rights of euscal prisoners, and, in a sense, for the fire. I myself, ladies and gentlemen, am currently awaiting the second trial for the Bateragune case, 12 years after my arrest, having served the six-year sentence imposed on us until the last day. Why? And for having promoted the Left's abertzale bet by exclusively peaceful and democratic means. And after the European Court of Human Rights ruled that that sentence was not only unfair, but also illegal. In the meantime, both the aristocratic crimes, the terrorism of the state, and all the tortures of the last 40 years, remain in complete impunity. Neither Frenchists, torturers, nor criminals of the dirty war have, in some measure, paid a single sentence of prison. Billy the Child and the rest of the more than 100 members of the State Security Forces and Corps involved in dirty war or torture and decorated for the services provided continue to display public and political medals, promotions and pensions, in some cases vitalties. Their parties, lords of the PP and Citizens, continue to minimize, when not denying, realities such as torture, humiliating and revictimizing their thousands of victims. In fact, your party... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... when not denying, realities like torture, humiliating and revictimizing their thousands of victims. In fact, his party, Mr. Gil, and his coalition ally, the People's Party, continue to exalt Francoism and prevent any progress in democratic memory, dedicating streets to the coup player Millán Astray or the butcher of Sevilla Queipo de Llano, to mock the thousands of families who still have their own in the gutters. Your party, Mr Gil, and the People's Party, continue to exalt the Civil Guard every 12 October, a military corps to which the report on torture, to which I referred earlier, attributes, nothing more and nothing less, than 1,589 cases of torture. And the State, the Spanish State, continues to impose the unity of Spain above the democratic will of Basques and Catalans, as we were able to see on October 1, 2017. Mr Gil, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you do not want the construction of peace and coexistence, because, if it were, you would bear, first and foremost, against all those realities, those, tearing, bleeding and humiliating, from every point of view. Mr Gil, you, you do not seek to build peace and coexistence. No, no, Because if they did, they would not continue to manipulate, force and distort this matter as they do, and, of course, they would not bring to this House criminalizing proposals, proposals that they seek to continue filling prisons, when it is precisely about emptying them. Mr Gil, at this point, you know perfectly well that the ongi etorri are not acts of homage, much less of exaltation, but of receiving, celebrating and expressing joy at the release of loved ones who, it cannot be forgotten, have fulfilled their sentences in full and who, it is also worth remembering, have made an unequivocal bet on the peaceful and democratic paths, contributing decisively to the disappearance of the violence of ETA. Thus, they are, as it were, acts of reintegration of such persons into their family environment, a stated objective, by the way, of the prison legislation in force. On the other hand, you know, that most of these welcomes have long since been made with discretion, especially those who form such welcomes, and even those prisoners, by their profound respect for the victims and the profound respect they feel. And so they say, as it were, this year: Only two of these welcomes from 35 outdoors have had some public echoes. That is to say, if they have had it, it has been because there are those who, interestedly, have taken care of it, to dimension them and to exploit them mediaically for purposes that we all know. Mr. and Mrs. P.P., you don't seek peace and conviction or life together. You're looking for something else. You're looking for these people not to have rights and social places. You seek in general the solution of this affair, the solution of the case of the prisoners. And in this way it would be difficult for him to solve the conflict itself. What is worse, what you seek is to know and to impose one: the best and most wicked of all, the best and best of all, the most just and unjust of all. A story that has little to do with what has happened in this people, and a story about which, of course, a just, stable and lasting peace cannot be built. They seek to make you believe that in this people there has been no political conflict, that the close to 400 murdered and thousands of tortured by the State are the fruit of our imagination, that the only violence has been that of ETA, and that the only victims worthy of such consideration are also those of ETA. But reality is clumsy, Mr. Barrio. Not only has ETA violence existed here. There have been multiple violence and multiple responsibilities here. There has been dirty war and state terrorism here. Thousands and thousands of people have been tortured here. Here he has thrown himself to death in demonstrations and roadblocks. The media have been closed here, and political parties have been illegalized. People have been imprisoned here for their ideas. And here there are still thousands of people buried in the gutters. The ladies and ladies of PPko and Ciudadanose, peace and mutual life demand the confession and observation of all the victims. All of them. Of the victims, no doubt. But also the victims of state violence. Peace and mutual life require a temporary dissolution of all individuality or exceptional circumstances in the prison, and by the application of the common law level up the political prisoners by the application of the common law (... .). Peace and mutual life demand that the construction of an Inclosive or Inclosive Memory, of a Corlato, and of a great number of Corlatos, may be made their own relatation, always with one condition. And it is to prevent him from denying any of those violences and sufferings which he spoke of. Peace and coexistence require, in short, that you also do what is already being done by leftist independence: to assume your share of responsibility for the violence and sufferings that have taken place in this people. Make your own statement on 18 October. And above all, to actively commit to what must be the guiding principle of this new cycle: all rights for all people. From the right to life, which is beyond doubt, to the right to self-determination of peoples. I'm done. Gentlemen of the PP and Citizens, you intend to continue digging trenches. We want to build bridges. You are in the battle of the tale... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... PP and Citizens, you intend to continue digging trenches, we want to build bridges. You are in the battle of the story, we are in the construction of peace and coexistence. That is why we are not going to support his initiative, we are not going to contribute as little as possible to fuel his agenda, and that is why we also call on the rest of the groups not to do so out of responsibility. Instead, we're going to do something far more fruitful...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u90	Finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u91	... constructive, important and rewarding. We will continue to make progress on the path we took ten years ago. We will continue to deepen the commitments contained in the Declaration of 18 October. Yes, Mr Andueza has no doubt, if something proves that statement and if something proves these past ten years, it is that the independence of the left is not alien to those requests, those requests...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u92	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u93	... those demands which, in constructive, honest terms, and above all privately, are made to him. I can assure you that from now on and in relation to this matter it will not be different either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u94	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Passing the answers, Mr. Gil is the representative of the popular team of Basques.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Andueza, do you really think that asking for something as basic as stopping public receptions from terrorists is a strategy against Sanchez? Do you really think that? We're talking about something very elementary and very basic and I think it's to mix things up a little bit. No, look, it seems to me that you have confused the objective of the initiative, this is not an initiative against the SOE, this is an initiative to regain the dignity of Basque society, it has nothing to do with the SOE. What I don't understand and what I don't know is why you're being questioned about this subject and I'm worried that you're being questioned, of course. Look, with regard to the delegate of the Government, we do believe that the delegate of the Government can do more than he is doing and that we are really asking him to do it, to wet himself a little bit more than asking the Ertzaintza for information when there is one of these things, that is, we believe there are more things he can do. But finally, Mr Rodríguez, the truth is that from your intervention I do not know exactly where to start, because what you have left is very obvious, very clear where you are, and you are in a situation, in a very different place from the rest of society. You're talking about prison policy, criminal and illegal. Look, we live in a rule of law, what was deeply criminal and illegal was killing people, that is deeply criminal and illegal. It has become clear that you continue to defend the prisoners. You will know what you are doing and why you are doing it, but this has become evident and it has also become evident in your intervention that you support the ongi etorris, because in reality you are the hand that moves the cradle, and this points to your own responsibility. But to be clear, we condemn all terrorism so that it does not serve as an excuse. Look, just last night there was an opening act, we could call it that, of a new association that has emerged in Euskadi, which is called (?), in Latin, not in Basque, where history and democracy and memory were spoken of, and the historian, who was speaking of one of them, José Antonio Pérez, gave us the figure: 92% of the victims of terrorism are from ETA, 92%. 95 % of (?) ETA murders occurred after Franco's death. Don't tell us the movie again that there were two sides here, that there was a war here, because no one believes this anymore, this is already... Anyway. And the problem is that we have recognized the victims and must do so tirelessly, but the reality is that after the victims, who were the direct victims, the victim of terrorism was the entire Basque society. Well, and this is what it is about to try to correct in some way, because Basque society is the one that continues to suffer those consequences. We will support the transaction that you, gentlemen of the PNV and the SOE, have signed with Podemos, because it is the same one that you signed with us before and we also share it, why have we not signed it?, we would have liked to take a step further for an obvious reason, and it is because the ongi etorris continue to occur; then, therefore, it seems obvious that it is not enough. That's why we think it's best that we defend... defend ours. It is true that I feel that there has been no unanimity here this morning or this afternoon, but I repeat that unanimity was broken by you when you refused to sign with Vox, and of course it was not our fault, that we have tried to negotiate as much as possible and that Mr Iturrate knows it, we have shown maximum flexibility to achieve this objective. Finally, let us hope that this will be the last time we have to repeat this debate in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u96	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Miss, Mrs Martínnez is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u97	Thanks to the fact that wisdom is growing among citizens, the presence of Vox is increasing and that of Podemos is becoming smaller, Mr Martínez. You represent the worst of the sectarian and anti-democratic left, and Vox is the third political force in Spain. The reason that there is no agreement today to reject tributes to serial killers, to move towards their ban, is not... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ... and Vox is the third political force in Spain. The reason that today there is no agreement to reject tributes to serial killers, to move towards their ban, is not Vox's. And you know it. You, who occupy the seats of PNV, PES and Podemos, have been guilty of not having this unit in the firm today. Yes, yes, you are Bildu's accomplices in this debate. And that's what it does to reflect an insult to the victims. I repeat, the responsibility is yours. They know what they have to do, and they don't. Let's do it. They let them use public spaces to insult those who still suffer the consequences of terrorism, which Herri Batasuna and his successors encouraged, applauded and continue to do. Yes, you who refuse to sign with Vox, but stun and sign with characters like Otegi, who are the ones who support the tributes of infamy. Those are democrats, aren't they, Communist gentlemen? You have turned this Parliament into the house of propaganda and lies. Yesterday Vox, this party that bothers you so much, was with the victims, and not in a photograph next to the lords of Bildu. And I'm going to move them, literally, what an ETA victim told us. I think it is something that must be brought to this House. I'm telling you about Antonio Salvá, Diego's father, the last fatal victim of the ETA criminal gang. And do you know what he told me about these tributes, about the evil ones called ongitorris? He told me, with much more legitimacy, besides, than you can have any of you or even of me: "Every tribute is as if you opened my son's grave again, the stage of turn would fire again at the remains, and the politician of the PSOE and PNV would spit out those same remains." That's what he told me yesterday when he was eating. Shame had to give you victims who still think this about you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u98	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together, Podemos-Nozzer, Mr Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u99	Thank you. Yeah, some communist's here. Thanks to the struggle of the people who preceded us you may be sitting in that chair today which, if by your ideas were, would not exist this Parliament. I believe that the debate must focus on this, as we are seeing in society. I believe that the image we are giving today is not the best in this Parliament. I think we need to learn a lot from the victims, who are also making a very important effort with reconciliation, with peace, and also with many people, with many victims, who are also taking firm steps in that direction. I want to... Or I'd like to put that on the table. Unfortunately, in Euskadi we have many victims. We have ETA victims. And then there have been many reported victims of para-police apparatuses, of the state itself, tortured, of other terrorist groups. We have many, unfortunately. And I think that's the basis, even if it's not a quantitative but a qualitative issue, that having so many people, victims of murders, human rights violations, torture, unjust imprisonment, newspaper closures, so many violations that have happened in this country... I believe that this should be the basis for all the political groups in this House to look at each other in the face and we can broaden the consensus that we already have on memory. We have to expand them. And that truth has to be shared, because that is the best way to delegitimize violence: that there is not a single tribute to any prisoner who has committed a human rights violation, who is also condemned by the State for each and every human rights violation that has been made on his behalf. That, I think, has to be the basis of the future. That must be the basis, let us also leave to the new generations that healing wounds, looking forward and building a coexistence that has as its basis the delegitimization of each and every violence that has been experienced, so that no one ever thinks that killing can be a tool to build a political alternative or defend a reason of state. The unanimity, Mr Gil, on these issues is not presented unilaterally. It is done working continuously, with a lot of cooking work, building consensus and attracting people who are not at the moment or who may not be at the moment in this transaction towards the agreements that we can all affirm. And even a GNP is not the most important thing. The most important thing is what you do next on the street. Por drop, we repeat, on the way to each other's life, these public homages cannot be given. You can't do it. They need to be delegated. The victims must be in the centre. And, watching the future, our neighbors... I'm sorry, we have to give our next generation a better Basque, all these things have to be over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u100	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u101	Thank you, ma'am. Look, Mr Gil Vegas, you cannot deny that you have brought this initiative to this House to attack the government and that this is part of a strategy that is perfectly coordinated, and that you have presented it in every chamber. And it is impossible that you can deny it, because the facts are obvious, and because it is precisely you who have incorporated, in that initiative of origin, the request for resignation or termination of the delegate of the Government. You tell me if that's not an attempt to attack and wear down the government. Don't deny the obvious. Look, since 2019 I think few things have changed. Probably three. The first, which you have separated from the consensus, which you have not wanted to continue to maintain in that consensus. You'll have to explain why. Probably, and in part it has recognized it, because its desire was more in agreement with the extreme right than with the democratic parties, that we have indeed stood firm to end those ongiatorris. What's changed? That you no longer govern, that you no longer govern the People's Party, that you now govern the Socialist Party. And that's something you can't stand. And, thirdly, there are many fewer ongitorris than when you ruled. And the data is there. And the data... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]] ...something you can't stand. And third, that there are many less ongi etorris than when you ruled. And the data is there. And the data is there. Therefore, perhaps the ones who have to explain are you and us. Mr. Rodriguez, I think your memory has failed a little bit, your memory has failed a little bit. You have spoken of many issues that are unresolved. That it is indeed true that they are unsolved, there are crimes that are unsolved, there are cases of torture that are unsolved, that have been dealt with in this House and of what... whose reports and whose committees we have also participated in the Basque Socialists. But it has been forgotten that there are also more than 300 unsolved ETA crimes and that perhaps it would not be much more if some of yours were involved in the clarification of those unsolved crimes. That, of course, the Basque Socialists will always, always, always find us in the condemnation of all violence, of absolutely all violence and in the claim of truth for all the victims, in the clarification of those murders, in the clarification of all cases of torture and, of course, also in the recognition of those victims. For something it was a socialist government, it was the vicelehendakari Idoia Mendia who passed the decree to recognize the victims of police abuse. And it was us, the socialists. And we will always be in that, in the condemnation, I repeat and repeat, of all the violence, not only of some, of all the violence, and in the clarification and demand of truth for those victims who are still waiting for it. And his memory has failed. Because you have brought us here a glossary of issues that are unresolved and also of issues that have occurred in this country, and the memory has failed you because you have failed to recognize that in this country you have been murdered, kidnapped, extorted, threatened by the mere fact of thinking different from you. And that part is fundamental, because it is precisely the part that challenges you. And it's, curiously, the one you've forgotten. Look, you can't pretend to move forward by making a part story. It's impossible. Because then the coexistence that we can build for the future will be a coexistence that has many shortcomings, serious shortcomings. And we all have to go this way without exception. You can't move forward when you don't assume what's yours. And I hope and hope that in the last part of your speech you will be ratified with facts and that indeed issues such as the ongi etorris and so many others that I believe must not be returned to producing, among other things, the recognition of everything, absolutely everything, of what has happened in this country, also come from your hand and not just from the hand of those from whom we have always defended democratic principles, peace and freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u102	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u103	Mrs. President. Mr. President. Partners. Mr. Gil, I honestly tell you, I think you're a good man and you have good intentions, and you've had them these days when you were talking to me. But unlike you, your proposal is not. His proposal had no good intentions. And, in fact, with your proposal and your attitude, what we do is unravel paths already walked in this Parliament. But well, you'll know why you did it. In any case, we continue to stick to those basic principles that were already adopted in 2019, which we have brought in our amendment and which I have tried to summarize and not extend in my first speech. I hope we can meet more and more. Mr. Rodriguez. How much we need to spread over the angular granite so that we don't have to focus on what we're doing today. How much to spread the angular pomegranates. Yeah. I agree, and I say that in taking my first word, all victims have the same rights, all victims deserve the same respect. And this eupscal institutions and legislature has frequently established that we have suffered different violences here. Our legislation says so too. The law of the origin of the severest principle establishes how much traumatic and violent experience this society has lived. And everyone needs his place when he is about to build his space in our society, when he's going to exercise his memory. But the one hasn't got the other. ) must. And you've given up the subject we're talking about today, and then you're trying to get rid of that gangangular. I really don't know what to think, what to believe. It is really good ends, good intentions, good intentions, that you have good intentions about this subject, or whether it is to kick the nest when you talk about it or to kick it in front of it, and this time again. It's a question of how to put it into words. And I think, and in a low way, there was a way of making progress today. And I thought... As a matter of fact, I'll be honest with you. You and the baker... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ... And I thought... As a matter of fact, I'll be honest with you. When I saw you and the baker, I told them I didn't believe it. And I mean honestly. Of course, you will have an opposite opinion, and you will have your opinions on my credibility; But yet I did an exercise, and I thought: "Well, maybe it's really going. Maybe they're honest about it. Maybe they're willing to step forward." And I thought: "This is an opportunity." And so I handed it to your team. That's how I offered your team. Can this be a moment when the left patriot, together with all the other teams, can advance that step? What was the answer? Silence. Nothing, nothing. Nothing, no answer. I do not know that now, as you have said a long time ago, you have only refused and kept silent. I don't know what that silence means. There's been a chance, and this opportunity has been generously offered, and has been answered in silence. We're still here for now. There's time, the vote hasn't been made. And I don't know what turns you off in the middle-class correction we introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u104	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Rodriguez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u105	Yeah. Mr Gil and Mr Andueza, it is not a question of you condemning all forms of violence, all forms of terrorism, because that does not solve anything at all. The political class is about to solve the problems. What is at stake is that you assume your responsibility for the violence and suffering we have talked about. Because what doubt is there that they have it, what doubt is there that they also have it. Therefore, it is not a question of condemning, but rather of assuming the responsibility of everyone, who is already doing the independence of the left, of assuming that responsibility, but above all, but above all of actively committing himself to that principle to which I referred earlier and which must govern this new cycle, this new time in our country, which is nothing other than the active commitment to all rights for all people. I have said this, from the right to life, what doubt is there, of course, to the right to self-determination of this people. Because it is not obvious, it cannot be overlooked that, in the end, we are talking about an unresolved political conflict which can only be democratically answered and resolved by giving the Basque people the voice and the word. Qué doubt cabe de que... de que, Iturat used to say. I, Mr. Iturate... No. Uncle, I'm sorry. Mr. Don Calogero said that I had deliberately forgotten the violence and violence of both of them. No. How shall I forget it, or shall I forget the violence of it? It is certain that he has made use of violence. How can we deny that? And cause suffering. We've said it. We're approved. It is also a matter of some concern whether we or others may have for this violence. It is an affair, here, that the only one who has used violence has not been. Even the State, that state which is supported by your political powers, has exercised violence. Here the differences are three, and not of any kind. and as long as it has abolished its violence for ever, the state continues to employ violence. Number two, you know, in time... And I have said again, that the same patriotism on the left, and the recent independence of the left, which, in some measure, has been admitted, may or may have been concerned in violence and suffering by it, and in general the Spanish State remains unconsuming and accepting it. It was hirugarren ezberdintasun bat. Hirugarren ezberdintas un bat. I would say that the fundamental and decisive difference in this matter. While ETA militants and those who have not been ETA militants have had to remain in prison for long years, so in my case absolutely unfair and illegal, have paid, or have paid, let us say, for our responsibilities, how much have those responsible for State violence paid? When did the Francoist genocidals pay? How much have the criminals of the Dirty War paid? How much have those responsible for the thousands and thousands of cases of torture paid? Zero. Zero. And by the way, and I understand that this speaks very well of the victims of that State violence, no one is asking, no one wants those responsible to have to go to jail. It's not about that. But if we talk about truth, justice and reparation, which is what you did, Mr Andueza, we cannot overlook that all those people, who are not a few as Mr Gil suggested – we are talking about about about 400 murdered by the state and thousands and thousands of tortured people –, what doubt there is that these people have the right to truth, justice and reparation, to the same extent and in the same way as the victims of ETA. But to continue to refuse to assume that responsibility, to do what seems to be going to do now his party in Madrid, which is to extend the lifting of official secrets nothing more and nothing less than 50 years, that goes in the opposite direction, diametrically opposite, to that search for justice, truth and reparation for all the victims. Finally, I said in my first intervention. We're still involved in the road that started ten years ago, and with that expression that was hardly two weeks ago. We'll continue, and we'll try to do everything that's in our power... [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]] ... and with that expression barely two weeks ago. We'll continue, and we'll try to do everything that's in our power to relieve the pain and suffering of our victims. The question is: Are you ready to do the same? Do you imagine, do you imagine, what contribution this people would make to those thousand victims of the violence of the state I spoke of, in your mouth, on the 18th of October, to hear a statement such as the independence of the left had read? Think for a moment, and really, please, think about it. Because this society would thank you for this people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u106	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Quiet, please. The discussion is over and we'll vote for the original text of the proposition as the popular-Ciudados team. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 74; the supporters are 7; the opponents are 67; abstainments, 0; white, 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u107	So, not allowed original text. Next, we'll vote together with Podemos-Nozzurski, Eukal Sociists and Eucabertians. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 74; the votes given, 74; the supporters of 53; the opposites 21; abstations, 0; white; 0.1,0,0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-11-11.u108	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at two and thirteen o'clock in the afternoon.
