ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I may inform you that the third point on the subject list has been withdrawn and that 33 lords and ladies have already adopted the vote. First point in theme list: "Pull together the bill of law-proposing the parlamental team around the environmental tax on the great stalls. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the documentation where you're being divided, and just without reading, we'll begin the discussion directly. Since it's the side shift and the counter shift, who's willing to participate in the side shift? Side shift? Just you guys, okay. Well, Mr. Casanova, your word is to introduce and defend action. "Mr. Casanova alonsso: Thank you, and good morning to all. "Green taxation. It is right to encourage the green transition with new taxes. The environment cannot be protected without costs, and there will be no ecological transition, without green taxation that encourages it. Using green taxation to reorient the economy and achieve environmental objectives is recommended by major international agencies. Green taxation should not be understood as a mere instrument of collection; it is a tax reordering aimed at certain environmental achievements. Green is one of the most important tax areas in Europe." It's not my words, not even the EH Collectors. Or Greenpeac or the solar organization. There's the words of an El País editorial in the newspaper. This, in itself, means nothing, but I mean the fact that the question is a wager for the green prosecutors and the green prosecutors, that it is no longer a call made from the margins, but a stream that is quite a Mamnstream stream. Beste sentidu... norabide berean, hitz ofizialago batzuk, Paolo Gentiloni Europako Ekonomiako komisarioarenak: "Protection of the environment and mitigation of climate change are at the heart of our recovery strategy. In this context, a review of our tax policies at national, European and global level can help us emerge from this crisis stronger than before. That's where green taxation can play a key role." But what are environmental taxes? What's the Green Attorneyhood? De acerdo al marco statusístico, desarollado conjuntamente por diversos internacioles, los impules ambientiales son caulis base cua impponiboste consiste una un un unadad física o simi iglar degún material que tie impostotore com testdo y specico sobrio sobatis sobentemit. In our case, and with the law which we bring here today, what we want to tax is the meters of the surface of the trading zones, and even the subways of the parking lot, because we believe that it is measured by them by means of which the induction of the induction which these areas produce is precisely when we push them into an unsisting motion. The benefits of environmental taxes are widely recognized in literature, academia, and also in political decision-making centres. Environmental taxation is defined as a key tool for moving towards a decarbonized economy that promotes sustainable development. And among the many benefits of this type of taxation, I will point out one, because it will be important in the argument I am going to use today, and it is that of the internalization of negative externalities. In other words, those agents who carry out a... contaminate or cause damage to the environment will have to pay for that pollution; the "polluter pays" principle. And we believe that EH Collect has been infected by great commerce, and have forced it to be polluted, because their example is founded on an incommodity. If the Green Attorneyship is Volobolo, and we have here some elements that produce steternities, we believe that there is a time for the union of these two elements, and applying the Green Attorneyhood to the great places of commerce. That's how we improve the fundraiser. Thus we should apply the principle of "he who shows up" to those who pay. And yet there must have been a distraction when we developed some contagious practices. When we plan this tax, or accept this tax, we must answer three questions. For the first time: is it possible to apply an environmental tax to the trading stations? The second is: it is necessary, is it proper? And the third is: Shall we? Hasiko naiz lehenengo gallederatik. And it is true that the first question we have to answer is whether such a law can be established. Wouldn't the logical order of reasoning be that? First, it would be a question of whether we want to do so, whether it is appropriate to do so, and then whether it is legally possible to do so. But in this case, and knowing that whenever the powerful are going to be pocketed any initiative will end up in the courts, we believe that it is necessary to pass the first test, the proof of the legal viability of this type of regulation; because, if not, obviously, if we knew that it did not have a course and that we were going to fall into the courts, we would not start this course. Well, can such a tax be established? Yes, you can. In fact, it is already established in several places. And, in fact, that tax has already passed the court filter. Catalonia, Asturias, Aragon and Navarra are taxed, with autonomous taxes, to large commercial establishments, from an environmental perspective. And as was foreseeable, this type of taxation has led to an intense judicial process, which has covered practically the entire organizational structure or judicial hierarchy that can affect us, from the higher autonomous courts of justice, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court and, finally, the Court of Justice of the European Union. Those companies, which were essentially enemies of the environmental taxation of large commercial centres, generally companies in that area, argued that this type of tax constituted covert State aid for smaller establishments, that it was not autonomous competition to establish a tax of this nature which limited free competition, even entailed discrimination in economic activity. But all these questions are answered in court. There's an answer and a denial in the courts. There are many judgments of the highest tribunals of the region, and I will not focus on it, but I will mention the higher tribunals... that is to say, the judgments, because they hold us to be so, and because they make both law and law. The Constitutional Court, in two judgements, in 2012 and 2014, rejects all the above arguments. It rejects such a tax as discriminatory. And in a doctrine that we could perhaps playfully call "size matters" he says that it is precisely the grouping of traders in large establishments that can generate negative externalities on the territory, the environment and the plot of urban trade. It is therefore not discriminatory to impose specific taxes on the basis of the size of the establishments. In 2014, in another judgment, it goes much further, and completely disassembles all the arguments made by employers in the sector of large commercial establishments to attack the legality of these taxes. In 2014, the Constitutional Court ruled that this type of tax does not violate article 157.3 of the Constitution, on autonomous jurisdiction in the implementation of this tax, or article 14, on equal treatment before the law, or article 31.1, which speaks of tax justice. The Supreme Court, the other highest court in the Spanish State, has handed down several judgements. One of the most relevant in June 2019, in which, in a coup, he dismisses five appeals filed by El Corte Inglés against the Asturian regulations governing this tax. And he does it so categorically that he forces El Corte Inglés to pay the costs. Moreover, it does so because, at the time, the Supreme Court already had a definitive instrument to clarify these types of issues, as was the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 26 April 2018. The Court of Justice of the European Union, as it stated, the maximum body when it comes to clarifying the European standard of the rules of other States, of other lower grades, determines, at that date, that environmental taxes on commercial establishments do not infringe neither the freedom of establishment of trade nor constitute State aid. And, categorically, its resolution No. 52 says that "the tax seeks to correct and compensate the territorial and environmental impact of the activities of these establishments, given the flow of traffic that they cause". In recital 53 of the judgment, it again states that "the environmental impact of commercial establishments depends on their size (...), and that, to a greater extent, greater negative effects on the environment". Once this judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union is known, we could say that of Rome, which is the final case. It already seems that, in the legal sphere, the debate does not exist. And the answer is: can such a tax be established? Yes, an environmental tax on large commercial establishments can be established. Segoda custión: se debe. We're talking about the Green Attorneyship. If then the same word has two elements: On the other hand, the ecological point of view. Let us first consider the second: "Aspectos culgicos." Article number two of the law which Euskal Herria Bildu submits today for the consideration of this House states: "This tax imposes the special economic capacity of certain commercial establishments, as a result of their establishment as large areas, as they have negative effects on the planning of the territory, the environment and the infrastructures, without assuming their cost". In other words, we are looking for what constitutes a fundamental principle of environmental taxation, internalising externalisation, that is, that damage to the environment also entails a cost to the one who generates it. Will these realities be generated by large commercial equipment? In fact, in this House, and in view of the fact that a few years ago, a law on the territorial planning of large commercial establishments was unanimously adopted, which was based precisely on the premise that creating externalities, both at the level of pollution and on the organization of the territory, should not be a great job to demonstrate to those who have already passed laws containing this premise. But, well, in a way of recapitulation, let us say that this law of large commercial establishments is precisely based on the premise of these externalities. Moreover, it complies with European legislation, in order to apply restrictions whenever there are compelling reasons of general interest. And the general interest considered in this law is precisely the protection of the environment. And specifically, and among other reasons, Article 5.6 of this law, to which I refer, mentions that the law seeks to stimulate sustainable mobility, for which it proposes that shopping malls should not be installed on the periphery; er, shopping malls installed on the periphery, according to the unanimous reflection of this House, cause unsustainable mobility. Often, when we all agree about a subject, I have now alluded to the fact that this law was tested with one mouth, it seems enough that the formula of the operation is sufficient, and that what is said should not be proved too much because no one says the contrary. But from time to time, to remember what we have accepted and to deep down is good. And I will give some facts, which, without being too severe, prove exactly what has been said hitherto, namely, that these tracts of commerce produce contagion, and excite an indissolubility of motion. According to studies by the consultants Ikertalde and Ekolur, based on the mobility studies of the Basque Autonomous Community, in particular in 2016, 25% of the trips made to make purchases are made by car. That means, and here it appears reflected in this graph [Orri bat erakutsi du], 6% of the total volume of all car trips that are made in the community are destined to make purchases. And, therefore, most of them are destined for shopping malls. 6% of all journeys by car are made to go to shopping malls, which already gives us a measure of the size of the problem. The large peripheral commercial equipment in our community generates, annually, 36 million journeys by car. Or what is the same, an average of approximately 150,000 car trips per day; 150,000 car trips per day to shop in commercial establishments. This type of mobility – making purchases by private vehicle, when those purchases can be made in another sustainable way in the centers of the cities – clashes with the principles and laws currently in force. With what? With virtually all those referring to spatial planning and the environment. And we could mention, without going into depth, the Law of Soil and Urbanism of the Basque Country, which speaks of promoting sustainable mobility; the General Law of Environmental Protection of the Basque Country, which also speaks of the sustainability of the urban environment; the Basque Environmental Strategy for Sustainable Development, which speaks of an integrated and sustainable mobility model; the Energy Sustainability Law of the Basque Autonomous Community, which promotes more rational and sustainable mobility; the Basque Climate Change Strategy, which speaks of the efficiency and resilience of the territory, and therefore not of these mobility models. And we could follow, almost indefinitely: the road map of the diffuse sectors for the elimination of greenhouse gases, a state regulation; we could talk about the Climate Change Act, the European Green Pact, the Paris Agreement, etc., etc. Por tant, yo creo que que que que que que que que que que que que que que que que quede el tipa de vista cocolgico, los grandes establemientos comerciales, a través de la provinción de movilide indida de muay altadad, en están en en una modavid socid. Por tant, provocan una grave externalidambiental, no solo en cuanto a la congestión del tyranno y de los Gases de efecto invernandero. I remember when I was young, talking about contagion, it wasn't about climate change, it was spoken directly of physical contagion, smoke, and the diseases that other particles created in people. And it is true, now that these other considerations seem to have been neglected by the climatical change. But the contagion remains there, and contagion produces millions of dead bodies in the world, and the contagion produced by cars produces millions of dead bodies every year. We have seen that, from an environmental point of view, it is appropriate to apply the rules or the perspective of green taxation to large shopping centres. Let's look at it from a fiscal point of view. There are 700,000 square meters of large commercial peripheral equipment in the Basque Autonomous Community; 50% of them in the Great Bilbao, and a third in the Left Margin. Next to this, there are 42,000 parking spaces. We could say that, in view of this volume, that the whole population of the Basque Autonomous Community would physically fit within its shopping centres if we were to squeeze a little bit, a little bit! We are therefore talking about an important reality also in its physical dimension, in its extension. The law we propose is that which proposes in article 7. 15 euros per square meter. And also, taxing the parking lots directly, because the parking lots indicate the dimensions of the radiation that these centers invade. These facts, made and applied by our calculations, are at least consequences, that 17 million would be acquired by the application of this tax. Is it a lot? Is it low? Well, it's true that there's money, there's plenty of money to carry along with it, for instance, about half the budget of commerce, of Tourism, and of the Consultants; but it's not in comparison of money with the quantity of money that moves in those parts of commerce. Esango genuke, kasu honetan, I mentioned in another previous debate also about taxes and taxes, that of Emperor Vespasian, when he received the money of the tax he had imposed on latrines, and took it to his nose and said no olet, no smell. It seems that money is money, and all we should consider is whether, with this collection, we would cause a negative economic effect that would decompensate the positive effect of receiving this money in the public coffers. We see clearly that there are reasons in the environment, and that there are also financial reasons for this tax. So, the last question is, do we want to set it up? And that's where we're going to check out the reasons that I'm talking about until now about if you don't accept this tax. He's tied up with the last thing I've said, that is, if we could get the money, what a powerful reason they might not apply this tax. We have seen that this tax can be applied. We have seen that, from an environmental and fiscal point of view, this tax should be applied. But this tax is not going to apply, because a majority in this Parliament is going to refuse to even take this law into consideration. And he does, basically, and for reasons... The reasons that we know so far are those contained in the opinion of the Basque Government, to issue an unfavourable criterion for the admission of this law. What do you think you're talking about? In short, they said in their last paragraph: "If, in short, the Eulegian of the Eugrants in general imposes at this moment a tribute of circumlocution over the great tracts of commerce, it would be a contradiction with the agreement of the institutions, with the model of euscals, co-ordination, and co-workers. And, further, the dysfunction might at this moment be produced in the policy of protecting commerce, for the pandemic has now directly affected this sector." We'll start with the end, "the pandemic has affected the sector." What sector? Trade? Yes, the pandemic has affected trade. As a short-term reason for the pandemic, there would be no obstacle to any transitional provision, if there are short-term reasons, which would bring it into force once the effects of the pandemic had been overcome. If the problem is the pandemic, when the pandemic passes, we could resume the law, and we could begin its processing with a suspension clause, to put it into effect when the pandemic has passed. In fact, in Nafarroa, during..., in April 2020, the share of this tax was reduced, which is in force there in Nafarroa, precisely in the fear that it could generate dysfunctions in the functioning of shopping centers by the pandemic. That is, we could extend the entry into force or we could suspend it. We could do it. If the problem is the pandemic, the pandemic can – let's say – be eluded by delaying entry into force. But the pandemic is no reason; the pandemic is an excuse. And, in addition, the pandemic has not affected big commercial equipment so hard. There is much talk of the effect on hospitality; there is much talk of the effect on trade. We have, carefully following the debate, the adviser, who knows all this perfectly. But, in reality, the impact has been uneven, and the impact has not been equal in small trade or large trade. In fact, with the data we have available, according to Eustat, the pandemic has not severely affected large commercial equipment. In fact, in the first quarter of 2021, sales increased by 3,4 % over the same period of the previous year, and employment increased by 0,4 %. That is, in the first quarter they are growing in employment and sales. It is true that there is a comparison with a part of last year, in which there was a low, because it touched us the hardest of the pandemic. But if we look at the year 2020 as a whole, the year 2020 as a whole!, according to Eustat data for large areas and food chains, 2% of sales grew. That is, the year of the pandemic has not been a year of collapse for large commercial equipment. It has been an unequal year, which has not affected all subsectors, within large commercial equipment, alike. That it has been good for food, but it has also been good for many of those called to pay this tax, such as the Leroy Merlin, the Ikeas, the MediaMarkt. It may not have been so good for the Zaras and the company, but we do not understand that it is at present a sector, precisely, economically weak, that represents that business model. The pandemic is therefore not a reason, because the entry into force could be extended, nor has it affected large commercial equipment in such a harsh way. There is another statement from the Basque Government's opinion which I also find extremely worrying; I would say that it is even unacceptable. And it is the fallacy of physical commerce, that is, it speaks of small businesses and large commercial equipment as a unit, a physical trade threatened by online commerce. But he's mixing barbecues with merinas. It is mixing realities that are not only different, but are antagonistic in their conception and situation. "Mingercy says: "In this case, because of the appearance of COVID-19, and the great negative influence which it has exercised in the commercial profession, it is not proper that the recovery of a sector, which is already very much damaged, may be violated." We said it wasn't true. And the proof remains that the data is not seriously wounded by the large tracts of commerce. Then it's a piece of data that's in his mind: "Euskadin was at the end of 2020 years, 33,000 merchants' settlements, when they were 500,000 in 2008." I accept that. That's true. Commercial disaster is data. Maybe it's just when you've been giving yourself these facts and his management, because they really are data. But you can't say that you're taking this in any way... or that this equally leads them to great commerce and small commerce. This is the graphic of the great trade for the last few years. From 2015 to 2021, a straight line, straight up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, And considering that it begins in 2015, there were some changes in the habits of the customers. But yet, in the last few years, there's been a constant promotion in the big business crew sector. Where was the catastrophe? Where was the catastrophe? This is a pay chart upstairs, a V. After the crisis in 2008, many jobs have been created, but in total, they have arrived at the crisis before the crisis. Where has there been a constant decline? Autonomous line. That is to say, a small commerce continually falling. The great trade concludes, and makes this V. Beraz, merkataritza handia eta txikia batasun batala joratzea, gure ustez, ez da soilik onartezina, baizik eta iraingarria da. Iraingarria gives sartzea to Mr.Amancio Ortega and the corner trader in the same bag, as if their economic situation and trade developments had been the same in recent years. 17 million taxes is a drop of water in the sea from sales and profits generated by the companies that run the big malls. And, by the way, which, in turn, are owned by investment multinationals, investment funds, socimis and international speculators, the centers themselves in their entirety. And, to finish, we have to say that he talks about pandemy. We have seen that pandemy is temporary and that the law can be activated later. It says that it has damaged the great tracts of commerce. And we saw it wasn't true. He claims that during the last few years there has been a great decline in the trade, and we have shown that only this decline has occurred between the small ones, and not for the great ones. Baina, Jaurlaritzak ematen digu laugarren Argudio bat. This fourth argument could be called "the Tarzan doctrine." You know Tarzan said, "I, Tarzan; you, Jane." Here the Basque government says, "I'm smart; you're dumb." I mean, I say things, I don't have to prove them, and because I say them, they're like that, and you have to say amen. Point. It is a way of reasoning dogmatic, dogmatic or axiomatic, or what is intended; axiomas, in fact, are dogmas, revealed truths that are not proven. The government in its opinion accepts the ability to create Parliament's taxes and, at least, we are not going to discuss that. He did not deny the largest, but said that they must be agreed, in the Tax Coordination Body and with the other administrations, which was still true, in the sense that such consensus and agreement must be sought. But that does not mean that the capacity of this Parliament to take the initiative and put into effect laws within the framework of its competence, also in the area of its fiscal powers which exist and are recognised by our system, is limited. I do not know whether Mr Rementeria, when he lowered corporate taxes to companies in the hardest part of the COVID crisis, or when he made tax changes to attract brokers to Bilbo, came to this Parliament to ask for accounts or not; he did what he thought was right and right. I believe that this Parliament can have more style, elegance and also share reflection with other institutions, both municipal and outside, with powers in the fiscal field, but that does not mean that it does not have the capacity to take the initiative. And then the Basque Government gives us one last explanation. It says: "While it is true that the Basque Autonomous Community can regulate its own taxes through the Basque Parliament by creating autonomous taxes, the proposed law presents conceptual inaccuracies in the articulated, and both the explanatory statement and the articulated itself contain an incorrect approach to the tax system." This is a little what the Tarzan doctrine used to say, and what you're talking about... In other words, it contains errors, "an incorrect approach", "conceptual inaccuracies". And what are they? And how do we argue if you don't tell me what you're trying to argue? Because you say it, don't you? He leaves us here in this kind of cliffhanger: they have inaccuracies and things that are wrong. Which ones? It will continue in the next chapter. Will we have to ask the lawyers of the Parliament of Aragon or the consultants who are responsible for making the laws enacted by this government? Who do we ask to know what the inaccuracies are? The Government does not argue in the opinion, and the parties supporting the Government today refuse to debate because they refer to the explanation of vote. Therefore, it is not only that admission to this law is blocked; it is that the debate is denied, the debate is denied! That's why I was saying this is a little Tarzan's thing: we're the smart ones, the other fools, and point. You have already reached a level of superiority and self-proclaimed pride, which you refuse not only to accept the proposals, but even to debate them by presenting arguments. But we know that the law will have problems and mistakes. We're not going to sit on that ivory tower. What we bring is, his name says, a legal proposition. We believe that we have proved, or at least we have attempted to show that this law is adequate, that it is connected with the quality of environmental physical quality, that the subject is applicable to the production of such strymities, because it brings economic benefits... We have also shown that these sectors have not at present so serious a problem of economics as to make the evidence here injurious or dangerous. And we know that there may be a dispute about the figures we probably give, and about the proposals, and that there may be even a mistake. That must be accepted as a starting-point. But I'm not trying to tell you what those mistakes are, those potential flaws. We believe that we are based on the hands which the State of Guernica offers us to carry this tribute, because it is regarded there as the origin of autonomical taxes. That's where the procedure is established. And we believe that without breaching the rights of historical lands, this will be possible. I repeat statements by Mr Gentiloni, the Commissioner for Economic Affairs of the European Union, not in the framework of the previous conference, which I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, but in response to a question raised in the European Parliament. In this question on green taxation, he said that "a well-designed tax system plays an important role in supporting the green transition. Environmental taxes help to provide the right signals and prices, and the right incentives encourage less polluting consumption." And it says, literally, that "the principle of the polluter pays is enshrined in the Treaties of the European Union, specifically in Article 191.2". As I thought it was a somewhat colloquial principle that "the polluter pays", almost as much as among amiguetes, I went to look at the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and, indeed, it is literally said that "the polluter pays". And, therefore, I believe that those engaged in commercial activity on the periphery which obliges their users to use the private car, which causes 36 million displacements, with the resulting emissions of greenhouse gases and also with the consequent damage to people's health, generate an externality which must be assessed by the exercise of green taxation, environmental taxation. That is why we present a law, which we believe is well structured, which is based on laws already in force, in which we would have liked to do something differently, but which, knowing that this could have the danger of ending up in the courts if we take a false step, has been based on the laws of the communities where it is already in force, where it is in force and approved by the courts. And we didn't do it because he caught our bull last minute like others, and see where we got a law from, and we're gonna see Aragon what he's got. No, no. We have done so precisely because an armored law and a law that has already passed the cedation of the courts is a law that gives us solidity and legal certainty. The law therefore has a solid and legally-armored conceptual framework, which is likely to improve, of course, the details of the legislative process, but which is an appropriate starting point. A simple law, structured into five chapters, 18 articles and three final provisions. Precisely, because it is necessary the area that has to be regulated and that respects the role of the deputies and other institutions, which collects several articles and a final disposition to be harmonious with the tax system and the institutional architecture of this country...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u1	Please finish... Bai, banoa... It is also incardinated with another initiative on the taxation of electronic commerce, parallel to this, which we will discuss in committee. Amaituko had to. Green taxation plays a growing role. Shopping centres are liable to be assessed by means of green taxation. The introduction of an environmental tax complies with state and European legislation and is within the competition framework. But you, gentlemen of the government and parties that support it, don't even want to discuss it... On fiscal issues they are to the right of the newspaper El País and the European Commission. They are on the right of Biden, when he asks for tax increases to businesses and increases in public stimulus. They are on the right of the OECD, when it talks about green taxes, taxes on capital and wealth, and not passing the bill of the crisis on to the workers.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u2	Finish...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u3	To the right of the IMF, Merkel and Macron. They put on the green costume, but, when it comes to the truth, they look at the little bit of submission to big companies and big entrepreneurs. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u4	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Kontrako txandan, aurkako txandan, norbaitek part hartu behar du? Explanation of vote? ( Islam ). The discussion is over and we'll vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. You can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 39; 72; the supporters 25; the opponents 47; the abstations are 0; white, 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u5	So the bill was ignored. We shall next proceed to the greater part of the smaller. Miss, Mrs Martínnez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u6	(...) I was very pleased to hear Mr Casanova say that the debate in this House is being denied. It's a curious phrase coming from them. They, to complex problems, simple solutions. That is the summary of this proposal by Bildu, which does not, in fact, have either feet or head. We pray that you will never come to power; you would not leave stone upon stone. Really, it's nonsense that doesn't help our production system at all. It's just destructive. If we want to support small and medium-sized trade, we must enhance its virtues. But we cannot try to sink, by means of a tax war, into commercial centres in general. The tree, gentlemen of Bildu, does not allow you to see the forest. That's why they're useless, impossible to apply... And, of course, if we did, we'd expect ruin and more ruin. In Vox, we're friends with the trade. You are, without a doubt, your enemy, both of trade and freedom.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u7	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Gordillo, representative of the PP-Ciudados.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government. He proposed that the EH Bildu parliamentary group should impose an environmental tax on large commercial establishments. The text had already been presented in January 2020, and has now been recovered for consideration by this House. Well, the main argument, if I have heard correctly, above all, is part of the basis that large commercial establishments pollute a lot; apart from that it seems that they are rich and powerful, pollute a lot, especially because people have to go by car. Of course, assuming that argument, any establishment, be it a university, be it a work center, etc., which is in the extraradio or to which people have to go by public transport or by car, should also be taxed by the same principle. With which, man, I think this is part of a base, I think, wrong, because not every tax that qualifies itself as green is going to be a green tax. A green tax will, according to the European Commission's view, encourage new behaviour. To encourage new behaviors, in this sense, more ecological, according to the proposer, man, there would perhaps be other mechanisms. We are going to vote, we have voted, against the consideration, for three types of reasons: legal, economic and opportunity. First, for legal reasons. The Government's view, by the way, quite well drafted, already speaks of inaccuracies, which are true. There is a confusion between what is the taxable basis, the fact; there is also a small confusion about what is the object of the tax. And what about the incorrect approach of the tax model, man, I think here too, because in the case of the Basque Country, where we have taxes that are managed by the outside parliaments, others that are managed or that, rather, that in this case would be created by the Autonomous Community, etc., we must maintain a certain coordination, above all, of the overall tax pressure and, moreover, also, if possible, with the general tax pressure. So, yes, I do believe that taking a tax out of these, without having carried out previous studies, indeed, I believe that it is part of an understanding, which is not entirely the correct one, of what the Basque tax model is. Moreover, it overlaps with other taxes; it overlaps with other taxes, because, of course... I read Article 1.2 of the proposal. It is said that "this tax imposes the special economic capacity of certain establishments, as it has a negative impact on land management, the environment and infrastructure, without assuming their cost". Man, you're already paying VAT for some things, the IAE, corporate tax, the IRPF, the IBI and some other, so, man, already a cost is being assumed, socially, by these companies. Secondly, for economic reasons. When taxes go up, who ends up paying them? When you raise a tax, under these conditions, who ends up paying it? The end consumer ends up paying for it. The cost is ultimately passed on to the final consumer. Therefore, this tax is going to harm the final consumer, because what it is going to do is increase the final price that consumers have to pay for basic services. By the way, the large areas will be services and will be, above all, commodities, with which there will be an increase, an increase in VAT, by the way, which is, moreover, the most regressive tax there is, and which, by the way, you have criticized quite a bit in this House. Therefore, I believe that this would not be sustained here either. And finally, for reasons of opportunity. In large areas, many self-employed people work. They are the self-sufficient, powerful, rich, who must be taxed, for I believe they must not; I believe that what must be done is to allow them to work, and to encourage them to work above all. It is the worst time, moreover, to raise a tax increase at this time in which there is also an opportunity to start the path of recovery. In addition, there are already many taxes being paid on large areas; I insist that VAT is paid, the IAE, corporate tax, the IRPF, the IBI are also paid, where appropriate. That is to say, by reading the proposal, what it seems that it seeks is practically to sanction the large areas; that is to say, they must be punished because they are not taking on the cost of their economic activity, right? Man, it also forgets that large areas are creators of employment and also dynamizers of the economy. Finally, for these and some other reasons, which I am not going to bore your ladies and gentlemen, our group has voted against the consideration. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u9	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u10	Bai, well, our group voted in favour of the consideration. To say that... well, and not to enter into debate, but rather to sanction large areas, our group believes that it is to make them responsible for the environmental impact of their activity. In any case, we do believe that taking into account the proposal for a law what would allow would be a reflection on the commercial model and also on the environmental impacts that it entails, with regard primarily to the private vehicle and access... and the need for large infrastructures to access them. It is true that this bill is certainly not a panacea, nor will it solve what has to do with the commercial model that has been established in our country over decades, nor will it be a panacea in relation to the use of the private vehicle. In any case, we do believe that, with a view to promoting the debate on such relevant issues, denying consideration is absurd, unless it is absolutely contrary to what has to do with reflections of such a relevant character. We do believe that, as far as drafting is concerned, and therefore we would like to be able to make amendments to the proposal for a law..., we do believe that there are issues that we would change, such as the tax rate, that we believe that, well, as has been stated in the text, it would probably not alter the behaviour, as well as certain doubts about the wording, as it was said, of the taxable basis, and we also believe that it is necessary, when proposing such issues, to reflect, but, when we enter the debate, that in the light of the fact that we are not going to be able to do so, to analyse the degree of elasticity of the proposal for a law and its application. Anyway, I mean, it's a shame I didn't... that we will not be able to delve into this issue, in its process, in the light of the meaning of the vote. In any case, we will continue to work on this line and seek to alter the commercial and consumer model in this country, because it is also the only way to alter environmental paradigms.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u11	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u12	Thank you, President, counselors, counselor, good morning. In the exercise of our right recognized in the Rules of Procedure of this House, with regard to proposals for legislation, the Basque Socialists intervene in this round of explanations of vote, like the rest of the parliamentary groups, with the exception of the proposing group of the initiative. And the Basque Socialists have voted against this initiative, for the following reasons: firstly, because we share the unfavorable view of the Basque Government, when it states that the widespread establishment by Parliament of an environmental tax on large commercial establishments at this time would not only be contradictory to a Basque tax model based on agreement, coordination and interinstitutional cooperation, but could also, at this time, lead to dysfunctions in trade protection policy, a sector which is currently directly affected by the pandemic. Secondly, this is based on both the sales indices of 2020 and the employment indices in the commercial sector in what we have been doing for the year. The Basque Socialists share with various analysts that the tax of large commercial establishments can be an appropriate instrument to avoid, or at least minimize, the impact that certain commercial establishments have on the territory and the environment, and in line with the proper spatial management of large commercial establishments. And the socialists are in favour of the compact city model and the proliferation of commercial formats located outside the framework... , sorry!, and that the proliferation of commercial formats located outside the urban frame constitutes a clear attack against this compact city model linked to so-called sustainable urbanism, which is not only proclaimed in Spanish soil legislation, but also, from a European perspective, is made a commitment to this urban typology, in close union with the protection of the urban environment. The European Union proposes a clear link between a compact city model and the protection of the environment, and we therefore consider it appropriate to frame this tax in the future green taxation of Euskadi, in a manner similar to the approach taken by the Community of Aragon, within the framework of autonomous legislation, as does this community, which, through a consolidated text, regulates environmental taxes. In addition to promoting green taxation in Euskadi's environmental legislation, we also believe that the intervention of the Tax Coordination Body is necessary, prior to the elaboration and implementation of this tax, trying to seek consensus and interinstitutional agreement. The pandemic and its negative impact on the commercial sector discourage the establishment of a measure that could adversely affect the recovery of a sector with pre-pandemic structural problems, and which has now been aggravated, albeit not in all sub-sectors alike, by other problems, as far as commercial taxation is concerned, which have a much more global perspective, which require a transnational approach. Because, as I said myself in the 2019 debate, the great adversary of trade is outside our borders. And today we have some legal doubts that the Basque Socialists had at the time in 2019, we understand that the imposition on large commercial establishments must be implemented, in Euskadi, in another economic situation more favourable to the economic activation of this sector, within the framework of the Basque green taxation and in the mechanisms of inter-institutional coordination and collaboration, which are our own in tax matters. We need a well-designed system, and that is where the Basque Socialists are. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Mrs. Berrojalbuz, Eubertarian patriot, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chiefs, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. From the Basque Nationalist Party, we have always defended the importance of the tax system, which is transcendental in order to sustain a good public service system and our welfare state. And this tax system must, of course, adapt to the new realities, such as the energy-ecological transformation and therefore including elements of environmental taxation. This is precisely one of the commitments contained in the Government Programme. Therefore, green taxation, yes, but not with measures such as that proposed by EH Bildu today in this debate, called green, and not precisely with the concept of green that Gentiloni has. Hence our vote against. No, for the temporary moment. The above-mentioned tax review should not enter into force this year, because, given the current situation, a positive increase in general, and with a tax figure like the one proposed to us, would slow down the expected growth, even more so at this time of debate in international forums. We have already listened to Biden, the OECD, even the European Commission itself, now establishing debates in all these international forums. But it is not only our opinion, but it is also a conclusion shared by the OECD in its last report. It is not as reliable a source as El País, but it is said by the OECD in its last report of 27 May last week, which states that "any tax review must be carried out only when the economic recovery is firmly directed." Second. No, because it is also the view shared by the Committee of Experts in its report for the reform of the 2014 tax system, namely proposal No. 97, which proposes to eliminate these autonomous taxes on large establishments. And it is not only a matter of temporality, which Mr Casanova already commented on, of the inaccuracies contained in the article or of the opinions of experts and international bodies, which are obviously relevant, but, and there the third reason for the "no", is because this tax is far from achieving the apparently pursued objective. It is clear that these taxes must seek other objectives, not financial sufficiency, but this tax on large commercial establishments, in particular, does? Does it help to strengthen the competitiveness of the commercial sector? Does it help to minimize the environmental impact? Is it not favouring urban trade, increasing the cost structure of large commercial establishments, with protectionism in mind, and thus distorting the computer and modifying purpose of conduct of this type of tax? Are not other types of measures that can be taken by the competent bodies, for example, in the substantive field, more efficient? The easiest thing is to create a tax. But does this, in particular, fulfil any of the objectives it seeks? Would it not be more logical, for example, for positive behaviour to be encouraged, rather than for these large operators to look for locations closer to the city centre? And what happens to those businesses that require, by the type of products they sell, larger spaces, such as, for example, sales of vehicles, or that of furniture and household? Would it mean that the Aiaraldea or Enkarterri furniture sector would also have to bear this additional cost? Yeah. I have the feeling that it is rather a particularly collective figure, with the environmental flag; a "well-being". The impact that a large commercial establishment can have on the environment, and on land management policies, is not corrected by a tax like the one presented. Our group understands that this tax would not generate positive action or change the action of large establishments for the environment. Because, for example, in the last sustainability report published by ANGED, which is the National Association of Large Distribution Enterprises, the associated companies already take on environmental commitments, such as emission reduction, by increasing, for example, the studies of their carbon footprint, through the purchase of electricity of renewable origin, the installation of charging points for electric vehicles, or the integration of fleets of transport vehicles with an environmental badge. The introduction of this tax will therefore not change the behaviour of economic operators towards more sustainable practices, when, in addition, the proposed law that we are debating today does not even provide for reductions or modifications to make such more sustainable investments. We therefore believe that, at this time, we must promote other measures in the substantive field. It was already done in 2019 in this Parliament, with the unanimous adoption of the Law on Territorial Planning of Large Commercial Establishments, which defines the guidelines for its implementation. And we also see them in the work of the Department of Economic Development, for example, with the elaboration of the Fifth Environmental Framework Programme, which will set the priorities of the Basque Government in the field of the environment and which will have, as a backbone, the European Green Pact, whose spirit has moved into the Basque context, under the name of Basque Green Deal. And Euskadi, as you know, is a pioneering society in its commitment to sustainable development, respect for the environment and the strategy against climate change. And this parliamentary group and the Basque Government are working on the conviction that energy-ecological transformation is also an opportunity for our future. And that's the way we'll work. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Second point on the subject list: "The other proposition of Podemos-Nodemus, by the law of the parliamentary faction, was to encourage public policies in the pursuit of poverty. Discipline and final resolution. It's the caller's turn. Together, Mrs. González, the representative of the Podemos, is yours to present and defend the enterprise.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u16	Thank you, ma'am, and good morning to all. The period, the rule, I'm bad, I'm in those days, I'm down, I'm wondering if we're noticed, you're a woman, you're welcome to the club, it's women's stuff, what's wrong with you, you got the rule? And so all my life... Because we menstruate between 400 and 500 times in our lives, about 2,500 days, about 7 years of our lives. "The rule is what you don't talk about. That buffer that we are sold in a chocolate case, the ultra-flat compress that no one will notice when you carry it, the ibuprofen, the paracetamol, and the pill or antidepressants that we have to take in hiding to contain the destabilizing premenstrual syndrome. The rule is what they say makes us women and that, according to some, makes us emotionally unstable, irritable and even violent, and throughout history it has served as an excuse to defend that we are incapable of doing almost anything, from batting mayonnaise to studying at the University." These last paragraphs are from the article Commendation of the rule that Pikara Magazine published in 2011. Today, we will discuss a subject which has never been cultivated in this Chamber. It's not a coincidence, because our society and institutions are like that. We don't talk about some things because they're uncomfortable or not interested. And the period and whatever comes to it, completes these two premises. But for that we are here, from my parliamentary group, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, we also want to bring debates and talk about the politics of our bodies, from feminism, from our daily lives. Our cycle occupies a quarter of our life, and is an important part of our body and psychological experience. The experience that, today, according to Eustat, we live 500,000 people in Euskadi. And so, today we're going to talk about menstruation and we're going to talk about menstrual poverty. To clarify concepts, to agree on what we are talking about and to banish some preconceived ideas, this non-law proposition does not bring a concept that we have invented ourselves. I wish it was that way. But, well, it turns out that, from international bodies and from the human rights agenda, there are already literature on this, and from the global feminist agenda as well. What doesn't exist, what doesn't exist... are public policies in many countries and regions that address it. And we admit that there may be some lack of knowledge about the term, because it is, well, that, perhaps the first time that a central approach is discussed in this Parliament. Although, looking at the hemerotheque, we have seen as one of our colleagues in the last legislature raised a non-law proposal on endometriosis and improvements for his attention in Osakidetza, and went ahead. Years of pain, difficulties in getting pregnant or insufferable rules are what 10,700 women live in Euskadi. And that's endometriosis. Something that has had to be addressed from pathology, when it could have been addressed from menstrual health. The month as a political process, the month as a culture process, and all the taboos around it. And here I want to continue to disassemble some preconceived ideas, such as that we have to address this issue from an assistanceist approach, focusing exclusively on the access of vulnerable groups to products related to menstrual hygiene. And, well, limiting a non-legislative proposition to that particular issue, for, well, it would be at least paternalistic, and would enter into those control mechanisms that we often establish for people in vulnerable situations. Moreover, it does not place women's autonomy and their right to health at the centre, among many other issues. In the face of the absence of public policies, women often pull from community networks, which provide products urgently or immediately. And, well, in that, actually, women are experts. This is a question that we also value, but we must collect the impact it has on our economies and lives, for example the VAT that applies to these products or the ecological footprint that they leave behind. Faced with these perceptions, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, we want to address poverty and menstrual health from a rights approach, from an equality approach and from a public health and comprehensive sexual education approach. Because if we do not address this debate from these rights, what we are doing is to invisible the forms of machismo, of machista violence, that experience our bodies and those that we do not always know how to name them. By clarifying another point, we use other conceptual frameworks on a daily basis, such as child poverty or energy poverty, as instruments, not as ends. They serve us to identify factors that contribute to the transmission of intergenerational poverty or to draw attention to aspects that do not necessarily need to be addressed from social protection, and this role is the same that fulfils in this initiative the concept of menstrual poverty. So, what's the purpose for us today? Here, where every one stands for us, we must come to some substantial matter, which in the middle of life, in the centre of life, may give us the opportunity to develop the public policies that really place it, and the violence of not having any political views on the health of the period. Because menstruating is political. "It is a social, economic and political fact, which is crossed by race, gender, sexual orientation, social class, location and all those small details that make us live in our body as we live." This sentence is taken from the book I Menstruate by Erika Irusta. This author speaks, precisely, of this political construction wrapped in various myths. The myth... the first is the myth that the rule is what makes you a woman, on whom femininity is based, but in a society that does not care for or respect the different physical, mental and animistic changes that it entails. The second myth is that having the rule always carries pain and suffering. Pain and suffering, normal. The rule dictates that it is an issue to talk about always in privacy and, moreover, we have been reminded of this from religion to the absence of comprehensive education in this regard. And this does, this comes to do, that our health gradually worsens and is chronicled. The third myth is that it is possible and desirable, and socially viable, that we do not show vulnerability to this issue, especially so that it does not have an employment impact, in the workplace. When, in reality, the pains we feel are always influenced because we live in a society that denies us the right to care for our body, and blames us if we can't do everything. And, there, the powerless with everything, the tyranny of Mr. Wonderful; as if it were a matter of attitude alone, and as if it were not also related to the tasks and privileges that we have distributed and attributed socially. There is another myth that is that you are a hormone with legs and that this legitimizes the double bias when we show anger, when we give our opinion, when we manage in the conflict, because there is a story, preconceived, that allows us to minimize, disregard our contributions and make ourselves dependent on hormonal changes. And the fifth myth is that menstruating is ancient, because it is a perverse effect. Science and pharmacological development in the contraceptive field have sacrificed more than due study of the impacts on the menstrual cycle of the most popular contraceptive methods. Well, how do we reverse these myths? Marking them as factors that contribute to the social, economic and cultural vulnerability that encloses the ignorance of menstrual fact. This is what we call menstrual poverty as a political concept. It is a complex and integral problem, which is affected by consumption, education, politics, health care, access to health facilities, the existence of social constructions... And we cannot reduce menstrual hygiene to a question of consumption, when it is essentially a question of health, rights and equality. And from this starting point, what is the horizon to upset this situation? To take the view of rights, health and education, integrated and intersecrational. The rights approach forces us to act also taking into account the impact of our inaction, doesn't it?: who are the right holders of the right to decent menstrual health and to a life free from factors that generate menstrual poverty, which rights are coupled with, from which areas it is necessary to act and to make this the central approach. This proposal that we are bringing today is in conflict with target 5.6 of the 2030 Agenda, to which we have committed ourselves and to which this autonomous government also has a commitment. It also coincides with an axis deployed within the United Nations Equity Generation initiative. The approach to health, public health, from this approach; not only because it is the responsibility of 30% of the population, who are menstruating, but because it is directly related to the incorporation of a gender perspective in the design of health systems and in strategic planning to move towards resilient, healthy and non-pathological societies. Menstrual health versus menstrual diseases or menstrual diseases is a matter of public health, and now more than ever it is in force in this debate, with the impact that COVID has had, with which the number of people below the poverty line has grown and many families are no longer receiving income and have serious difficulties in meeting basic needs, including access to menstrual hygiene products. From the educational approach. Surely, we all remember at our high school stage, don't we? Well, that, when you had to get up, the discomfort of asking or asking the teacher for permission to go to the bathroom. The phenomenon of the first menstruation, I believe that by generation we have all lived it; perhaps now that is a little out of date. But, well, and, above all, just like, the self-hate we inflicted on ourselves, and that's like a training we do to bother our bodies, isn't it? We used to get used to that pain, passing... We often repressed it, pretending that nothing happened those five hours you were sitting in school or in high school. And you were dedicating a great mental space, and I think you're still dedicating yourself, not to be noticed. In short, it's normal not to be comfortable. And this, well, well, it sounds like anecdotes, but I think we all fully understand what we're talking about. And from the educational perspective, therefore, stigma must be eliminated, and that only goes through an educational policy in regulated education, informal education, non-formal education. And how to deconstruct myths, change stereotypes, promote the empowerment of girls and adolescents, especially so that access to information and the generation of knowledge about menstrual health and hygiene are served from the public sphere. The approach of strategic public policies... here self-care or community care can be an immediate response, but it must always be accompanied by the community, from the generation of a culture that gives care the social and strategic value it has for the sustainability of our lives and, in this case, for the sustainability of our bodies as well. And because if we do not put care in the centre, the women and the bodies that become poorer in health are ours, but also in health, and they generate economic inequalities because of access to more precarious jobs as well. We don't want to stay behind. I believe that today is an opportunity, apart from discussing this issue for the first time, to be able to say that we are still pioneers on equal terms, on the basis of small achievements or small steps. And this requires continuing to open paths. We have examples in other countries and in other territories, such as Scotland, New Zealand. Nearby, then, we have in Iparralde, we have in Girona City Hall, also important steps in the Government of the Canary Islands. In fact, we need an integral diagnosis of Eukadin and a strategy, with the measures which have been started from the views we have described. For there is no data that determines the faces of the Eucharistic month mass or determines the scope of poverty. And from a diagnosis, because we can start an effective strategy with specific resources and responsibility. Our intention was also to contribute to the destigmatization of the rule, with the initiative that every local public administration and community space should have dispensers for menstrual hygiene products. This could be a pilot experience. We know that on this occasion it has not gone forward, but we can continue to work on it, and we will continue to work on it. And join efforts also at the state level. We do not want or should be left behind in this debate or continue to silence everything that has to do with the rule. This is a proposition that can be a first step in an equally historical reparation, that intersects with historical demands of feminism, such as that women's knowledge, especially what happens to us and our bodies, is valued just as the knowledge that is produced from the androcentric gaze or that gender transversality is real and is landed in concrete policies, and that we place care at the center, but indeed. For us, for our girls and those who will come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u17	Thank you, Mrs. González. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u18	Yes, thank you, President. We are discussing, at this point, the impetus for policies addressing menstrual poverty. Poverty is a multidimensional phenomenon, manifested by the lack of capacity to acquire goods and services that are essential in the society in which that person lives, and menstrual poverty is one of those deficiencies. Menstrual poverty is the term that encompasses not only the lack of access to women's hygiene products, but also the difficulty of access to the facilities necessary for proper hygiene during the period of menstruation. Menstrual poverty stems from economic poverty. Addressing the hygiene needs of all adolescents is a fundamental and international challenge of human rights, dignity and public health, which is included in four of the 2030 Agenda SDGs. It is undeniable that the absence of sufficient economic resources dramatically affects people's living conditions and access to material goods that enable them to lead a quality life. But the typology of poverty is often classified more according to severity and its relativity in the environment in which one lives or according to the collectives that affect them in the deprivation of certain goods. My group, the Basque Socialists, believes that poverty must be addressed in an integral way, not by parcels, depending on the deprivation of certain goods in those who suffer from monetary poverty. In other words, categorizing poverty on the basis of access to certain goods relativizes its gravity; it partially resolves it, yes, but it has to be addressed in the basic structural problem and in the living conditions of people in general. When it comes to poverty, it is about ensuring that all people can have a decent life, and to that end, resources must be allocated to comprehensive approaches to get out of poverty. That is why we believe that it is complex to segment poverty into menstrual poverty, pharmaceutical poverty or other poverty, although it is true that at certain times, of course, measures must be taken to ensure certain food supplies, energy supplies and health products. Deprivation of health-related products is present in many households in vulnerable situations, which, together with household supplies, constitute the assets that families need. In a home that lives in poverty, difficult decisions are made when spending the money available: poor women have to choose between buying rice or buying tampons, or heating or paying rent. It is poverty, in general, that prevents them from living in decent conditions. My group believes that this debate should also be distinguished from the "pink tax" debate, which should be given priority because it has a wider scope for action. And in this debate, and its comprehensive approach, we, the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, are focusing on our amendment to the original whole. And then, too, it has been reflected in the compromise amendment that we have reached with the Elkarrekin Podemos Group. As no other parliamentary group has tabled amendments to this initiative, of course, the transactional has been carried out exclusively among the amending groups. The various groups will now point out to us their views on this matter. The so-called "pink tax" refers to the fact that women's hygiene products are essential goods to ensure health, not luxury. They must therefore have their corresponding reduced VAT. It must also be borne in mind that, in addition to women's hygiene products, there is no reason to have different prices for women's publishing products, which, on many occasions, are also more expensive. In any case, the provision of women's hygiene products to women without resources is a measure that can be carried out, as well as partial measures that cover certain needs. But it cannot replace the main demand, which is the consideration as an essential good of these products. We therefore believe that reducing the debate to menstrual poverty is, in the end, particu lar of the problem. The elimination of the "pink tax", as well as the legitimate demand to apply super-reduced VAT to women's hygiene products, is essential to create an equal and just society. Women should not and should not pay more for identical products, just because they are intended for women, with other formats specific to women, but we also do not have to pay higher VAT on basic products, because they are products that need to use 51% of the population. That is why in this initiative, in our amendment as a whole, we took into account this comprehensive approach, the need to include all these issues in the Poverty Reduction Plan, and also the reference to the "pink tax". In addition, we, in our amendment to the whole, also took into account that, as has also been shown in a study by the Adecco Foundation, there is little data on the possible difficulties in acquiring female intimate hygiene products among women with fewer resources. And that has been taken into account and placed in our amendment as a whole, and it has been reflected in the compromise amendment that we have reached, in the agreement that we have reached with the Elkarrekin Podemos Group, the Basque Nationalist Group and my group, the Basque Socialists. And, within this compromise amendment, what is urged is to carry out a specific study, precisely, of this issue, which then serves to be able to draw up a diagnosis containing recommendations and guidelines for public policies to be developed. Moreover, this diagnostic study is incorporated into the regular planning that is carried out and taken into account in this area and in the area of poverty in general. In addition, the Government should be taken into account and urged, from the point of view of its competence, to encourage initiatives, and to support all State initiatives involving the reduction or gratuity in the cost of menstrual hygiene products, supporting both the application of super-reduced VAT to these products and full gratuity, as well as to report on the scope and incidence of the so-called "pink tax" within the Basque market and at the state level. For our part, of course, I would like to thank Mrs González for the work she has done, which has enabled us to arrive at this compromise amendment, which I believe contains important points and covers the problem that we discussed here today in this plenary. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u19	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good morning to all of you. We've got to talk about poverty this evening. But what is poverty? It is not to have the means necessary to satisfy essential poverty, and to acquire it. Besides essential necessity, poverty is also connected with the quality of life, and education, human relations, the quality of environment, and the quality of political and spiritual freedom, are also the factors of poverty. In a larger sense, then, poverty is not the necessary means of human development. This is what we find as a definition or explanation of poverty. It is, at least, what we understand from our group, poverty in its vastest concept. Unfortunately, in our society, there are people and families in a state of poverty. However, it must be said that it is the last stage of the Euskade, in the index of the poverty rate, along with the Navarre. 25% of the Spanish State population is in danger. Euskadin, the rate is 14%, 11 points below. It may be good news for our society, but it does not mean that we have no work before we are to protect all the people and families in that state. And that's what he does, and he did it, you know? Euskedin, 1986, that is, the first study of 35 years ago, called "Punity Autonomy" in Er-Hornome, and the techniques of the Basque Good News. At least it's a 35-year-old concern that we have in our hands today, not only for society, but also for this government. This was the first study on poverty in Euskadi: "The comprehensive plan to combat poverty, thus conceived, only makes sense if it is addressed from a global, interdepartmental and inter-institutional perspective, with sectoral policies that address all aspects, both educational and health, work, cultural, care, housing, etc., of the problem, and that come to be like the closure of the comprehensive plan. But, within the set of strategic measures to be taken, it is mandated as a basic objective to respond to situations of marginalization that are characterized by the absence of regular income in a family unit." And it is that, as I said, from our group, that is how we understand poverty from the broadest of its conceptions. It must be addressed from a global perspective, with sectoral policies that address all its aspects, being fully cross-cutting. And that's where we're heading into the defense of today's initiative. Going to the original sense, that is to say, one of the aspects of this poverty, we will call it a Master, and I, comparing with Mme. Gonzále, have brought with her a more simple definition. poverty is called the instrumental means of buying products for women's sanitary hygiene. Unfortunately, as Mrs. Sánchez has said, people and families are bound to the usual process of election: what they can get, according to their privilege, to pay the light, or to buy the foods of the week, to buy the necessary clothes, or to pay for the water. They always get into that selection process. And in this process, even the products of women's personal hygiene are included. For comparisons, this is the reality of some families, and, as I have said, we must protect it in the most comprehensive sense. The Eusko MUY has a number of programmes and plans to face poverty, and, as I have said, we understand it in the largest concept of poverty, but we are talking about poverty, in this case women, about mentrual poverty. There are several programs and plans. I won't say all of them, but, well, the support of the collective people who are in a state of emergency have been promoted for the last few months, and for different reasons the support of the collective subsidies which have not been introduced to the RGI. For example, the Basque Recovery and Resilience Programme Euskadi Next already provides for 16 billion for social emergency aid, in addition to 9,309 million for aid from the exclusion fund. This shows that apart from the initiatives that can be presented and approved in this House, welcome, gaurkoa bezalakoa, the Basque Government is working to accompany these most vulnerable groups in their struggle for a dignified life. And that commitment of the Basque Government can also be found in the Government Programme itself, when it acquires, precisely, the commitment to strengthen measures to prevent and address homelessness, in situations of energy poverty and other situations of poverty affecting particularly vulnerable people, with particular attention to those facing multiple discrimination or lacking a social support network. And all this for the most vulnerable people, including women, because menstrual poverty is poverty, Azken end up. To go to the specific activity of today, we must say that in our correction we refer the matter to what is called "the rose-tree" or "the rose." In the end, then, we speak of our agreement with the Podemos together. It is called the "Gream" for the prices of women and men's products and services, which is, as it were, generally exposed to the products of women. The reason of this difference is, we may say, that it is the end of this practice to make a woman feel as if she were a special customer. This reason seems to us unacceptable to us, apart from all consideration of the genus, because we must consider that these products are fundamental to personal hygiene. And that is why, as I said, we consider unacceptable the application of the so-called "pink tax", said briefly and superficially, a rate that applies to women's personal hygiene products. From our group we believe that all the competent institutions should jointly draw up a report on the existence, scope and impact of the so-called "pink rate", i.e. a report on the political and institutional initiatives and actions in all areas of competition that could be developed, covering a comprehensive analysis of the products concerned and their price, in order to enable the elimination or reduction of the so-called "pink rate", and that the products now collected by this rate should become basic products. And so we wanted to move it into our initial amendment, and also, as I said, into the compromise we achieved with the Elkarrekin Podemos Group. We urge the Basque Government to prepare this report in order to know the situation we are dealing with today, but we also urge the Government of the State to do so precisely at the state level, because we believe that it is very important to have a broad perspective on this issue. Moreover, we must not forget that it is the government of the State itself that has the competence, for example, to reduce VAT on these products; we have asked the representatives of the Basque Nationalist Party in various institutions, from the General Councils of Bizkaia, for example, to the Congress of Deputies itself, with which this question to our group, at least, sounds to us, and we have no hesitation in defending it. We may consider it opportune to urge the Basque Government to carry out this knowledge report and to support all initiatives that favour the elimination or reduction of the "pink tax", and we have done so both in our original amendment and in the text that we have agreed on, but if the institutions that are really competent to do so do not do so, it can hardly serve what we are asking for. Finally, I would like to thank Mrs. Gonzále, for her disposition to make a treaty. In fact, I think that desire from both of us to come to an agreement has been, because we have been in constant communication. And, in my opinion, we have come to a pretty middle-class place, and at last we have come to agree with the disagreement between them, which is to be congratulated. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. Passing on the day of no correction, Mistya, your word, Mrs Martínnez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. A family, a woman, whose economy does not allow her to acquire basic necessities for her menstruation has no menstrual poverty; she is poor in the strict sense of the word. Just as a family that, for example, cannot pay diapers for their children is poor, even though the tax on these items is 21%, and you have said nothing about that. Stop inventing words with feminist rhetoric to give some meaning to that institution created by your minister, that of Equality. And that we have all seen, moreover, that it is meaningless. From Vox we refuse to make a tablet flag. To think that sharing buffers reduces poverty, that's demagogic. Let us therefore speak of poverty, to which the Government of Podemos condemns us with a receipt of light twice as expensive, for example. We propose that the products of first necessity, such as tampons, compresses... , have a super-reduced VAT. We fully agree. But not because of menstrual poverty, but because they are products of primary need. I repeat, as are many others. Their problem, that of Podemos, is that they are going into barrage in the face of the terrible failure of their passage through the Government of Spain. Go, for example, to the queues of hunger, and you will see what poverty is and not just menstrual. Poverty they condemn with their sandstones. Women in famine suffer loss of menstrual period; I don't know if they knew. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos, they would do better to attack the causes of the queues of hunger, of stomach and vital poverty, rather than dancing to the sound of Irene Montero and other "femiprogres", talking about a natural phenomenon every 28 days, trying to cover the main consequence of their disastrous policies, poverty. What we need is work, work and means, to care for the livelihood and dignity of the active members of society, so that everyone can earn their bread and that of their children. The rest will be solved alone. Less stories and more useful politics. However, since Vox, we do not understand how you bring this issue to the Basque Parliament, which is also part of the Spanish government with the PSOE. Make a memory or go to the hemerotheque. I remind you that in 2019 you signed a government agreement, in which this point was one of the most important points. I don't know if you remember. But, year after year and peak, they have signed General State Budgets and, curiously, they have not included this point. Why, ladies and gentlemen of Podemos? Why do you bring it here today when you know that it is up to the government of which you are a party to reduce VAT on these products? We all applaud a super-reduced VAT on these products. But don't be mistaken, we don't do it because we're feminists, but because of social justice. Just like we want many other products to fall: diapers for older people, diapers for babies, baby milk and many more. They talk about women as if we were a single whole, as if there were no different women with different ways of thinking. They impose on us that menstruation should not be intimate. What I'm saying is that every woman lives the menstrual moment as she pleases, not as all of you tell us. For some it will be an intimate moment, for others it will be a change of mood, for others a moment of liberation... And that's how it must remain, every woman must be free to live and feel that moment as she chooses to live it, and not as the sectarian left forces us. Never, for example, have I felt hatred with my body, as you said women felt, for having the rule. They want to impose on us problems that we don't have the vast majority of women. And to clarify, lastly, the "pink cup" that I saw in the amendment of the Nationalist Party. If we talk about the "pink cup", we should also talk about the "blue cup", if we really want to be fair and fight inequality. According to studies by various brands and companies – studies, I repeat –, each sex suffers from price increases depending on the market and its demand, not because it is of one sex or another. For example, perfumery and feminine beauty products are more expensive than men; but, on the contrary, women's clothing is much cheaper than men's. Manufacturers and distributors mark their guidelines in the valuation of prices in the laws of supply and demand, beyond any political discourse, be it pink or blue. The communists have believed that the compresses are going to give them wings. That's what the media does...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u23	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u24	...nos confunden. It is shameful how they intend to use poverty and the situation of the most disadvantaged for propaganda purposes for their political ideas. He who is poor is poor, in all his sense; without postmodern theories with a gender perspective. Obviating this could also be intellectual poverty.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u25	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. "Essalka Populara-Ciudadnos's representative...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, good morning. Well, we are going to support the compromise amendment, signed by the groups supporting the Government and the Elkarrekin Podemos Group, but I would also like to make some considerations on this issue. For us, menstrual poverty stems from economic poverty, and entails the difficulty of buying products that have to do with women's hygiene, as well as the difficulty of meeting certain needs in the field of women's hygiene. But it also has to do with another issue, which I think is important, to which there has not been too much reference, it seemed to me, in the interventions, but in the text that has been fucked, which is all that it has to do with measures to promote health and sex education. I believe that this is one of the objectives that public health must pursue. And, in that regard, I believe that an effort must also be made in all measures relating to the promotion of health. I do have to say, Mrs González, that I do not think there are so many myths about this issue. I, at least, in the areas in which I move, everything that has to do with female menstruation is treated with absolute naturality. And, of course, I want to say that women can have complicated moments – all we know, the ones we are here – many, but we can also have them because our head hurts, or because we have fallen, or because we do sport and we have more holes than normal. I therefore believe that it is also important that we deal with these issues with normality; they are visible, but with absolute normality. Come on, me, in the areas where I move, at least, they are treated with absolute normality. And besides, I think it has to be. "Reeción con la propuesta de transacción, me paire importante que..." well, aliens cuesmentes que se acorado, poniedo debers al Gobierno Vasco: On the one hand, in this proposition about health and hygiene as a master, Eukko would have to make an investigation, a detailed investigation, to know why, where are the reasons when we talk about this subject, and after we know the consequences of that inquiry, we have to make a plan. And even at this point, it is also mentioned that in order to promote health and even in sexual education, exact enterprises must be directed. BEZari buruzko paragraph bat ere agertzen da, baisa argi dago, BEZari buruz hitz egiten dugunean, instituzio honi, edo Eusko Jaurlaritzari, ez dagokiola, beraziki BEZa jaistea Espainiako Gobernua dagokiolako, gure eskumenak ikusten baditugu. I think it is right to ask the central government – we are not competent – to reduce the VAT on products related to women's hygiene, which is 10%. It may also seem good to me – and in this regard, I think we are already pushing it forward in this Parliament – to reduce, for example, the VAT on masks from 21 % to 4 %, which was finally made in a royal decree law on 17 November 2020. This was also a nonsense, and I believe that the central government, in this matter, was late, and finally, VAT was reduced from 21 % to 4 % of the surgical masks, not in the FFP2 masks. I want to say that, if we talk too... and I think it may be important to talk about these issues, about menstrual poverty, but I also think that there are other issues that have to do with poverty and that also affect or involve women especially, such as, for example, the hairdressing, aesthetics, barbershops, in which it also makes no sense to maintain such a high rate of VAT, at 21%. Because there are many people, especially the group of older people, who have to go to the hairdressing shop out of need, because they have difficulty getting fixed at home, or that aesthetics can also be linked... or aesthetics... with problems, even, in many cases, health problems, dermatitis or other issues. So, too, I have to say that, just as we are talking about the unfairness of menstrual poverty and the need to adopt and arbitrate the necessary measures to curb it, I also believe that, even if it is not competent, good, because as we have here called for VAT to be reduced and we have talked about the "pink tax", we will also not have – as I have already announced – any inconvenience in proposing a concrete initiative for the reduction of VAT in the hairdressing, cosmetic and barbershop sector, from 21 to 4%. We have done so recently also in the Congress of Deputies, and it is an initiative that I say we will push in this House, so that the central government in this area is urged. And, according to what I have said, we have no trouble, and we will give our help to the signed proposition. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u27	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Protect the representative of the EH team, Mrs. Houseland, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u28	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Well, first of all, I think it's essential to run a clarification around certain terms, like all the members who have spoken before me, right? Poverty is to be desired, and poverty to look at, is it not? You can do it from different points of view. Eta, alde battik, poreziaren ikuspuntu horretan, would like to start by putting on the table that those who are impoverishing us, in this sense, are both the companies and the States, which put abusive VAT of 10% on products of primary need, as if we were a whimsical for needing tampons or compresses. They're stealing from our faces! Above, well, we could already talk, at some other time, about the type of product being sold. Many research has shown that bleachers are still being used, that they are destroying vaginal flora, among other things. And I think that when we are asked what clouds smell like, we should ask what the products that we are getting into, also in these basic products, which I think we also need to talk about. And we are also impoverished by the cultures, stigmas and taboos created around menstruation, life cycles, menstrual cycles... I believe that, obviously, when we are in cultural, social... different areas, we will live, we will talk, in different ways, but of that to think that today we live with a total normality menstruation, and especially in the earliest ages, it seems to me that it is not to see and not to realize what is happening in schools. And that is why, another of the points that have been discussed and that have reached the transactional, and that speaks of it, I think that talking about sex education, talking about menstrual education and talking about menstrual culture is very important. And for this reason and because of the importance it is being given to investigating what reality we have in the Basque Autonomous Community, that yes, there are research that teaches us the different stages of poverty, the different situations, but we are not talking about this... I think it is very important and, therefore, we too, from Euskal Herria Bildu, will vote in favour of the transactional to which they have come. To protect our bodies, and to know and love our bodies, we are speaking of possession of them, and not of business with us. The blood of our period, our mines or our pain, our processes... We're talking about establishing them as special. And we're talking about mentrual drinks, sex education, síndrome del trochico, tampons and compresses, because they're political things. And today, in this legislature, we find it very important to talk about it. Because they're polytics like luxury products when the VAT is located at 10% of these products. Because it's polytic to give or not to give the sex education as a matter of course. To choose to use a tampon or a company or an instrumental glass, and to know what each is, where it is divided and how we use it. Because that's also political. So we believe there's no business with this. By the influence of business, too, we are hindered by the possibility of satisfying our wants by so many women. We're talking about setting women's resources and self-service. In the Spanish State, an inquiry made before pandemia showed that two women had an antihigic period of their period, because their period was not sufficient access to any sanctum, tampon, or menstrual glass. We believe, then, that, as we say in this inquiry which we have mentioned, it is essential to us to look at this state of things as a person living in a state of poverty, because it is not the same because it is not the same as what is derived from culture or religion, for it is not the same in the time of inquiry and quantum manner. So culture and education are indispensable. And not to do business with this and our body. Mugimendu feministak daukan lelo bat apultxo bat erebisionatuz, esaten den bezala: get your rosaries and your checks out of our ovaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Passing on the answering round, together, Podemos-Nozzer team has the word. Mrs. González.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u30	Well, first of all, I'd be happy to make an agreement in this important matter. And, well, thank you, Madame Ipiñazar, for your patience, and also for your pedagogy. It is not easy; there are times for disagreement, and there are other times for agreement. There are also issues that, I think, put us each a little bit in our place, and I like them, because I see that there are issues that, if we talk about them, we almost all come to a minimum agreement. And to me, that this is the first time that this issue has been debated in this Parliament and that we have been able to reach an agreement and, in addition, that we have received, well, feedback from other parties that are going to vote in favour, so it is very important. And I think that, which is not only important to us, to my parliamentary group, but I think it is important to our society, right? And by landing at Euskadi, I know that you have made many references at state level; I believe that at state level you are taking steps too and going to take them, and in this initiative we are also urging you to do so. I think it is also time to take steps in Euskadi. Ikerketa bat dago abian Unibertsitatetik. Garrantzitsua da hori, Emakundetik beast ikerketa bat Egypt, eta horretan zentratu nahi duni nire weretzun-txanda: zentzuk dira guretzat puntu garrantzitsuenak akordioan? Lehenengoa, "Emakunderekin, arloko adituekin eta henerako gizarte- eagileekin lankidetzan, egin tenala Azterlan bat Euskadin, albait lasterren, osasun eta hygiene menstrualari buruz". Because it's very important, and I wanted to comment on something Mrs Sánchez said about not fragmenting the... It is true that we do not have to fragment poverty. I have told you, when I explained that for us it is a conceptual framework of poverty, and that, of course, it cannot be understood without all the multidisciplinary range from which it must be addressed. And, therefore, this first point, since this study is intended to be done with this interdisciplinary approach. In the second place, based on this "temporal and diagnosis," with the rest of the Eucharistic administrations, social institutions, and worldly experts, let him put up the usual set-up view in order to support the pedagogue of hygiene among others." The third point on which we have reached agreement is to "promote initiatives at the community level, but also at the state level, involving the reduction or gratuity in the cost of menstrual hygiene products, and to make a report on that so-called "pink tax" also here in Euskadi". I wanted to remember, because reading these days articles on the subject, the truth is that I was surprised that Kenya, for example, was the first country to cancel taxes on women's hygiene products. It is true that there have been, and there are, very concrete actions in many territories, but I believe that the step we are taking is the basis for carrying out many other initiatives, which can be much more tangible for citizens, such as those proposed by Mrs Etxebarrieta, who mentioned some, such as the dispensers or many other matters. Recently, in the City Hall of Girona, they have also promoted an initiative whereby women workers can have a few hours a month of free will on this issue. I think we have examples close by, on very specific issues, that citizens will understand what it is to land it, but I believe that from Parliament what was right for us today is what we have done. And so I think we all have to be congratulated, because it is a collective issue, and I want to say that I am very grateful for the provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u31	Thank you, Mrs. González. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u32	Yeah. I believe that the different representatives of the various parliamentary groups that we have spoken today agree that, of course, everything about menstrual poverty must be discussed in a comprehensive debate, including on poverty, and can be integrated into the Poverty Reduction Plan. Obviously, Mrs Garrido, we know that VAT competition is state-owned. That is why, as part of our initiative, the Basque Government is urged to support any initiative, at state level, aimed at supporting the application, in these cases, of reduced VAT or products free of charge. Mrs Martínez, it was in our commitments, and we usually meet the commitments at state level. Not all the commitments that can be made under a government agreement – we know that the political groups that we have ever ruled, and that we govern – as I say, not all the commitments that are made under a government agreement are met from the zero point, from the very beginning; they have to be fulfilled throughout the entire legislature. It is true that we have talked about including it in this year's General Budgets. It wasn't like that in the end. That does not mean that this commitment is not on the table and will not be fulfilled later. I think we've reached a good deal today. We have discussed and talked about menstrual poverty, about the "pink rate", which is on the table, which is a debate that is there, which is also taken into account within the 2030 Agenda. And, as debates that are on the table, it is good to discuss them and talk here in Parliament. And I believe that we have reached a good agreement, which includes a series of measures, studies, diagnoses, to adopt within the same possible measures that can be included in the overall plan to combat poverty that we have, and that is important and good; it is always good to move forward and to improve and to be able to include things that can improve, in general, the lives of citizens and, in particular, women. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u33	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. The eubertarian, Mrs. Ipiñazar, must not speak a word. Miss, Mrs Martínnez must not speak. Not even Mrs. Houseowner. [[Pause]] The discussion is over and we'll vote together Podemos-Nozzerzka, Eukal Socialists, and Eubertarians signed semi-conditioning. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 75; the supporters, 74; the opposites, 1; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u34	So the midway corrections are accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Provided by the parliamentary members of the Union, by the production of a special committee of the physical conditions, functionary, and workers, which are to be observed by the old men of Esquimenia of the Esquire. Discipline and final resolution. It's the caller's turn. Madame Kortja's words are yours to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, all of you. And you can be good and welcome today by protecting the relatives of the residents of the old pensions and pensioners of the community, who are here to see the discussions given in this parliament. And first of all, our confession and our thanks to the work you're doing all these months. The sixth2.1 article of the legislature's rule of the legislature predicts that the whole Union will be able to decide on any subject which directly affects the Basque Society. And we believe that the Basque Country is one of those themes which, in the last year, have been directed by what has been done to the Basque Society, and which directly interposes us. He struck down the centers of residences of old COVID. Ever since Pandemia has exploded, these centers have been one of the main focuss of the disease. The inhabitants of these dwellings [are] great, both those who dwell in them, and those who dwell in them. It's terrible, and I think there's no one who can deny it. It's been a dark year, and the data is very raw: There have been more than 1,000 casualties in the hotels, approximately 3 residents since COVID died. It's been a particularly tough year, probably, the toughest measures, the hardest measures to maintain the COVID, the residential centers of the age of the human team that's been through, isn't it? The prices of isolation have been much influenced by them, and many have been worse, I should say, most of them physically and psychically. For a long time without visits and with strangers, with families, with their own handles, their relations being reduced, I should say that such a strange and disturbing situation has been affected in a dreadful procession. And I want to repeat, because it's very well received and hasn't the dimensions of what's happened and what's going on? : "Suman días a la vida, pero no vida a sus días." I have already said: and I believe there is little more political in the lives of the residents, relatives, and workingmen, than that phrase contains? And all the hopes that had been put in the vaccination, but reality is that even if the insertion brought relief, which is undeniable, even if it had brought little rays of light, and even if it had brought the chance to breathe a little, many residents, relations, and workmen still see an obscure state. We learned today that here, in a Gastize mansion, there is another focus, which, in this darkness, increases even the anxiety. During these long months, the evidences have been hard on them. I don't play them here, we know them all, and I'd say they put us all in a big place, chicken butt. We've even had a chance to listen to the government here, haven't we? For instance, the Resurrection from the mouth of a labourer in the tabernacle. There's a limit to the lives received in the Gabe Medical Poco, tarde y mal report. And how we've come here, we've had a lot of arguing about it in this parliament, the Basque People, the initiative of the Union. And it is true, in a certain degree, that covida has been a surprise to all of us, and that it has brought us to this place and experience, but we have also arrived at the place where we have arrived for the political acts of years, and have arrived as we have arrived: To encourage continual privatizations, to leave the readiness of services necessary to exercise the rights of men under the logic of private profits... Because, after all, they're public services offered by market criteria, as often as they're managed by management model or by private companies directly. In some cases, then, there are dependences in the hands of the vultures. We come here to say that we do not, over and over again, reflect together on the model, because we do not understand the magnitude of what is regulated. You get here because of the decisions you make, and also because you don't make them, right? Because from the first moment it was decided that the Social Service Law should renounce the rights that tend to make a joke about this matter. That's because, as we've often said, it's been overreacted from the roles that are concerned with the housing. We've even come here because we didn't want to put up the resources necessary to protect and protect people. It's like, "Y, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, like, "You know, you know, you know, you know, Because the lack of hand has been a sign of the management of the given crisis here. As in other communities, he has not interfered with any of the centers here. And something very serious has happened, hasn't it? Here some of them have been discussed in various controversies; but, for instance, no hands have been entered into a sitting-house in the hands of a multinational, where a quarter of a resident has lost his life. But to-day, to be honest, I am not going to focus on these severe experiences, either in some cases, in these obscurantous and unacceptable events, and not in those political decisions which have led us here, and which have so often been discussed? Today, as authorities, I'd like to deal with the responsibilities we have. I want to focus on the care, consideration or work that is worth taking care of people living in residences, their families and their workers. Ten you had komeni of the gogoratzea zerbitzu publish in the railway station, weretzukizun publish in the railway station, kudeaketaz, eta horrek supposatzen dueen ardura politiciko eta publicikoaz. Eta horrek interpelatu egiten gaituela gogoratu behar dugu, bete-betean. I will heritarre kontu ematera derigortuta gaude, eta daude Gobernuak. Derrigortuak gaude denak. During this year, all this had occurred to society, the question and concern of the conditions of keeping old persons. We should say it is the subject which has excited the care of society, and the subject which has a great influence on society. We're dealing with the daily and daily care of 18,000 users, and with the conditions of work for 10,000 guards. So we're talking about a big-dimensional matter. We know that this has been a serious matter, that we were surprised, that it was very difficult, and that it is being, and that any system would strain. But we have to be careful and responsible, and that's what we're supposed to be. To see no sign of crime about what a judge has done, whether the situation has now been improved or the number of dead has fallen, or that he has gradually begun with visits, does not mean that we have not failed in this matter. To a people in Duina, to a people who want to protect and protect their fellow-citizens, what has happened at the farms is a great failure in society. He's un fracaso cocctivo que exige una selfcrítica comunaria. Herri duin batek, Gobernu duin batek, agintari duinek, herri-ordezkari duinok, ezin dugu gerstatutakoaren aurrean beasts alde a batera begiratu eta weretzukizunak sheathik kendu. A honetan geroak zer ekarriko two aurreikustaa zaila baldin bada ere, guk uste dugu honetatik ezin garela aera gerratutakoa zehatz-mehatz aztertu gabe and adinekoen stop Zaintza-ereduan eraldaketa sakon beats substatu gabe. We cannot get out of this, without knowing exactly what has happened, and without considering a transformation of the model of care and deep care, in depth, of the elderly, so that what has happened does not happen again. Hence we propose today that the members of the legislature, which we form the Parliament, are a special committee of inquiry, because we believe that this is one of those matters which directly influences the Basque Society, and that our attention, our consideration, and our work are a subject worthy of our work. From an independent judge-of-the-year-old judge in the community, after hearing Administration, managers, workers, and their families, and the agreement with Podemos together, we planned a report within six months of the year, not? In a way, all these experts and independent judge-in-laws, and a report about the Supreme Court and the consequences of all of them, and the result is to make use of the back-bones or decrete pattern of the old men of Basque Autonomia in the Renaissance. That's what we're proposing, huh? Activar una comitio de investigación, que a partor de una auditorias de independententia de lostros rescentias paramens mayores mayores a partares del a partariis, en virtud de las funncines que le atriæ la Alta Inspecci de locis Socies, y tras caros lagnoss viscire, une de vis de viscera, de viss de vis de vis de viscires de vis de vis de vis de visia, de vis de vis de vis de vise de vies de vie, de vis de vie de vie de vie de vise de vis de vis de vie de vies de la vis de vis de vies de la vis de vis de vis de vis de visias de la res de la vis de la vis de la vis de vis de la vis de la res de la res de la res de la vis de la vis de la resss de la res de la vis de vis de la res de la res de la la vis de la vis de la virescirescirescirescirescirescirescires de la viss de la res de la res de la ressssssssssss de vis de la res de vis de vis de vis de vis de vis de la res de vis de la res de la vis de vis de vis de vis de la vis de la res de vis de vis de la vis de vis de vis de la vis de vis de la vis de la res de la res de la vis de la vis de la res de vis de la res de viscirescire de la rescirescirescire de la res de vis de vis de la vis de vis de la vis dela In the end, what we are looking for today is to analyze what has happened in depth, and to establish the conditions and guarantees to guarantee dignity and quality in the care of the elderly. Again, as in the earlier days of reflection on this subject, the groups which support the government and the government will refuse to activate this section of inquiry. To find out what happened in those old people's dependences. No doubt about your style, faithful-fidel. There's no doubt about that. We believe that this issue cannot be given for amortization or for severance. We can't allow him to keep looking elsewhere, to see if this subject is going to happen and forget, can we? Es una cuestion de asunción de responsabilades. You're going to have to explain it here today. You must explain to these residents, relatives, or workers why you're refusing to find out what happened. And we are clear that we cannot get out of this without addressing a serious and calm debate, and that it is now necessary and binding. We also believe that it is a moral duty. A people who care and protect their fellow-citizens, a worthy people, and a worthy Government cannot refuse to inquire into what has happened in their houses: it is our duty, our responsibility, and we owe it to the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections together Podemos-Nozzerz, Mrs. González, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u37	Good morning again. Well, nearly noon. Welcome to our fellow-travellers, both in the streets, here in Parliament, with your scene here today: On the one hand, the association of the relatives of those who dwell in the houses was to protect the association, and on the other the movement of the Pentsiums. We are again putting forward in this Parliament a debate on which most of the groups in this House have drawn an indisputable conclusion today: that the current residential model does not guarantee comprehensive care. Egia da: Legebiltzar honetan guztiok ikusten dugu premiazkoa de la gai hau, baina ez gara akordora iristen. And we say that it is a shared consensus, because we are all stressing the need for reflection on the model of residences; we all agree that the ravages of the pandemic, the ravages that have been caused in the residences, responded, on the one hand, to the new situation that they have had to face, but also, on the other hand, to structural obstacles that made the response not fast enough, effective and preventive. "Y mouth coincidmos todas en la necesidad de reflexixion." And we agree that all of us must consider this, because the damage brought by the legemels has increased the trouble, and we must face the commercial privations. From my parliamentary group, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, we understand this process within the fourth pillar of the rule of law, which demands the construction of a social welfare system that is capable of responding to the needs of care, of the socio-economic support needed for individuals and for communities, which bets on the development of public systems as the best way to ensure that care is marked by the right of people to decent care and by the right to work conditions worthy of care. Elkarrekin Podemos-Ezker Anitzaren ikuspegitik, egoitzen afera zuzenbide-statuare laugarren zutabeari lotuta dago, hau da, zintza-system publiko batan oinarrituta egon behar da, non bermatuko diren zintza duina eta lan-baldinza egokiak. This fundamental consensus, however, cannot be transformed into a parliamentary agreement, even sharing the need to review the residence decree, even sharing all that the response to the first waves was conditioned by the structural weaknesses of the system. Up to three times this revision has been approved in parliamentary agreements, from October to here. The revision of the residential model does not arise as a result of the pandemic, but rather the pandemic exacerbates the unsustainability of the model we have been maintaining. I would like to recall, in one of my first speeches in this Parliament, when we raised from my group the presentation, a presentation of care. It was also my group in February when it tabled a motion on urgent measures to ensure the effectiveness and adequacy of COVID protocols in residential social services. On that occasion, a decaffeinated amendment by the Nationalist and Socialist Group on the adequacy of the decree went ahead. Decaffeinated – I say – in terms of real commitment, but it was loaded with intentionality, in terms of wanting to establish a framework that would only review the concertation of services. At that time, it was not in the interests of giving legitimacy to a broader reflection process, which was then in the interest of announcing a reflection process, but within the framework which the Basque Government considers appropriate. Hiru aldiz leaves the adostatsunean egoitzak kudeatzeko dekretua berrikusten, bathe zuek zuek zuen labean erretzen duzue ogia. It has not been the only time that we have discussed this or addressed the need for model change. This model didn't work out well, and you know it. The users know this, the workers know this; even the institutions responsible for managing them, when they raise the need for revision of the decree. The question is how long we will continue to postpone this necessary exercise, and at what cost. Eta, will zentzuk say selfish honorara ekarri gaituzten razoi nagusiak? Ba, lehenengo, therefore, that we do not want to address the political commitment to carry out an external audit; the second, that we do not want to promote leadership from the Basque Government, which we have repeated on many occasions, and the third, that this process is not articulated as a country project, putting in place real, accessible, close participation mechanisms, with the generation of consensus and profound change. And yet for my parliamentary group these are the three indispensable elements: evaluation, leadership and participation; ebaluazioa, leadergoa eta partaidetza. But these three aspects we believe are not important to the Government, nor do they seek a broad consensus to build a country model, with social protection tailored to people in need of residential care in all its aspects. Or, well, or they do have a country model, the one that continues to bet on not deploying the public and community face of care, to limit itself to support for non-professional care. There, with a gender reading that would have to be done, interesting. But, well, I come back to those three elements that we consider important from my parliamentary group, and I would like to explain to you why. The first, the subject of evaluation. In the evaluation through an external audit or a commission of inquiry, both strategic and policy tools in building a country model. Because we believe that these are the decisions that should be building that model of country in social matters, in social policies, and social protection... they are generating elements of social cohesion and territorial cohesion, in addition to the subjective right of citizenship. In the end, it is the policy that really improves the lives of people, that most directly perceives people. And we do not understand the Government's reluctance to carry out these processes that are so necessary in terms of transparency and accountability. Neither do the users of the residences share the assessments of the administrations that must ensure their rights; even between administrations and between departments the same data and the same assessment are not collected. And if we don't want an honest look at the model's failures, then why do we propose a revision of the model? What are we asking for? And if they are so convinced of their good management, why don't they use these tools to validate and build citizens' confidence in residential care? Because neither trade unions nor family associations show confidence in the inspection services of the parliaments themselves, because they are inspections of themselves. This has been discussed at the meetings of Bizkaia, Gipuzkoa and Araba, and the entire opposition has agreed. And, in the meantime, the deputies-general have only shown self-congratulation and balloons outside of one administration for another. And this is the sense of abandonment that citizenship has. This is not to bet on progress in social justice. With regard to quality participation, which was another aspect of our agenda, we understand that the mechanisms of participation that they are announcing for that process, by the press rather than by official channels, are more than clear to confusion and even some mistrust, as they involve only environments and organizations related to the Government. And they are forgetting one of the objectives included in the Nagussi Agenda itself: to open the spaces for participation, and the incorporation of all the voices of older people and social actors. We believe that, in this exercise of participation, residential workers, users and family associations must have a nuclear voice, because they are the ones who are most affected by the planning of the residential model. And, along with them, of course, the rest of the voices involved. I want to highlight, as I always try to do, the agreement. We have reached an agreement with Euskal Herria Bildu at this point, knowing that we are most likely to continue without reaching his agreement [Bere eskuinaldeko aulkiei begiratu die]. What we fear is that, once again, we will miss the opportunity of strategic deep reflection on the residential model. We want a greater self-criticism exercise than you are willing to do, and we can continue to postpone the real debate on the need for a public care system forever. Time will tell us, and it will also make us responsible for this lack of commitment and courage with the improvement of people's lives. And we do not say this in a gloomy spirit, but as those who insist that the debate will increasingly come from more precarious situations, from a more disenchanted population, more disaffected by the usefulness of this House to reach important consensus. And that brings fatal consequences for all and for all. Let monsters appear, let fear settle, and fear translates into individualism. And the next pandemic is coming, and we are going to meet a society that is not going to join the demand for community responsibility, because it has learned from us that it is not worth making that effort, and that it does not value the public, because the public has sometimes set it aside. So we insist: try to put aside the partisan interest; let's stick to real politics, let's get into politics that improves people's lives, that they will always find us in that bet. Therefore we will ask you again, that you may leave your sectary interests and make your true policy, and that you will always accompany us in this challenge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u38	Thank you, Mrs. González. Basque Popular Group-Ciudad, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u39	Well, thank you, Mr. President, again. Chiefs of Investigations, members of the legislature... In this case, the EH Collecting Group proposes us to consider the situation of a specific committee. We must say that we have defended ourselves several times during this legislation, in the name of my party, in order to find out what has happened in this respect, and in particular to prevent those who have been present and exposed. The carriages have undoubtedly received the effect of the pandemia in several districts. Many people have died in their houses; the state in which the grown-ups have been kept has also been very special, because they had to follow the conditions they were under. And then it would be well to do the study of different resources and resources. That is why, as I have said several times, we have maintained that an inquiry must be made. As I said, we have discussed this issue on many occasions, throughout this legislature; of this almost... He's going to make an election year on July 12th. And we have maintained the same position on this issue. We believe that there have been problems in residential centers, in the management of residential centers during the pandemic. It is true that, in addition, with regard to management and dealing with certain situations, it must be remembered that mortality has been very high in the residential centres of Euskadi, reaching 36% of the total number of deaths in Euskadi; therefore, decisions had to be taken to deal with the specific and serious situation that many centres were going through in our autonomous community. In this regard, a joint protocol was adopted by the Basque Government and the outside parliaments as early as 29 September 2020. But the Department of Health is developing a protocol that brings together criteria to protect older people from COVID in residential centers. And also, well, this protocol has been adapted, leaving another one on 12 May, for the surveillance and control of COVID-19 in the centers of the socio-health field. We did say at the time that we believed that the first protocol, September, came a little late. And it also gave the impression that there was not adequate leadership to deal, at first, with the situation of the residences of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, in coordination with the outside parliaments, and that there were many moments of confusion, as I say, to deal with the specific situation of the elderly who occupy residential centres. In this regard, we have repeatedly advocated the need to carry out a study analysing the situation of the network of residences of the elderly in Euskadi, with the aim of identifying the problems and shortcomings that exist, especially those that have been identified during the pandemic, as well as other structural problems, and to implement, once the findings of that study are known, all the mechanisms to remedy them. Another of the classics that we have brought, another of the issues that we have repeatedly brought to this debate since the last legislature, is the revision of Decree 126/2019. And, in this legislature, reference has also been made to this issue. I believe, and taking advantage of the fact that the Counsellor is following this debate, that it would be desirable for the Government, once and for all, to get to work – it seems that it may be possible to do so – and for us to have this decree as soon as possible. On the other hand, we believe that the high-inspection competence under Act No. 12/2008 of 5 December 2008 on Social Services is not being adequately exercised. And, in that regard, in all the initiatives we have discussed on these issues, we have also introduced a specific reference to this issue. Finally, it seems important to us that, on the part of the Basque Government, both the Department of Health and the Department of Social Policy, which are obviously the two departments working in the socio-health field, should continually develop and improve the protocols necessary to deal with the covid, in relation to all preventive measures to be taken to prevent contagion, and protection measures. In that connection, with regard to the compromise amendment tabled, I have to say that we agree with some of the issues raised. But we do believe, above all, because Mrs Gonzalez has said "or external investigation or audit committee". I do not think these issues can be mixed up. I think it is appropriate, at this moment, to carry out a rigorous analysis, an external audit, which is what we are asking for. And then, once the findings of that external audit have been looked at and analysed, it will be possible to proceed with other mechanisms that may be necessary. But I believe that now what is urgent is to have that comprehensive analysis of the situation of residential centres, what has happened during the pandemic, and that specific X-ray of residences in Euskadi. And then we'd see. I mean, first, I think we should start there. That is why, in the proposed compromise amendment, we will abstain. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u40	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u41	Yes, thank you, President. Again, we are going to discuss whether or not a special study commission is needed to analyse the conditions of the staff of residential centres for the elderly in the Basque Autonomous Community. We are aware of the effects that the VOCID-19 pandemic has had on residential centers. And that is why, from the beginning and from the Basque Government, different measures were taken to alleviate the situation and the effects suffered on these residential centres, and that, of course, many of those measures that were aimed at protecting the health of residents within them, of workers, also had to be suffered by the family members, and they were adopted and changed throughout the pandemic, depending on the situation at the time, to make them as easy as possible within them. But what is true is that this is not the first time that we have discussed it here, but it is now the third, from September to here. And the last was on 25 February this year in a motion tabled by the Elkarrekin Podemos Group concerning the provision of urgent measures to ensure the effectiveness and adequacy of the VOCID-19 protocols, residential social services, and that – although the proposals they put forward in that initiative had not much to do with the title, of course – they were very similar to those we are debating today in the Basque Parliament, so similar that they are identical, they are absolutely identical. The Bildu proposal that is being debated today was presented on 5 February 2021, exactly the same day that the Elkarrekin Podemos Group presented its motion, which was then debated on 25 February. And both initiatives were similar in their objectives; they are absolutely identical. That is why, of course, you have said: perhaps today we will have the same answer. But, of course, if we have brought here on 25 February an absolutely identical debate to which, today, we are having here, logically, we are not going to change the position, from what was said on 25 February to what was said today, because the proposal, the compromise amendment and everything that has been put forward by the various groups, the various amendments that have been put forward by the groups, are exactly the same as those which were put forward in the motion that was already debated on 25 February last. And, in a way, it is a way of presenting to this House its true intention, which is not to make a study committee that wants to improve, that wants to debate... to make proposals, because then, when you speak and in your own debate you see what you really want to ask for or want to do. It was done at first when the request was made for the creation of a paper to do exactly the same; now they change its name, they changed it on February 25, when they were talking about a study commission, but basically what they want and then say in their debate is "study and research to ask for responsibilities". But what does one really want to achieve? What we want to achieve is to sow doubts, to start this committee, which is not a study committee, which in fact is a research committee, to come up with responsibilities in the field of measures that have been taken in residential centres. Of course, in the initiative brought here on 1 October by the Elkarrekin Podemos group, what was requested was the creation of the care presentation. And on that occasion, on 1 October, a compromise amendment signed by the Basque Nationalist group, my group, the Basque Socialist group, and the People-Citizens group, where the need and commitment to carry out the amendment of Decree 126/2019, of residential centres of older people, were already being accepted here. It was also committed that, in any event, it had already been assumed within the framework of the government agreement signed at the beginning of the parliamentary term by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Basque Socialist Group. And this compromise amendment also urged the Basque Government, and the other institutions, to carry out campaigns aimed at recognizing the social value of care. We do not agree, then, on the need to have that presentation, and we do not agree either now on the need to create that study committee, which is not really a study committee, it is a study and research committee to ask for responsibilities, it is not presented in the spirit of simply "let's study", "let's debate" and "let's propose measures", which is what is being said in every intervention here, but what is being sought with that is the conduct of a general investigation into the situation of residences at this time. The intervention of the Social Policy, Equality and Justice Adviser on 25 February highlighted the different measures that have been taken since the beginning of the pandemic and have helped to alleviate this situation. And that there has been coordination, also recognized in different studies, which have been carried out with the deputies; important inspection actions have been carried out, coordinated with the field of health and the field of social policies, which have been praised in different studies and taken into account and highlighted. All of that, you haven't considered it. That measures have been taken? Yeah. Has the situation since the pandemic started been harsh? Of course. That, of course, measures were taken that brought or had brought difficulties for both residents and families and that were taken to seek the protection, precisely, of those elderly people from the situation of the pandemic, because they were a vulnerable group. And, moreover, that they have then been adapting and changing, as the situation of the pandemic has also been changing throughout the evolution of the pandemic, from the beginning to the present. We, in the motion discussed here on 25 February, tabled an amendment to the whole, which was agreed upon and, at that time, what was called for was precisely that the Basque Government should be urged to adapt that decree regulating the residential centres of older persons. This initiative is, as I said, absolutely identical to the one we discussed that day. And therefore, when this initiative was presented, we decided that, since we had already tabled an amendment to the whole of the motion which was identical to this one and, moreover, at that time had been adopted, we were not going to submit an amendment to the whole of the initiative presented today. Not because we did not give it importance; it was absolutely repetitive of the previous one. So it made no sense to present the amendment as a whole in two exactly the same initiatives. It was presented in one; it was approved already at that time. It did not make any sense to present that amendment as a whole. So what we are going to do today is vote against, of course, the compromise amendment that was signed today between the EH Bildu Group and the Elkarrekin Group We can, because, moreover, it is absolutely the same one that was arrived at and agreed on 25 February last. And I suppose, of course, as the rest of the House's parliamentary groups have said before it, they will raise the same situation, I imagine. The People's Group voted in favour of this compromise amendment in its day. Well, I don't know what they're gonna do today. But what we, of course, are going to be consistent. We have not tabled an amendment as a whole, because we have already tabled it in that motion which was discussed and which was adopted and, therefore, today we will vote against that compromise amendment and the other proposals from the different groups that are voted on individually. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u42	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Chief of Police, Congressman, good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. At last, on a nearby day, in Europe and all the rest of the world, we've got a vaccine routine, though this summer we have theatres, movies, hotels, restaurants, and bars again, although autumn may be a happy autumn, or even if at the beginning of the next winter we could say that this pandemia has been a bad dream, there will be nothing left behind. Nothing! To us there will be a certain amount of weight-variety, and a state of life to which we are to be confronted; First, because all tragedies, all effects, all employments, and so many other errors, defects, problems, etc., must be treated as a whole. Secondly, because we shall have to take place in the highest degree/test of this kind. And thirdly, in order to avoid any improvisation or mistakes produced by the coronabirus crisis, the other because we have to deal with our economists and many other matters, as well as with social services, with changes. That all the lessons which may arise from the present state being conscious of being conscious of being conscious, and that even its future spectral conditions can produce a great shock to the system which is already established, and its changes, we should, at any rate, do ill, if we did not examine, reflect, and introduce the necessary changes. Therefore, in what seems to us to be seeing the light at the end of the tunnel, and even if this light should not have blinded us, it seems quite logical to open the process of reflection which Mrs. "To recognize what happened, a pause necessary to evaluate and evaluate what was and is there. A paused reflection, and above all shared, to be able to glimpse the desired future that best suits the needs and desires of Basques in the field of social services and within the framework of legal resources and the context in which we move." It is one of the commitments of the Government Programme. And, according to our team, this is a very important commitment. And it is plain that this reflection will be shared or not, so that the lady-head of the department explained the course she had recently explained to us. It begins by the direction of the Agenda, which is the model of public and social intervention. He'll share it with the Euskadian Civil Dialog. With the networks and associations of their masters, and in general with the citizens, the attention and care-service users, and their relations, and also with the members of the sector, the professional and social conversational table, and with the political parties, the community of the third sector, and the academic area of life. I'm not making anything up. This is the chief physician of the Artola generouss himself who said in this tribe. And all this will go to the international organisation of the Social Services, which gives a unity to the euscal system of social services, in order to produce a change of action, as well as to see what kind of home-dreaming, dwelling-chamber, etc., which may relate to concepts and adults. And that, in our opinion, is the way. It may not be as mediatic a pattern as that of the special solution proposed to us by this other law; not even that which gives the most noise, nor that which offers the headlines of one or the other way, but which will reflect on the useful pattern, what weakness and strength it can improve, what difficulty or opportunity it gives, or what other examples it can be possible. And I don't even say this one, but she said it. This is the multiplicity of views which enable all this to reflect on, and which, in our opinion, does not only succeed in content, but also in method and methodology. There are other subjects, on the other hand, which are mentioned in the discussion of this enterprise. One of them belongs to the use of an external judge-in-law or an independent judge-in-law. We don't need to do a job like that, because we have enough mechanism, spontaneous internal mechanism. I remember the mention of a representative of Medicaid who spoke to us on the board through a telematic exhibition, which gave us quite a good deal in this context of difficulties. But surely such things do not serve to feed certain discourses, do they not? Among these Mechanisms there are visions of the forum. And does any one think that these inspectional services have no interest in what has happened from the first hand, how has it been done, where have there been errors, defects, improvisations, all sorts of misery, trouble, weakness, and all the rest? Does anyone think that these inspectoral services don't know or have any capacity for a thorough study or research? Nay, do you think that those who would be derived from an external judge are not derived from all the classes of operators I have mentioned? What's going on? He's not trusted in the process, is he? Perhaps you have a good chance of expressing your complete, clear, and sonorous distrust of the party. And while we talk of visions, there is another point to be made clear. I don't know whether it's ignorance or whether it's a different acceptation of the word, but the jurisdiction of the high vision that the law of Social Services keeps to the end of the Eusko. It is not, as if it were the Supreme Court, an instance of appeal to him who says or does not perform the visions of the Supreme Court and of the Forum. The Supreme Court has its own way of acting, established in the law of Social Services (82). the article, and the following, must, in the 83.2 article, give a union to the system of social services, be explained by the common organization of social services, and the law itself expressly expresses it, in order that it may not be doubted, in article 83.2. "The task of a higher inspection is not to examine the complaints of the use of the subjective right of social services individually." "La Alta Inspección no endra en el exam indidual dejas referidas al armycio del derecho subjevo de los sociles." I think it can't be said more clearly and expressly. And, on the other hand, as far as the Presidency is concerned, we have no doubt that it performs its work properly. To conclude, I should not like to conclude, that without having made a proper comment on this other, it has been remarked that this initiative has led the same method of reproach which had been introduced in its day against the Signora of the Apples' chief physician. Numbered on the same dates (this 5th of February 12th), entered the freezer in four months, and what a coincidence! When Mrs. Artolallus' chief physician announces from this tribe that a process of reflection has been opened. It is postponed by the office of Artola generouss, the introduction of the evacuation plan of your social services, and this initiative is brought into the Chamber. It seems as if the old people's centres were not the privilege of studying the material conditions of duty, functional, and part of the workers for some of the past four months, though we come here and talk in a low voice about the dignity of the representatives and the like. But the government has worked for those four months, and the other has opened that process. I have heard more than once of the condition in which we are under the influence of political choice which we have received from Madam Cortja. Now this motion, which we have in our hands to-day, is also due to a political choice, because the modes of political choice are political. We made it clear from the beginning that our refusal, even legal doubts, might or might not have been made. And in the end we decided not to present any amendments, but others for reasons mentioned by Mrs Sánchez. Later on, when we heard about the media that he was negotiating, we saw that we couldn't change our original opinion. And that's why we're going to refuse this initiative today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u44	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Passing by the answers, Madame of the Kortah, representative of the EH Collector, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u45	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. I, first of all, had a few little remarks. I, as a deputy of the people, will descend to this door with my voice that I will defend my political choice, because I have chosen it for that purpose. And a little explanation or note, what did you mention, Mr. Faraway, that this scene about the social strategic plan was delayed, didn't you? And he drew back because he was going to celebrate on a Monday and that Friday we didn't have the paperwork, because of the diligence meal, or anything else. Horiek argituta, Mrs Sánchez I will tell you that it is not necessary to be Sherlock Holmes either to know what is proposed in this initiative, because it is very clear. It's a commission of inquiry, to find out what happened... And so that, after an independent audit on the subject, the family members, managers, administrations, family members, residents of these centres and women workers can be heard, a series of conclusions can be drawn. And you can also have the report that, according to its functions assigned by law, it is up to the High Inspectorate to carry out, and you can gather a number of conclusions. And, with all that, with all that... you can make the modifications to the decree, which, as I have said, is the backbone of what it is to care for the elderly in residential centers. It's just that I think the initiative is quite simple; come on, it's not that you've caught us, it's that, it's what comes up. And, of course, we will bring this initiative or the initiatives that are needed on this subject. Those that are needed, even if they seem repetitive to you, ze gai honek berebiziko garrantzia dauka milaka pertsonarentzat. Eta, horregatik, eskertu nahi dugu, baita ére, Elkarrekin Podemosek akordiorako erakutsitako lendssuna, orinano lehen gertatu izan zaigun bezala. You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you don't know, you know, you know, you don't know, you don't know, you don't know, you don't know, you don't know, you don't know, you don't know, you don't know, you know, you don't know, you don't know, you know, you don't know, you You'll say no to a foreign judge, I don't know why you can't make an out-of-the-way hearing. A process of reflection has been announced, yes, when we have once more refused a collective process of reflection. And it has been announced in very particular conditions, and we have our suspicions about this trial, of course. Because, for example, that list of experts that are announced, the unions aren't there, the relatives of the ego are not... They say they're going to be part of the process, but they're not among the experts who plan on that announcement process. I believe, moreover, that the consequences given and obtained in this inquiry may be combined with the work which is to be done in this process. But you will refuse once more, though I think that those who are here set up are merely excuses. Eta, zalantzarik gabe, Euskal Herria Bildu ez da honora etorri gaur gerratutakoaren inguruan errudunen bila. Ez da horren bila etorri, Sánchez andrea. Baina ez duguna permitituko da beasts aldera begiratzea. We're not looking for guilt for what happened, but we're not going to let this turn out to be amortized. We are not going to allow it, and we also believe that as a society we cannot allow it, we cannot afford it! And I would like to see a reflection in this House on how many committees, papers and working groups have been set up in this Parliament on different issues, and whether the care of 18,000 people does not deserve the same attention, consideration or work of your ladies and gentlemen. Pentsatu! Eta nik uste dut, hen house, I'll iron kontu ematea gure obligo bat her. To investigate what has happened, to address a serious and calm debate, I believe it is a political debate... it is a political and moral duty; it is a matter of responsibility and political decency. Gertutakoa ikertzea ardura eta disentzia politicikoko kontu bat yes. It's sluggish a bat bilakatu behar from the political agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Together Podemos Ankerz, Mrs. Gonz, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u47	Well, hasteko, asking for responsibilities is a job of the opposition. It's a job we can't ignore. In fact, it is a task for us, for us to be politically responsible. And I don't think we question all your processes either with yourself, with yourself or with your related organizations. We question them, of course we question them. We question them here. But we do not question them only ourselves; they are also questioned on the street by all the agents, all the associations, all the unions, who are not counted for these participatory processes. 'Cause it looks really good on paper, huh. On paper, on the role of programs, plans, projects, agendas... it's very well written. But then, terrified what we see is that they participate themselves with themselves, that they evaluate themselves. Mechanisms must be put in place to control politics. And if you were in the opposition, you'd be doing exactly the same thing. And where they're in opposition, they do the same. It is our role to put in place mechanisms to control the policy that is being done. What we bring here is a mechanism, a mechanism of transparency. Transparency as an indicator of democratic quality. Because there are... there are suspicions, there are suspicions that the actual data have not been known about what happened in the residences, neither with the deceased, nor with the deceased people, nor with the data from the satisfaction surveys, which we have talked about other times, which do not give the same data, which we have three models, in three territories three models. The role of the High Inspection, well, for us is fundamental. We do not question his existence or everything he does at all, but we do question that he does not have a good endowment of resources. We said that at the time of the Budgets, and now we say it again. A High Inspection with resources would have the capacity to carry out such assessments and allow work from the culture of ongoing evaluation. And, well, to finish, I have to tell you that self-criticism exercises are always good. And we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u48	Thank you, Mrs. González. Euskal Talde Popularra-Citizens. Garrido anderea, zure da hitza.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u49	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Lehen aipatu doubt bezala, for us it was important that again in this debate the possibility of doing an external audit on the situation of residential centers was made clear, what has happened during, above all, the first moments of the management of the pandemic, the deficiencies that have arisen, all the problems that have existed. I don't think that reality can be obviated. And it can't be obviated. And it is that this government should not be obviating it. I am not saying that it does not obviate it, but by putting in place those relevant instruments in order, of course, to remedy all the shortcomings that have been detected. And, at least, for the group I represent, I believe, we believe that the Government could do more and act by doing much more than it is doing so far. On the other hand, the revision of the decree, I believe it is an urgent matter; I believe that it is already something that we have been calling for in this Parliament with specific agreements and that it has already to materialize, the same as the High Inspection must be given content, an instrument which, specifically, appears in the Social Services Act and which, moreover, is within the competence of the Basque Government and is its leadership to implement it and, on the other hand, the revision of the protocols. Having said that, I do have to say here that we have nuances in relation to the study committee proposed by the EH Bildu and Podemos groups, because we believe that the first thing we need to have is that external audit, and once we have that external audit with its conclusions, we will see how we act, but I believe that the first thing is to have that external audit, and then, if appropriate, if it is appropriate, we should already consider opening a study committee in the Basque Parliament. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u50	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u51	Yes, well, I don't think anyone at any time has looked elsewhere, and the Basque Government at no time, from the beginning, has looked elsewhere. It has become clear today as well as in the other plenary sessions in which it has been discussed, and in very similar initiatives, that action has been taken by the Basque Government, which has had to change and adapt to the situations that were at each time in the pandemic. Obviously, right now, fortunately, we are not in the same situation as we were at the beginning of the pandemic. We have some measures taken, we have vaccinations carried out. That's what's been used to alleviate the situation. Obviously, we are still in a pandemic, and we cannot lower our guard; we have to continue to take action, because, although we are better off, the risk of infection is still there and can generate other outbreaks, etc. That's a reality. But action is being taken. The problem is that... and that you want to do from the beginning, and you've been changing the name, "we're going to ask for a paper," and I've already said, "we're going to put..."; you don't want to call it on the research committee initiative; you call it a study, because it seems like what I want is something good, I've already said it, but I don't want that, what I want is for an investigation to be opened, for responsibilities to be asked, etc. The need for revision, of course, I believe we all share it; if that is something we share it – I believe – all parliamentary groups. What is it, what is in the debate at the end: who has to do that review. You are saying from the beginning that this revision must be carried out from this Basque Parliament. They looked for the way of the paper, they are now looking for a study commission, which is actually an investigation, but let it be done here... No, what we are saying is that the Basque Government is carrying out that review and is giving that participation; it is not leaving different groups affected by this situation without participation; that participation is being given. But it is up to the Basque Government to carry out this review, and you are wrong to try to make that review from the Basque Parliament from the beginning. And that's the only difference between us, the need for revision. Well, we all agree... Where is the question?, in which you call for it to be done in a way, for Parliament to do this work, and we have said that, not from the beginning, we believe that it is up to the Basque Government to carry out this review, both of the situation of residences and of what model we want in the future. In this review, of course, the various groups concerned will be counted and will be involved, and we already have a commitment under our government agreement to carry out a review of the whole care model. That, then, was already in our government agreement from the beginning; it was one of our concerns, and indeed that is going to happen. And Mrs González, in the need for a public care system, we all agree; it is not only you or your group who consider that this public care system is important, it is that in this autonomous community that we have had it very clear, not since now after the pandemic; we have had it very clear from time to time, and we have had a system of public protection, of public services that... of course, everything is improveable, we have our tools, we are also trying to improve them in our public services, through Income Guarantee Income, etc., etc. But we have had and have always had a system of protection that is greater than that which many other autonomous communities have. For us, it has always been a priority, and it will continue to be, and we will continue to work on that line; the only difference in this substance of the question is who is carrying out that review, and we have made it very clear from the beginning. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u52	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not going to tell you the sound and the voice you're going to use, but you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not going to tell you the sound and the voice you're going to use, but you don't tell me either. Besides, you've come in with our style when you first speak. And we will be faithful to our style, because our personality is there too. And in the second place, you've got our moral decency, political and so on, right? Watch out for 180,000 people, see if we don't deserve our time. And what I think is, here, using pandemi or pandemy, as you have been using it all this time, for social services and so many other farms, eh? That's a great political indecency. And besides, you're lying about it. Because here, when you're introduced here, there's no mention of the researcher. There's no mention of a researcher here! Here it is mentioned, "let him create a special system of education, to examine the material, functional, and the aspects of the workers, the establishment centers of the EAE age." And this is founded, and here it says expressly, in article 62.2, and there is an inquiry step in article 60. Then if you're going to give me a cyabga, I don't know how strict you are, that's another matter. But here, what you ask is not a committee of inquiry, what you ask here is an examination committee. I don't know if it's ever been done in this house, but that's what you do. Foreign judge is not something that can't be done, not at all. But we are apt to think that I have made it clear in the first discussion, that it is not fitting, and seems to us that we have enough internal mechanism. And then, well, you haven't received any documents, you've had that document for a long time. It's only to be seen that in November the chief of the Artola generous department was linked with a leak from the draft of this document. By the way, one of the most shameful I've ever seen. Mrs Gonzalez, I think sometimes we should take care of, should we take care of, eh?, say that the care given in the residences is not a worthy care; I have already told you before what that representative of Medicusmundi said. Eta, that's her, that's her, that's her, that's her, that's her, that's her, that's her, that's her, that's her, that's her, that's her, that's her, that's her, that's her, Horixe, eta zuek, zuenean. Baina kontua da ogia erretzea eta banatzea, éta zuk ez deritzozue inoiz egoki denik, zeuek exacten duzuen bezala eta zeuen labean erretzen ez bada. Eta hori arazo bat yes. Eta hori was a matchmaker's bear. Didazu Snake, where are the...? Hey... What did you say... the partisan interest? Party interest? Do you believe that, with all the agents I mentioned in my first intervention, you believe that the workers of residences, family members, users, trade unions and others, that good, because the list is long, do you think we have so many? Yes, yes, here are the present. Do you believe, do you believe... that they are like us? Do you think so? Because you've made a... In his first speech he also praised the agreement, and why we did not reach agreements. Well, maybe if he stopped playing cane for some other group, and got close to talking and talking, we'd still get more deals. He said what we would do if we were in the opposition. Well, I don't know, but I can imagine what you would do if you were in the government; that is, quite a lot less than what you preach for others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u55	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. The discussion's over and we're gonna vote for EH Collect and we're together with the middle-direction that Podemos Anzus has signed. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 41; the votes given, 74; the parties on the side 26; the contrary, 42; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u56	So it's not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the full correction of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudads. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 41; the votes given, 74; the supporters 7; the contrary, 41; the abstations, 26; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-06-03.u57	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was twelve o'clock in the morning and forty-five.
