ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u0	Good morning, everyone. I'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, I remember that 31 lords and ladies have inherited the vote. First point in theme list: "Mutation, introduced together by David Soso Rodríguz, members of the Podemos-IU team, about the mechanism of avoiding the rootage of strategic firms. Discipline and final resolution. The caller's turn, Mr. Soso, representing the Podemos-IU team, has the word to present himself and get rid of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u1	Eskerrik asko. Egun on, Mr. lehendakari, Mr. Councillors, Councillors. A ghost roams Euskadi, a ghost of millions of euros surplus, a ghost with many names, but few faces: BlackRock, Blackstone, Amber Capital, the real estate funds Elandis and a long et cetera. The ghost of past deregulation. And this ghost seeks only one thing: short-term profitability, cheap buying, decapitalizing and expensive selling. They plan in circles waiting for the perfect moment to jump over their prey: dwellings in the historic or expansional helmets of the cities, concessions of infrastructures, hotels, protected dwellings that return to the free market and also profitable companies that are strategic for the development of the country's future. This is what cities, towns, businesses and citizens of the middle world are facing today, a product of a deregulation process for decades and successive systemic crises. The volume of global financial assets has increased from $56 billion in 1990 to $219 billion in 2010. In 2017 the total value of global trade was the largest in history to date, 17.88 billion dollars a year. Foreign exchange transactions, for example, only part of the global financial assets, reached $5.1 trillion a day. Thus, the shadow banking, as it is often called, to which the tragically famous vulture funds belong, represents, of these amounts that I mentioned, 160 billion dollars worldwide, almost half of the total 340 billion dollars of financial assets worldwide. That is, most of the money that circulates on a financial level right now on the planet is speculative. Transactions have increased by the same proportion, as have financial products and their complexity. The securitisation processes have allowed the creation of assets based on future profitability of almost any service activity, real estate assets, intangible assets. We are at a stage of funded capitalism where the funds that manage the portfolios of the largest fortunes and banks, far from creating new industry, are limited to milking the existing industry, decapitalizing companies to maximize cash flows in the short term. This is an undeniable reality, but not an irreplaceable one. You, the groups that support the Government, have endeavoured to make citizens believe that these processes are natural and inexorable, something like a meteorological phenomenon, but they simply do not. This phenomenon that I have described in the first part of my speech is but the result of policies that you where you have been represented have dedicated yourselves to encouraging and instigating and which you now accept as absolute and irremovable truth. Economist Mazzucate, who has recently been hired by her colleagues in the Bizkaia Provincial Council, warns us that the protagonism of U.S. venture capital is oversized. Large venture capital investment operations are carried out in companies that are less than two years away from the market, often in transactions with a strong speculative component, such as mergers, acquisitions and leveraged operations that leave companies over-indebted and with escalated operating structures. The purpose of these operations is to achieve a leap in the value of the stock exchange, not to provide new funds for the development of innovation and then to sell. We and we from Elkarrekin Podemos-IU believe that what has been created by politics must also be tackled politically. It is clear that much of this stalemate – it can hardly be described in any other way – has to be resolved in other instances, mainly at European level. But here, in the house of Basque sovereignty, it is up to us to do what is necessary, within our competitive framework but with absolute firmness, to defend the common interests of the citizenry and the country. In this sense, from the terrible precedent that we believe is the case with Euskaltel and also, with equal gravity, what happened with the liquidation of the industrial portfolios of Kutxabank, our group, as a result of these circumstances, presents this initiative aimed at exploring decisively mechanisms to avoid the entry of speculative capital of any kind into companies that, because of their relevance in the productive fabric, in employment, or because they belong to a sector of the future, are strategic for the country. In this regard, we believe that two mechanisms should be explored. On the one hand, taking into account the situation of absolute exceptionality that the pandemic opened, but which we do not know when it will end, we believe that a regulatory mechanism is necessary to allow intervention in the event that strategic companies run the risk of being acquired by these types of agents or vultures. It is essential for this House to express its unequivocal will to study, promote and work towards this goal, exploring the mechanisms that are necessary to prevent the loss of roots, quality or control in sectors or companies that are decisive for the future of this country. Thus, on the basis of this conviction, we believe that we should explore the framework created by the Government of Spain on the basis of the suspension of foreign investment by investors resident in countries outside the European Union and the European Free Trade Association. This is in the area of regulation and with all the prudence that requires regulation that we are aware that it is delicate. On the other hand, this may be even more relevant, Euskadi needs mechanisms to capitalise on the challenges ahead, to deal with this phenomenon, but also to continue to boost and develop its productive capacity for innovation and technological development. There will be no ecological and energy transition without public investment capacity. There will be no change in the productive matrix or the development of new sectors without public investment capacity. And, above all, there will be no society that leaves no one behind, while still taking its place in the world, without public investment capacity. Therefore, to the tax reform that ends with the pluto-government for a few, to the increase in public investment and spending on the hiring of employees of Osakidetza, of Education and of all areas of the Administration, it has to accompany, as one of the main tools for the productive development and care of our business fabric, a public bank. It has been shown that the mechanisms deployed by the Basque Government in the field of investment, instruments and capital funds have failed, not only because of the figures, which are laughable at such a scenario, but because of the bloody destruction of employment that we live in. We need a determined industrial policy intervention that has the best instrument that can be used to capitalise on companies, ensure that they are rooted and that they are, at least in part, also governed by the common interest and by the country's interest. Over the past few years, he has been betting on venture capital or investment funds, in an attempt to emulate the US model. But we lack a minimally powerful web of venture capital companies, which they do only recycle surpluses obtained in historical years, but do not have the capacity to generate new funds for investment. In Euskadi there are only a few funds, such as Talde or ABE, that fund that has only made an investment in León since it was created in 2019. Moreover, with figures which, as I said, seem to us to be laughable, EUR 300 million. A review of the profitability of the investments made by these entities shows a rather painful history. On the other hand, with the excuse of Basel III and the new international financial regulation, Kutxabank has withdrawn, one by one, from all strategic investments in the country, CAF and Iberdrola, among others. Kutxabank's industrial portfolio has been halved in the two-year life of the institution created after the merger of the Basque banks and the bank's investment in these companies has been reduced by about a third. Kutxabank has reduced its portfolio of industrial holdings to less than 1 billion, four times less than in 2012. It is far from the competence of the Basque Government to regulate banking and design the Basel III rules, but this disincentive to the industrial portfolio is perverse, because it destroys the industrial fabric and these portfolios can give a lot of profitability to the bank. In the current situation it is not worth pulling old formulas or repeating, as they usually do here, that it is a very competitive environment, which are the trends of sectors and industries, etc. I already told Mrs Tapia in the interpellation, it is up to her to lead and intervene in the private sector. Unfortunately, we know that this will not be the case, because it is not only that you refuse to intervene in the private sector, but rather the other way around, that you are delegating more services, more functions and now also more decisions to the private sector, to the great consultants of the party or international. From Elkarrekin We can't rest until we reverse those logics. No one in the global consensus denies this need, that of decisively intervening in the economy, leading the recovery and also making new fiscal arrangements. That is why today we are bringing back an initiative that thinks of that key. We once again urge the Basque Government to work towards this goal: to expand the capacity of the Basque Institute of Finance and to make it a real tool to match the circumstances, a public bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u2	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Casanova, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u3	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. When I listened together to the representative of Podemus, especially the first part, which seemed to me a very strict and appropriate description around the stock papers, and I thought of a phrase which I had just heard recently, namely Arnuldo Ocera. He would say: "Oh, well, there's... que crier." Reality is crude, but reality is not immovable. And we are not here to be witnesses of reality or to be grades of reality, but to be changers of reality. We're not here to content ourselves. We're not here to figure out what's coming from outside, like it's unmoveable. We're here to do politics and politics. And to do politics and to make different politics in this respect is not only convenient, but indispensable, if we don't prevent what's happening and what's happening, what's happening, what's happening, what's happening, what's going to happen. Euscalel's been the beginning of the motion today. If Euscalel is the paradigm of the theme we're talking about today. A Basque Company, created with public funds, created by public purposes, has suffered a wild process of privatization, until it has passed into the hands of speculators in Jersey who have a public residence. We've lost our company, lost our technological component, lost our shooting, lost a tool to face the technological revolution above us with its own resources. But it's not the only case. Another one, who's been playing ballbolo lately, belongs to the ITP company. Once, with La Naval, I mentioned the play at Godot Samuel Beckette. Now, I think it's from Pirandello, Seibei's busca de self-car. There's a company here with the busca de comprador, the company's vasca en busca de comprador vasco. And we can't and can't, and we can't, and what difficulties! First of all, we have to remember that this company had eascal capital originally, but that's lost, and now we're going to pay the price of what we've lost and we're going to get it back if we can get what we sold in time. We can't go on like this. And check out there are different elements on ITP. On the one hand, it's a strategic company, which makes it easier to block the entrance to the outside operators. In like manner, the sector of aeronautics is in the midst of a great reorganized reorganization, and it is necessary that the public leadership, the public commander of the euplacals, should avoid the loss of that sector, and be able to keep the decisions and corporations within the Basque territories. But we can't. We've lost Basque. We don't know what's going to happen to ITP. We know what happened with Ibermátic. We know what happened with other companies, and maybe they've got another dimension or some companies that play a different league, but they've once had an euccanic origin. I think of the Ibermátics, etc., etc., etc., etc. And you have to face this because it's important to guarantee the romance of that company. Rolling is not a symbolic matter. It has nothing to do with patriotism or emotions. The shooting of a company brings benefits to society. This is where the market creates them. It facilitates the preliminary process of investments, in order to make investments here, wealth, investigation, development, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. So we think it's important to organize and reorganize what we have, to face this challenge, not to lose euscal companies, and to get back as far as possible. And we think this process has to have three axes. First, public funds. That's where we've fixed the fund. I'm not playing the irony because we know that our representative of PP is the first time he's spoken of this matter, but we've been telling him for years about the fund, since it was announced in 2016. Last week, when the Euskalel Moment was making a joke, he gave her a legal character. And a famous journalist said it was a tactical move to pretend he was doing something against the opposition. But today, since this fund has been announced, it's been six years and the fund hasn't been established, that fund doesn't exist. And in all this process, we haven't had that tool in all the moves that have been made for the past six years. There's been some partial investments, but by nature it doesn't exist in the right way. We believe that it's time for us to re-equivocally this fund of demand, and also for the use of transparency and dialogue, with a sufficient economic resources and an inevitable principle that social interests will be guaranteed. When this fund is founded, we think it will be necessary to reorganize and to build a standard around the entire system of funds, which does not mean that everything has been done wrong, but it is a point of reflex, and we must consider all the equipment. In fact, there are other funds, some of them are financial funds, so they have some goals and these investments are short-term, but they have to be examined. We must consider the public participation and the participation of the workmen, because the fund activated in enterprises have not produced any results, because they have not been used and so on. Therefore, fix it, fix it, fix it with transparency on the table, but read about the entire system also must be done. Maybe we need other tools, too. There's a thing in the Spanish state called Fond-ICO that's not a fund in the Tutera, and that's why it's in the fondico. Fond-ICO is ICO's stock to invest in funds. And we need to plant these to create funds, and to make investments not only directly in business, but with other investment funds to activate and get the savings of Euscal; We sow investments to prevent them from dependence on those international speculative capitals. And maybe we should discuss EPSV for once. But to argue about EPSV's papers is the chief of the world. I'm looking at you because I'm in front of you and because you know a lot about this thing, it's not like Emilian or Azuas or Azuas. Discussion, a conversation is activated with all the sectors that have influence, with the unions, partly or partially owned by those savings, to activate a deal for them also. There are also productive Euscal investments, partly knowing that certain guarantees and certain things cannot be touched. But profitable investments and security can also be made from EPSV to strengthen companys and a hundred producers of Basques. And I have mentioned two other elements: to reorganize the system of public funds, and to explore new ways. But I want to mention two other essential elements. Alde battik, Kutxabank. Kutxabank has developed in recent years the biggest industrial disinvestment process in the history of our people. Previously, data have been provided, from 4 billion to 1,000. It's been reduced to a quarter and they've been selling Grandma's jewelry in Kutxabank so they can buy the food, and everyone knows that it doesn't have a tour. In a period of 10 years, not from day to day, in 10 years since the establishment of European regulations that marked limitations on the industrial heritage that banks might have, it has been unable to articulate a system that would prevent this process of disinvestment from involving the entry of speculative capital into the companies from which it came out. And it has not been done, and a holding has not been created, and an active system has not been created by the foundations to acquire part of that capital or of those shares, and neither has the Basque Government been there with a fund, except for more cosmetic punctual operations, that of CAF and that of Kaiku, which in the end do not increase the root, because what they do is to remove the brown from the image to Kutxabank and pass these shares that are in the hands of Basque capital to a public institution, not to Finkatuz, which does not exist, but to the Basque Institute of Finance. We must say, then, that he must answer to the original aims of his originals and boxes. The banker services must be advanced in a certain manner, both to the population and to the corporation. And we cannot allow ourselves to continue in thisarchy, as he has hitherto done, because it has had serious consequences. I repeat: romance is not sentimentalism. Or our stocks are in the hands of responsible companies, and our companies' shares, or the funds that they want to earn as much money as they can in a short time. And the procedures, the habits and modes of working, and the decisions of making investments, are not in one or the other cases. Finally, with the paper of public funds and the Arkbanks, we are here to proclaim the necessity of public banking. And maybe someone will say that's communism. But special communism, because in the Spanish Common-wealth there is a public bank, a public bank of ICO. And in other states of Europe there is a public bank. And we think that we have to deal with this road to finance a bank like any other bank that will have rights in front of the Central Bank. That way you don't have to invest public money directly in that bank. And with that money that gets it, we can make active loans and credit policies to promote a hundred producers. But what's happening here is we're stopping behind. The Government of the United States has already advanced this government from the left, when it speaks of public investments, to activate the incentives, to increase the taxes to the rich, and so on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u4	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u5	Finally, we ask that we be conscious of the dimensions of the problem, because it's time, and that we need to choose different tools to deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u6	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u7	Thank you, President. Vicelehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Look, the root of strategic enterprises in Euskadi is not a debate either new or distant in time in this Parliament. The root of businesses in Euskadi is something that has been working for a long time, both in the political sphere and in institutional management, both in municipalities and in outlaws, and also on the part of the Basque Government. To frame the business roots and avoid the relocation of the companies established in Euskadi does not need to focus on a purely economic and financial intervention, because we are talking about something more complex, multi-sectoral and global. We live in a globalized world in which cross-border cross-investment, task location and ownership changes and the use of information technologies also make business competitiveness a global dimension. Companies are subject to a constantly evolving environment with open markets, logistics and technologies constantly in the process of innovation and increasing competition. Therefore, in this context, the company must be able to meet the needs of its customers more effectively than its competitors, also providing them with more interesting goods and services. For the fight against relocation to have positive effects, it is necessary to carry out new business strategies that give the product an added value, strategies based on quality, in the continuous improvement of products through investment in R & D+I, in the improvement of the training of the workforce, in order to generate more specialized personnel, more trained for sectors of greater technological intensity. And, no doubt, using financial policy in favour of employment, economic recovery, entrepreneurship, innovation and social cohesion is of particular importance now. Hence the commitment expressed by the Finance Advisor when he explained to us the strategic lines of the department, referring to the bill indicated in the legislative calendar to regulate, in a definitive way, the Basque Institute of Finance, in order to be able to have an autonomous regulation that promotes the emergence of a public funding entity in the service of public policies and corporate participation in synergy with industrial, business and corporate instruments. It's more than a desideratum, it's starting to be a compromise. And in the past parliamentary term, the Basque Government, by an agreement of this House, initiated a path of recognition and reorganisation of these financial instruments, something that is called for in the compromise amendment, which I have seen has come to us now, both for the general administration and for the institutional. And we were a pioneer administration in terms of business participation policy, with the acquisition of equity shares that sought to root out strategic companies in Euskadi to maintain and develop the Basque productive fabric. The pandemic disrupted planned planning in 2020. But not only has the Basque Finance Institute been given the opportunity to further develop this strategy, but the Governing Council has already approved, on 13 April, the creation of a company with a capital of 160 million, which will manage that Finkatuz fund, with an extension of up to 300 million euros, aimed at the acquisition and management of financial participations in large companies in Euskadi, in order to ensure that they maintain their roots and thus exert a tractor effect on the Basque fabric. Thus, this Basque Institute of Finance will be able to make available to the new public company shares, shares in the capital of commercial companies, preferential subscription rights, bonds, credits and any other similar right of ownership, taking into account investment criteria and the principles of performance laid down in its statutes. Something very similar to what happens with the ICO; they are very suitable tools, at least for the purposes you propose in your initiative. And you propose that you coordinate with the Government of Spain in the implementation of Royal Decree Law 8/2020 of 17 March, further extended by Royal Decree Law 34 of 17 November, to identify the companies to which the regime of suspension of foreign investments in Spain applies. In fact, both initiatives, both those of extraordinary urgent measures to deal with the economic and social impact of COVID and those of urgent measures to support business solvency, the energy sector and tax matters, with effect from 30 June, are intended to increase and extend administrative controls prior to certain foreign investments in Spanish companies, in order to protect strategic sectors of the economy and prevent foreign investors from taking advantage of the situation of vulnerability to acquire Spanish companies. Foreign investments subject to this administrative control mechanism that are carried out without the mandatory authorization shall be invalid and have legal effects and fines may be imposed up to the amount of the investment made. Foreign investment in Spanish companies is key to development, particularly in the sectors of greater innovation and added value. And a significant part of that investment comes from outside the European Union, in particular from the United States and, after Brexit, also from the United Kingdom. Look, there is news today that I believe is important and that should at least be reflected in this House. Brussels calls for more powers to contain the arrival of subsidised companies. What a year ago was a project of work today becomes a regulation that essentially articulates a tool to shield the essential infrastructures and large European strategic companies against foreign investments that have public support in their countries of origin. A traffic light that stands up thinking about China, which for years has been deploying an investment network, which has allowed it to take place with tyre companies, airlines, airports, seaports, wind turbine plants and even football equipment. But there is also the United Kingdom at the point of view. And the mistrust with Boris Johnson, because, despite renouncing it in the Brexit agreement, he could open his hand to billionaire aid so that British firms could compete in better conditions. It is only now that the 27 and the European Chamber have to agree on this regulation, which is a first step, I believe, very important to what Mr Soto wanted to put to us on his initiative. That is why, after examining your proposal, Mr Soto, the original initiative, in its three aspects, we Socialists have tabled an amendment jointly with the Basque Nationalist Group, in which we urge the Government to work in three areas and with the following tools. With regard to the Basque Institute of Finance, we intend to analyse and, in collaboration with the various economic actors, identify, identify and prioritize the sectors and tractor companies, so that, in compliance with the requirements of the Finkatuz fund, participations can be taken to ensure this business roots. On the other hand, we advocate or intend, rather, that the Basque Government create a system of competitiveness, an ecosystem of competitiveness that strengthens investments in industry, science, technology and research, in collaboration with the private sector, through aid, so that we can respond to the needs of our companies, so that they can develop and develop in this competitive ecosystem. Thirdly, within the framework of this competitiveness ecosystem, it is more necessary than ever to train R & D professionals both in universities and in the field of vocational training, in order to ensure that companies have this important value, which is talent, which the Basque Socialists consider to be a determining factor for the rooting of companies in the Basque Country. The Basque Socialists think that Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, in his initiative, bases the maintenance of the root, almost exclusively, if not exclusively, on the existence of a legal mechanism that prevents the entry of foreign capital into our companies. And we believe that this is not the way to root. First, because business activity in Euskadi and the world is in an increasingly global environment, an environment in which corporate operations happen, changes in ownership structure. And these transactions between private companies, by their own characteristics, are born of the will of the parties, and contextualize in the private sphere of the management of the companies. That is why we share with the Basque Government the need to create a Basque economic, technological and social ecosystem that will allow us to deepen the roots of Basque companies and tractor companies, so that SMEs and micro-SMEs, which characterize our industrial fabric, can benefit. Without a doubt, the orientation of the Government's work to maintain the roots of strategic enterprises, but also to help and accompany SMEs and micro-enterprises facing these structural changes of the three planned transformations, for their growth in the economic, technological and social ecosystem and for their consolidation, is not a minor task for this economic revival that needs to take place shortly and to which we are, of course, committed by the Basque Socialists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mrs. Wide, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good morning to all of you. Mr. Soso, I think the initiative we're discussing today has good intentions. To ensure that they are engaged in this country, and to help these companies in adaptations, innovations, and international development processes, is on the basis of our party, and also on the basis of the most beautiful industry and finances that this Eucommy develops. "I'm a gentleman and I'm proud of it." That'll probably sound familiar to a lot of people, and if I say it singing, I'm sure you know it better. And I am sure that all of us who are present, who are euphorants by birth or adoption, are ours, that we are eroscal, and proud of being euphoric. We want to be born or raised, live, develop, and die there. We want to work in love, feeling, and improving our country. These are the feelings of a person who has a romance or rootes over a people. But in order that this attachment should happen, we ought to live in it with pleasure, and feel at ease. And that's why we ask our country a few minimum. For example, we want the family around. For us, the close family is important because we're a society where we like to be close to family love and support. We want a few minimum services: public services, which place men in the centre, such as health or education. We want a job. We want to be able to work, some of us want to work in public, others in private. And we want a proper formation to develop it. We want at least one degree of well-being: we want suitable public structures, such as the public or private housing parks, suitable roads, public transports, clean and able villages, well fitted and equipped, which offer many services, such as local trade, large sports, and leisure spots. We want a environment that will offer us stability. And if we don't, if we don't get those minimum, then we'll probably go somewhere else, looking for a better future. And now I'm offering you an exercise. We have transferred all the above to the companies. The Basque or Basque being, a Basque company: may be born out of this country's enterprise or born out of it, but because of its expansion it has grown in Euskadi. The enterprising sector has always had the support of the Basque institutions, which will be reinforced by the plan approved last week in the Governing Council, PIE plan (Interinstitutional Entrepreneurship Plan 2024), with a direct investment of 259 million euros and 130 million additional for all stages of the entrepreneurial process. A country plan in public-private and inter-agency collaboration. Family. The family of companies would be the industrial sector, the network of technology companies, clusters. And, within the families, the ones that have normally been pulled out of the car in Euskadi are the mistresses. And if we talk about the midwives in the business world, they'd be the tractor companies. Tractor companies that create wealth and employment in our country. Companies that collaborate with each other, with their assistants, with public and private institutions, with different socio-economic agents of our society, generating added value for Euskadi. Those who bear the name of our country to international markets, and are the mark of the good doing of thousands and thousands of our companies and professionals. Companies we want to keep in Euskadi. To that end, we are proposing our first point in the amendment, which, as Mrs Corcuera has already read, I will not repeat. But it must be said that this Government has had it in mind from the outset, and it has taken it into account in its Government programme. Commitment 14, initiative 8: "Promote the development of strategic industrial projects that favour the rooting in Euskadi of industrial activity and attraction of the new business project". E initiative 11 of the same commitment: "Enlarge the funding of the Finkatuz fund to ensure the roots of Basque tractor companies and their dynamic effect on our economy". And in order to manage the Finkatuz fund we have a new tool, the public society Finkatze Kapitala Finkatuz SA, with a share capital of 160 million euros, expandable to 300 million during the legislature, and whose social objective is the acquisition, disposal and management of long-term financial holdings in large companies in Euskadi, to ensure that they maintain their roots and exercise a tractor character. Infrastructure. We would say that it is those both public and private that make our coexistence easier and more comfortable, that create a sustainable environment, that make us the simplest day to day. Those that allow us to reach different places on this planet and make us enjoy it, accompanied by public services that are travel companions in our day-to-day, and guide and help in times of greatest need. When we talk about infrastructure for companies, we mean the ecosystem where they are born, located, grown and lived. In order to obtain the romance of our troops, it is indispensable that they should have a proper ecosystem to develop their activity, which will offer stability, which will have innovations well equipped with technological skill, and a competitive system which will satisfy their wants. This has been the case in which the government has spent many years creating a network for euscal science, technology, and innovation, and the combination of private public institutions has been indispensable to that. But to continue in this global and competitive world to-day, the construction and improvement of this network cannot be broken, and we must continue working on it. And this is what we receive at the second point of our correction: "To help and answer our needs by creating a competitive system for development that will strengthen the investments in industry, in industry, in technology, and in study, in private sector." The plan to promote science, technology, and development by Euskawa Plana 2030 in February, research, development, and innovation. Euscalia is a plan to help us to improve competitiveness and increase in the course of the bearable growth, a plan that will strengthen the investment of science, technology, and research. The plan that will help us achieve the correct ecosystem that will allow the shooting of our troops. This same week, the Council of Government has also accepted the support program with Section 5.313.631 eurocture to continue to respond to the socienomenal challenges of the Basque Autonomical to science and technology. Talent, I spoke at the beginning of the option of working in the public or private sector, and this is only achieved if there are both options. New synergies will emerge from their collaboration to meet the challenges of the future. For this we need to be trained, we need to be prepared to be able to face these new situations that will come to us, those situations that will require us to be trained and trained to face any adversity or to be able to react to new circumstances. We need qualified R & D professionals to develop a country with and for the future. And to this question refers our third point: "To continue with the training of R & D professionals in universities and Basque vocational trainings, so that companies have the Basque talent trained in this field, and to continue to work on creating the appropriate ecosystem for the competitiveness of companies, so as to guarantee their root in Basque". All this means to have a multi-disciplined system for our companies. A set of professionals, services, finances, networks, infrastructure, helps, and so on, which will enable and facilitate the shooting of our troops. For it is necessary to maintain from Euskka a significant industrial network, which will be able to spread or extend itself to the whole world, to wager in favor of the improvement of productive activity, as well as in favor of the innovation and valuation of human resources. Euscal Autonomia will enable him to place himself among the countries of Europe which are most advanced in innovation. To improve our view, the level of life, and the quality of employment. That strategy is to be made in the neighborhood together with public institutions, corporations, universitys, research centres, technology centres, and social operatings. If it offers a stable, secure, competitive environment for people and corporations, it'll be attractive. The company will be able to shoot people, and I'm an Euscalite and I'm proud of it, and we'll get it spread around the world. To conclude, I would like to add a question to the groups that have signed the medium. One of the problems that we could not disagree has been the public bank, and Mr. Soso has explained what it was for. He has explained the public bank for what purpose, but why a public bank? Why is it necessary to shoot a public bank? That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Passing over to the uncorrected teams, Mistto, Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u11	Thank you, Madam President. From Vox we believe that it is necessary for the national economy to maintain the roots of companies, especially strategic ones. Obviously, yes, but the way to do it that Podemos proposes would lead us to an industrial desert. The first point of the motion is simply a nonsense whose only purpose is to involve private companies and make them public, a common approach in all their policies. A few weeks ago we were discussing in this plenary how a strategic company has been acquired by US funds, Euskaltel. The main reason why the Basque Government welcomed this operation is that the result of a conversion from public bank to private bank needed to make cash and Kutxabank prioritized its accounts in the general interest of a company's roots. But there is something else, bringing to this Parliament the creation of a public banking instrument is a temerity. The mix of politics and banking always gives the same result: corruption without palliatives, megalomaniac projects financed, in addition, with public money that end in bankruptcy, and all this directed by grateful stomachs on the boards of directors by quota of each party that know nothing about banking; in short, corruption and poverty. Twenty savings banks have faced corruption trials. There have been no isolated cases. The leaders of several public banks face trials for corruption and unfair administration, salary increases in the midst of crisis, dubious risk operations, always favoring friendly entrepreneurs, credits to management companies, and we could follow because the list is endless. The formula for strategic companies to maintain their roots in Spain is much simpler: that their profits are dedicated to strengthening the business project and not to filling the government's coffers through taxes, to letting them work without external interference, to making the State a facilitator and not an obstacle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u12	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, from the origin of the motion I understand that this proposal that Mr Soto brings us today aims to prevent future situations such as the sale of Euskaltel to MásMovil; it is clear that this proposal arises from it. It is therefore a proposal that I would call a rear-view proposal, i.e. a proposal looking back to try to avoid situations that no longer have a remedy. Well, there's one thing I really like about the proposal, and it's that it underlies a certain business support fund, and I think that's good for the Basque economy, for Basque families and for employment. Another thing is whether or not we agree exactly on how these companies should be supported. Finally, we are not going to repeat the arguments that we said in this very forum last week, we are not going to repeat the debate on this issue, but I do think we should remember that, in our view, neither the Basque Government nor this Parliament should interfere with the operations that take place between private companies, as is the case. That's what we said last week. We believe that the Basque Government has neither to favour them nor to avoid them or to put them in harm's way, regardless of the history that has brought each of these companies here. But, in fact, I understand that the fund of the initiative goes further and aims to prevent certain holdings in public enterprises considered strategic being sold and controlled by other types of interests. Well, that will not happen in any case, if the owner of those public actions, which may be the Basque Government, does not authorize it, or even if Parliament, as in the case of Euskaltel, does not authorize such a sale. Therefore, it is not necessary, I understand, to put more limitations on this, and if it is updated and approved it will be because there are, I understand, good reasons for it. So the initiative in general seems to us to make little sense, little use. We would like it to be more of a telescope-type initiative, more of looking towards the future, more of looking in the long term rather than an initiative, as I said before, a rear-view mirror. But it seems to us that we should discuss Mr Soto's proposals, because he proposes three rather heterogeneous mechanisms, which, although they were approved, I do not think they would be able to avoid these situations, because they are three ideas that are not really at the root of the problem, but let us look at them more slowly. Firstly, they propose the creation of a Basque public bank. And when we ask ourselves why and why, we find in the proposal a reason, Mr Soto says: "so that you can grant loans and take shares of industrial enterprises". That's what he says about it. Well, we, in principle, think that the creation of a Basque public bank makes no sense. Firstly, because, as we all know, we are in a gradual process of centralisation and banking concentration in Europe, and this idea is in the very opposite direction. In other words, the Banco de España itself is losing important competences, for example, in monetary policy vis-à-vis the European Bank, and it would therefore make no sense for each region to have a different public bank. Secondly, because for those purposes declared by the initiative we already have tools in the Basque Country. We have, indeed, Finkatuz and we have the Basque Institute of Finance itself, which in the initiative proposes to turn it into a bank, and we do not understand very well why, if it already does those functions, and it has it expressly in its statutes. There is no need for reform in order for the Basque Institute of Finance to do this which Mr Soto says, that is, to grant loans and take part in industrial enterprises; therefore, we do not see the need for this. But let us also talk about Finkatuz, the other instrument we have in Euskadi for this issue. 300 million seems to be available for this purpose and, indeed, it has not yet started working, but we hope that it will start working soon, so we do not understand any need to create another mechanism in this regard either. In the proposal you have signed, in the compromise you have signed, you propose to extend this allocation. Well, it may be, it may be insufficient, but up to how much, and why, and what's the figure. And if this hasn't been spent yet, why extend it? And why did you not submit an amendment to the budgets in this respect? There was none about it; now it's a little late for these things. Secondly, you propose that the Basque Government establish coordination mechanisms with the Spanish Government to identify those companies on which a suspension of foreign investment is applied. This regime makes sense at a time like the pandemic, to effectively protect hostile OPA companies. But what I do not understand, Mr Soto, is that you ask when your party is in the Government of Spain. You are asking the Basque Government to urge the Government of Spain. Do it directly, you're supposed to. You are on the Council of Ministers, your party is on the Council of Ministers. I do not understand that you are not coordinating on this or that perhaps this proposal in Madrid would not be well understood by your colleagues. I don't know what's the reason this revelry is made that I don't just understand. And so does Bildu, who are partners in the Spanish Government, because what they can do is actually propose to their partners to do what is right. And, on the other hand, what I was concerned about reading your proposal, Mr Soto, is: why do you want the Basque Government to have that information? That is, why do you want the Basque Government to have the information on which companies a foreign investment suspension regime is applied? For what purpose? What do you think you can do with that information or what you want the Basque Government to do or not to do about it? If a company has been the object of an attempt to purchase, what it simply means is that it is an interesting and competitive company, which is good news for everyone. And indeed, there are laws that prevent the pandemic from producing situations that nobody wants. Well, that's it, we don't all need to know what those attempts are. I don't know, I don't quite understand what the ultimate goal of the matter is. That is to say, we believe that this proposal does not make any sense either. And the third part of his motion proposes measures to avoid speculative capital inflows into Basque strategic enterprises. I guess that's what you call venture capital funds, because we know that they consider them agents of evil, an instrument of the infernal judeomasonic and neoliberal conspiracy that pursues the destruction of the working class or something like that. Anyway, everyone is free of suggestions, to me theirs seem a little old, but it seems to me very good that you can defend them with total freedom. What I can tell you is that venture capital instruments are financial instruments that are regulated by law in the Basque Country, Spain, Europe and the rest of the world. If that regulation does not seem sufficient to us, it does not seem appropriate to us, you propose legislative amendments to it, but while those funds comply with the law, the only thing we are allowing is a fundamental freedom, which is freedom of investment or freedom of capital. On the other hand, if this motion were to go ahead and the Basque Government made the mistake of avoiding the entry of venture capital funds into companies, when deemed appropriate and desirable, we would be depriving those companies of a first-class financial instrument which, in certain situations, may even be vital to the development or viability of certain companies. In other words, companies rely on short-, medium- and long-term capital for their different treasury needs. And, indeed, the market has credits, the bank can grant short-term, medium-term and long-term credits, just as, in fact, venture capital funds can be used to solve certain situations, where it may be necessary. That is, in no case does anyone force investment or any situation in which venture capital funds have to take part, at all. That is why, Mr Soto, none of the three proposals that you make seem to us to make sense, so we are going to vote against your proposal. We do not think that these proposals are sensible or appropriate or good for Euskadi. With regard to the amendment tabled by the Government, we believe that it has only one objective, which is to stop the initial proposal and, to that end, it proposes to do nothing, to do nothing new. Take shares with Finkatuz, in case they meet the requirements. That is to say, what is already planned, because if it does not meet the requirements, of course, it has nothing to do. To create an ecosystem of competitiveness in collaboration with the private sector, which we find very interesting and which, indeed, is what needs to be done. But in their proposal they contain nothing in particular, with which the proposal remains at nothing. And continue with university education and vocational training. Of course, it's already being done, obviously, we're continuing. There is therefore no concrete proposal. I understand that if the goal is to stop the initiative, that will be achieved, but nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u14	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Passing on the answering shift, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u15	He wondered why a public bank. Answer me: Why does a Development Bank of the State of the Federal Republic of Germany (KfW) have 546 billion shares in German industrial enterprises in its industrial portfolio? For what? Precisely, to do the same, to capitalize with money from a public bank strategic companies of the country. That's what Kutxabank did or what Kutxabank should have done. And over the years, what he has done is lose capitalization in strategic companies in a constant and permanent way. That is, as has been said, from 4 billion to 1 billion. As far as European regulation is concerned, I share everything that the representative of the Socialist Party of Euskadi has mentioned. We are talking about that and we have had an industrial capitalization instrument, such as Kutxabank, or savings banks in its day, and then we have diluted its investment capacity. Finally, it seems to me to be an absolute contradiction that we support the regulation and regulation of controls on the entry of foreign venture capital investments into Europe, as is done at European level and as has been done in the Government of Spain and as should be done, but that, in turn, the instruments of capitalisation proper to the root of public participation in companies are being diluted. On the other hand, the Basque Institute of Finance is linked to Finkatuz. In view of what I mentioned in my first speech regarding the level of capitalization available to foreign investment funds, which are billions, man, it is difficult to compensate for this reality with, basically, 300 million. And from there comes also the need for a public bank. It is difficult for us to achieve a deep-rooted result of the compatibility of this fund with the Institute of Finance with 300 million. We believe that this is not the way and that it will not solve anything. It is going to be, basically, to take out reports regarding the increase in the amount of money in this fund, and then, moreover, it will not be finished running in its entirety. That is to say, the amounts that are integrated into this fund are raised, but will money ever really be used to enter the participation of strategic companies in this country? Because it doesn't happen. Then, on the other hand, we are talking about the ecosystem, I have heard about the issue of the ecosystem to the councilwoman and to the parties that support the Government on countless occasions. Ecosystem, yes, in tax terms, always generating a runway of landing in tax terms for investment funds that we are supposed to control that they do not enter or that they enter to their fair extent. On the other hand, in terms of investment and development, I do not know, of course, with which public university, because the Basque Public University is increasingly underfunded. The only thing that is put on the table is private investment projects which, in our view, the only thing that will be reflected is that there is no public investment model, because, moreover, I have already heard the advisor more than once say that, of course, it is not in the interest of the Basque Government to be the leader of the investment projects that companies should do. I understand that companies have full autonomy to decide what they can investigate. But, of course, it should also be in the interest of the Basque Government to generate investments of general interest, linked with private companies, and from the public sector from which the route should be marked. On the other hand, we believe that the reality of the loss of investment by Kutxabank and the savings banks, and the nullity on the part of the Basque Government and the parties that maintain the same that the institute becomes an instrument of these characteristics, will bring with it that the Basque Government does not have a fundamental tool for rooting. We don't think that with instruments like Finkatuz it's not going to be enough. We sincerely believe that. We believe that instruments of greater capitalization are needed. Of course, if your conversion into a public bank is not addressed from the institute, it will be very complicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u16	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Collect the EH team, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u17	Good morning, again. Well, examples. 36 million cost the land of La Naval. Well, it's not what it cost, it's what it paid for. Best offer, $36 million. A public or public-private company that would have put 36 million on the table today would have the guarantee of an industrial activity in these areas. Euskaltel. 1.5 billion was worth in stock before the OPA; 10%, 150 million; 5%, which is what we asked to buy, 75 million. That 5% plus Kutxabank's contribution, which had 20%; 25%, blocking minority. If we'd gone 10%, 150 million. Ability to have vetoed the OPA. Euskaltel would still be a company under Basque control and Basque root. ITP. 1,000-1.5 billion are at stake. Nor is it proposed that 100 % be purchased by the public, but there will be a public participation. We could be talking about 100 million. That is why we need resources and I am giving concrete examples of what kind of operations can be done, which is not the establishment of communism, but the support and the roots in the country of companies that are important, because telecommunications are important, because the naval sector is important and the Left Margin is important, and because the aeronautical sector is important, which is also involved in a fundamental restructuring process, and we are inert above all this process. Meanwhile, the funds have capacity. It is that Euskaltel Zegona raised us, who were two colleagues with an office, that is, very well related. But we just don't have the capacity to deal with them. Then other funds, those of MásMovil and others, play in another league. But it's just, look, we don't have the ability to deal with either the little ones or the middle ones. The Finkatuz fund, every time I hear Mr. Azpiazu talking about the Finkatuz fund, comes to my head the story of "Pedro and the fund", because someday it will come. But he can't be here every six months saying he's there, because you don't believe him in the end. Someday the bottom will arrive, and there will be the bottom, I hope, I trust there will be the bottom. But this fund has been announced in 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 there is a parenthesis, and in 2021, last week, it has been announced again. And I have nothing against this fund. We have been driving forces, we have reached an agreement with the Government, we said: this is the way, when there is will to do things, here we are. Not to put sticks in the wheels, but to animate, and also to condition and try that background to activate in one direction. If we already have that agreement, that is why we are not signing an agreement with the Government. The agreement on Finkatuz we already have. And the agreement on the criticism of Kutxabank also we have. Signed in this House in the past legislature. Now what's left is to operationalize the agreements. I do not want a collection of signed agreements that are not active instruments so that what is reflected here will then guide government action and have results. We didn't come here to sign papers. We have come to sign agreements that have practical, non-magic effects, because things can be signed that may not be achieved, but at least that from that agreement there is a clear orientation of the Government towards the implementation of those agreements. Because if you don't even see that orientation, then, well, Mrs. Zabala can say that she did, that she agreed on Kutxabank and Finkatuz and so on, but we're not talking about the same thing if there is then no concrete will to comply with the agreement and that's it. When you show that will, there will be new agreements. With regard to what the European Union has done with vetoed foreign investment. Well, it's protected against publicly-owned companies. I would also like to see a veto against tax dumping, for example, and against companies that do not pay corporate taxes or against companies that have slave labour conditions. What you mention is, rather, an attempt to protect yourself against China, because, logically, China is eating us potatoes, and it is doing so from the public, from planning. And you know, I don't know if you're gonna be a football fan, that when a team wins the World Cup, then everyone tries to imitate it. If Brazil wins, everyone plays Tiki-taka. You win Italy, bitch. Well, now he's winning China. China is gaining world economic competition. And he's winning with planning and support for public enterprises. And, timidly, some are beginning to realize. When the European funds arrive, they say: man, we have to do the same, because we are being eaten by our feet. Then they pull out the Next funds, but of course, timidly, because that means a chip change. And you come to the Basque Government and you say: listen, you have to plan certain developments in strategic sectors. And they say, "planning, what is that?". They go where Atutxa and ask him, "Hey, what's this planning thing?". And we don't know how to model the document, we don't know how to translate the document, because we have to go to consultancies, we don't know how to make laws, because we have to go to consultancies. Therefore, there is a timid change in the bell of time. Next funds are an example. It is not only that China is snacking on us, the political decisions that are coming from the United States, ultra and turboliberalism are generating social fractures of such a dimension, such damage to the planet, that those who defend, not the revolution or the transformation of the system, but giving stability to a somewhat more solid capitalist system, are understanding that it is time for the public to regain the leading role in planning and policy design. I used to mention Mazzucate, that the file the Diputation, I wish I read it too and put it into practice. And that's partly what we sold: public design with three legs, with a fund and a fund system, with an appeal to Kutxabank to fulfill its responsibility, and also with a public bank. With a public bank, why? Because Finkatuz has to inject money from the budgets, and then, making a big effort, we have 300 million there. A public bank has other ways of financing and can therefore mobilise much greater resources without drawing them from the budgets and can therefore play in another league without having to remove expenditure from other areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u18	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u19	Yeah. Thank you, President. Let us see, Mr Soto, the position of the Basque Socialists is contrary to the proposal to create a public bank. As the Government of Spain, through President Pedro Sánchez, stated, in September 2020, that the public bank was the ICO, moving away from the initial claims of the United States We can make Bankia the Spanish public bank, in Euskadi we have the Basque Institute of Finance, an agency that once it has the appropriate legal framework announced by the Basque Government can, without limitation, make loans, take shares, participate in other instruments as funds, etc. In addition, with the aim of this uprooting of large companies so that they also exercise their tractor character on SMEs, micro SMEs and on Basque productive tissue. As far as the two royal decrees are concerned, look, in addition to its two-month validity, that it is short in order to be able to carry out that so-called coordination to which you were appealing, it is not a Basque jurisdiction. And you know it. It is true that Germany, France and even Spain have protected their crown jewels during the pandemic, that the Government of Spain, as Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita pointed out, modified the rules governing such foreign investments to prevent unwanted OPAs or that companies even outside the European Union enter strategic sectors taking advantage of this stock market decline that had occurred as a result of the pandemic. But if it were not for the exceptional timing of this health crisis and pandemic, the rules would face the principle of free movement of capital in the European Union and would not even have ten centimeters of travel. I think you are fully aware of that. With regard to the impediment of speculative capital entry. In addition to the step that has been taken, which I believe is important, Mr Casanova – man, it is sometimes difficult to try to recognise it, but I refer to the facts – that Brussels, after a year, should get a regulation, which will have to be negotiated with the 27, which we already know everything that this means, but that it should take this step to avoid the entry of foreign capital into companies subsidized by the countries of origin, it seems to me that it is a relevant fact that we must take into account, each to the extent of their interests. But at least the Basque Socialists wanted to make it clear in today's debate, because it means a step forward and I think it was important. We think that the most effective thing is to work for the maintenance of the root of businesses in Euskadi in a practical way, with plans, with economic policies, with financial policies and, as I said before, generating that competitiveness ecosystem that you, Mr Soto, do not like, produces rash, because you see it all black. But, hey, it's not all black and white. Surely, creating a competitive ecosystem with elements that are key to the development of Basque productive fabric will be important for Euskadi and for Euskadi's citizenship. I don't think you can see the matter in black or white. And you seem to me to have done an exercise today because, indeed, you are totally negating on the issue of the Basque competitiveness ecosystem. Entering into some of the considerations that have been said in the first part of the speeches. Mr. Casanova said: "We have to be aware of the dimension of the problem." Well, does he tell us or does he tell us? Because, of course, to think that the Basque Government or the Basque political parties are not aware of how important it is to root out Basque companies, in addition to strategic companies, because it would be to think that we are in the Worlds of Yupi, that we do not know what a penalty is worth. Well, we do know what a comb is worth, Mr. Casanova. You said, "The root is not sentimentalism." Of course not. The root is a necessity for the development and consolidation of this Basque productive fabric, of companies, of SMEs, of micro SMEs. But how is it going to be a subject of sentimentality? But where do you think we're working? This is more serious than what you suggest by the Government or by the groups that we support the Government. Another question. I believe that Mr Gil said this earlier: 'Of course, you, the groups supporting the Government, have tabled an amendment, because it is not known whether it is contentious, because it does not raise anything'. Look, an amendment is proposed with the aim of trying to reach consensus and agreement with the promoter of an initiative. What happened in this case, Mr. Gil? For there has been no will of agreement on the part of the person who presented the initiative, on the part of Mr Soto. We haven't even been given the lines where things could go. With which you are excluded from a possible agreement. I suppose it will be for this rostrum to set the political position of each group, at least of the two who have reached a compromise; fix that position and, well, try to find what they call advertising or marketing by their interests. Well, there they are. But, of course, the Socialist Group has been ready to reach these agreements. And look, Mr Casanova, you have had the opportunity to influence the budget negotiation, to get the funds you would like to invest in those amounts that you have told us, 75 million over here, so much over there. They didn't.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u20	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u21	They didn't. And that's your responsibility. Because when you pass that train and don't take it, then it's not worth coming the rest of the legislature, at least in the year of the budget year, to give the baton, wrong, with which the government doesn't do it. Look, also facilitate the issue in the budget negotiation. And they didn't. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mrs. Wide, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u23	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Mr. Soso, I don't know if you've been listening to me for the first time. I have told you at the end why you have explained why you have not explained the cause of the public bank and have not shown it at the second interview. In the end, Mr. Casanova said the reason with small mouth and said to get more capitals. I don't know where we're gonna get it, maybe from the bad-found COVID rate or something, but it stays there. Why did I ask you that question? Do you place in the medium of signing that there is need of a public bank for what? To finance the capitalized company projects, collect credit operations, and share in the industrial company. And how? The Basque Institute of Finantz makes the Bank of Spain a bank office. But here we have the Fiestan Basque Institute, and there are its functions, too, Mrs. i.e., i. That's all in the Basque Institute. And even more, in the memory of the budgets of 2021, the public report shows itself again. Third point of this memorandum: general objectives for the year 2021 and its quantification; 3.2, formalisation of agreements and agreements with the administration of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi and with the mutual guarantee companies of Euskadi for the financing of SMEs and medium-sized enterprises. Hor daukagu Elkargi, who announced last week that he will take small stakes to enter the capital of Basque SMEs to help his roots. Elkargi, where the Basque Government is one of the 33 protective partners with 9.88 % participation, and if we add the three outlaws, we have 11.0% participation. Fourth point in the memory of the Basque Institute of Finance: provision of financial support to SMEs, medium-sized enterprises. Fifth point: takeover of stakes in strategic companies for Euskadi, Finkatuz fund, which will be managed through Finkatze Kapitala Finkatuz SA, with a founding share capital of 160 million, expandable during the legislature to 300 million euros. Here Mr Soto proposed to us that with this fund it would not be enough to buy those shares, but according to Casanova's calculations, we arrive and we are left with it. I don't know, they've come to an agreement, but I don't know if they have the bases very well placed. One of the goals of this legislation is to fix Euscal Institute as a manager of public finances. As far as speculative capital and the royal decree are concerned, Mrs Corcuera has already said this, but I would like to reiterate it. This royal decree is due to expire on June 30, 2021. And why? Because there is free movement of capital in the single European market. There are exceptions and justificational restrictions, and there are only three in which this issue can be regulated. And in the third point, they are measures justified on grounds of public order or public security, which is on which the Government of Spain has based to sign this decree. He says that the latter was invoked during the European sovereign debt crisis, when Cyprus in 2013 and Greece in 2015 were forced to introduce capital controls in order to avoid an excessive exit from capital, which is what happened in this health crisis. Cyprus removed all remaining restrictions in 2015 and Greece did so in 2019. On the other hand, the ecosystem. Mr Soto, you have disregarded the ecosystem our companies need for rooting. And Mrs. Corcuera has already explained it to you, but I think it is essential. I've made a comparison, a similarity with people, and I think I've been pretty graphic and if we take it to the business world, I think it's the same. We may, therefore, say that in the substance of the subject we are speaking of, these groups are united, and I dare say even in the form, though the name seems to make us different from that which we call them, some call the public bank, and others the Institution of the Fiinning of Euscal. Eta poztu nau gauza batek, Casanova jauna: Statu Batuak aipatu dituzu. Niri, personsonalki, asko gustatuko litzaidake league horretan jokatzea. Eta futbola was aipatu dozu, eta athleticzale gisa simil bat egingo duet. The fans of Athletic have very clear our philosophy and we know what it is to play with big local players against world giants; it requires a great effort, but you can get there. You can reach three finals during the same year, and you can play, and you can be in the front positions of the table. There's only one way to do it: training and preparing a good team. And that is what we have proposed. This Government is working to create the conditions that will enable these companies to continue to build on this commitment to employment, investment and activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Mist team shouldn't speak. Popular Group-Ciudados representative, Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, underneath the whole debate is continually undermining this division, which we see in so many debates and proposals, between the public and the private, between public and private companies, between public and private capital, which actually has to do with deep beliefs that divide us, and I think we will certainly not reach any agreement on this. Man, I just want to say two things about it. One of them is that the public does not fall out of the trees, that all public enterprises and that all public funds and that all public money comes out of the pocket of the citizens who need it. And that, therefore, every time we talk about the public we have to be careful, because we are touching other people's money. In that sense, well, in that mix between public and private companies we consider, as I think everyone knows, that the right thing is a mix. A mix between public and private companies in which each fulfills its role, as happens in almost all the well-functioning economies in the world. In that sense, instead of enabling funds to buy shares from private companies or to do this sort of thing, we think that what needs to be done is to listen to companies, if you want, public and private. Because, of course, private companies are not necessarily the bad ones, there are private companies also with owners of Bildu or Podemos, there are large and small private companies, there are private companies of all kinds. So, when we ask those companies, when you take the risk of setting up a company of any kind and you put yourself on the market and you start to compete without the umbrella of any public protection, but with your own effort and your own risk, because companies tell us that this famous ecosystem that we have to create, that famous competitive environment to help you, is reduced to very simple things. They say: "We need, on the one hand, to be allowed to work. We need them not to lock us up. We need, as long as we comply with the legislation and meet the right requirements, not to be inconvenient, not to be stuck in the wheels." And then repeat to satiety something that I'm sure you've heard many times, which is: "We need stability and we need legal certainty." And all the competitive environments that work well in the world see that they are precisely characterized by this kind of thing. Then there is the problem of companies that have not yet been born. That is to say, creating an environment for more people to be encouraged, to risk, to be encouraged to compete, to be encouraged to invest. And that, in that sense, they take the option of, for example, instead of making oppositions, which is a very respectable option, because they can also make the decision to start companies that will someday be big, give work to others, generate wealth. And every time we listen to them they say the same thing: to reduce bureaucracy, to reduce time, to facilitate the creation of businesses, which in the end we play everything here, sometimes even personal heritage. And that's how we create a truly competitive ecosystem, where people can create wealth and create jobs. Of course, the other option is, in fact, to bet on public employment. But I repeat, eh?, all that doesn't fall out of the trees. All that is paid for by the citizens in their pocket. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u26	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Now that we've ended our discussion, we'll vote together for the middle-direction signed by Podemos-IU and EH Collector. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 72; the supporters 24; the contrary, 48; the abstainations are 0; white, 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u27	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialists and the Eunciators. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 44; 75; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 28; abstaining, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u28	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "Mutation, introduced to the popular group of Laura Garrido Knörres, a member of the Ciudadans, with regard to the detection of the virus, and the introduction of danger. Discipline and final resolution. In turn, Madame Garrido, representative of the Basque Popular Group, has the word to introduce and take away the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. We may say that today's stage is full of doubts because the Basques don't know what our life will be like when the alarm is over, what our life will be like on the 10th of the next May. All we know is that this government will test a decree, but now we don't know what it's gonna be like and what it's gonna be like to stand up against this situation. We may safely say that these Basques need answers, we need certain answers at the moment. And this government doesn't say anything. We can say it's gone. We are plunged into a scenario of uncertainty with the end of the state of alarm on May 9. We have to say, clearly, that the Basques do not know what our lives are going to be like from 9 May. We are in doubt, in uncertainty, because we do not get answers from this Government. We do not know what this government is going to do. We know that it is going to pass a decree, but beyond that it is going to pass a decree we do not know what the content of that decree will be today. We do not know what the exact content of that decree will be and what concrete measures this Government will take. It is also clear from the report of the Office of the Prosecutor of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country that this Government, like no autonomous community, cannot take measures that affect the restriction of fundamental rights, that is, that affect rights contemplated as fundamental rights and therefore cannot take measures in relation to curfews or perimeter closures that affect the freedom of mobility and the movement of persons. Therefore, no curfew and no perimeter closures from 9 May. What we regret, and I have to comment on it as a Basque citizen, is that today other citizens of other autonomous communities know what their lives are going to be from 10 May, but here we do not know what exactly these measures are going to be taken by the Basque Government. In that regard, we regret that once again this Government is not up to the test, that it does not give guarantees, that it does not give, as I said, answers, certainties, that it is rather hidden, crouched, waiting to see them come. Well, as far as the motion of today is concerned, it is plain that this government has done so many things wrong, and that is clear or clear, if we see the data on the table, and we have long asked this government to reflect on it, a deep reflection is required, and at this moment, by the sight of the data, it seems that this government has not done so, and it would be well for us to have this reflection in order that the measures required, and the measures which are specially taken, may be effective. The subject of the motion before us is the cause of the question raised by a couple of full powers of control. We are also reiterating this in all appearances, just yesterday in this Parliament, at the weekly appearance. The Health Adviser is appearing to explain to us, and I have to say that there are at least few answers to the questions posed by this group, because these appearances are limited to giving data and mentioning issues that we can also see in the department's own epidemiological report on the evolution of data in this pandemic. It is clear that something is failing in Euskadi when we are at the head of the number of contagions and when the measures that have been taken have been very restrictive, we would even say the most restrictive. And we have asked for a reflection on this. I am repeating myself a lot in the arguments that I have maintained personally and that have maintained many of my colleagues over these weeks and days, because we understand that this reflection has not been done, or if it has been done, has not been done properly. Although it is true that the data are improving slightly – the cumulative incidence drops for the first time from the 500 cases in Euskadi since 19 April – the situation remains critical, especially in the healthcare system. There is nothing more to see than the number of hospitalizations, 75 revenues were produced on Tuesday, and the ICUs are really in a situation of disturbing saturation, and that brings and strain not only an effort from the professionals, but from the system itself, and generates tensions, as I say, in our health system, in Osakidetza. He pointed out that last May 2nd occupied 195 ICU patients. As I said, although the cumulative incidence has fallen from 500 cases, it is still high in 494, especially if we compare it with the figures we have in the rest of the autonomous communities, in the rest of Spain, where it is in 205.90 cases per 100,000 inhabitants. We therefore continue to double the national average of the incidence rate, and I believe that this, frankly, should lead to a sincere reflection on this Government. We asked, and yesterday we also told the Counsellor, and today we reiterate it again in this plenary, that it is necessary to have a thorough epidemiological analysis of where the contagions are occurring in order to take the most relevant and, above all, more effective measures. In this sense, today we also do not know where these infections are occurring, what percentage of infections are occurring in the private environment, in the home, in the workplace, in the area of hospitality, in the field of education or in the field of public transport, among others. This group highlighted in the past the shortcomings or issues that could be improved on which we understood that an effort had to be made, or on which this Government had to emphasize, and they are some of those that we have included in the text that we raised today as a motion. At the first point, we refer to the fact that there are no comparative injuries among people belonging to the same groups who are prioritising themselves in the vaccination process. If there are differences between territories, even between regions, and that is why I believe that, by a principle of equity, these differences must be alleviated, remedied, as it could not be otherwise. I believe that the vaccination process in general must also be speeded up, but especially the vaccination process for high-risk and chronic people immediately; in these, it seems that there have been difficulties in establishing a direct link between the information that primary care services have and Osakidetza itself regarding the situation of each high-risk patient, high-risk or chronic patient, and also an analysis of the circumstances that may prove that a person is in this situation and justify their prompt vaccination. In this regard, we call on the Basque Government to speed up the vaccination of these groups. On the other hand, we have also been aware on many occasions that although vaccination by age groups is being followed or attempted, on some occasions, especially because there has been a certain disorder in calling for people belonging to different groups, there may have been, as I said, some uncoordination and the vaccination criterion has not been scrupulously respected. This was very clear above all at the beginning of the vaccination process between the first groups of 80 and 90 years, although these are situations that continue to occur, and we therefore urge that the age criterion be scrupulously respected, as the adviser also told us in the response to the inquiry: what must prevail is the age at which priority is to be given to the vaccination process. We all know – even some people present in this room have also suffered – the shortcomings in citations and failures on the Osakidetza website. In that regard, let us hope that these failures will not occur again and that they will be corrected, that the relevant measures will be put in place so that, as I say, they will not occur again. And we also believe that primary care teams should be strengthened and strengthened wherever they are needed, especially in rural areas. One of the issues on which we are not as we should be is the issue of the tracking network. We think we need to reinforce it. It is absolutely essential, the role of the tracking network to identify the origin of the infections and outbreaks, to stop the transmission of the virus and to see exactly where the infected areas are. And I say that this issue is extremely important because if we know these specific points, we can also take the right steps and have better results to stop this pandemic. Estoas sonn las cuesces. These are the different points that we plan on our motion, and that's the things we conducted in the interpelation. There are several amendments to this motion. The groups EH Bildu and Elkarrekin Podemos have signed a compromise amendment. We could sort out some of the issues, but I understand that the fundamental points that we raised in our motion have been taken up and we are therefore not going to oppose that text. On the other hand, the whole amendment tabled by the groups supporting the Government speaks of some issues that, in general, cannot be wrong, but we, as always with discussions on the pandemic, miss a somewhat more realistic, even more ambitious approach that gives a more accurate response to the issues that need to be strengthened or emphasized at this time. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u30	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u31	Good morning, everyone. The initiative presented by Mrs Garrido, from our point of view, is true that in some way it covers or summarizes some of the issues, especially with regard to the vaccination campaign, because in the end most of the initiative presented by Mrs Garrido, despite the title, is aimed at the vaccination campaign and only the last point has to do with the detection and control of the spread of the virus, the poor traceability that we can have in Basquedi, etc. In that sense, if we agree, we are agreeing in the criticism of the errors and shortcomings that we are seeing both in the vaccination campaign and in what could be done with regard to the fight against the transmission of the virus. But it is also true that, like the last time the People's Party brought such an initiative, other groups in the House can agree, but there is no intention of translating the coincidences into a document. And the truth is that today we are going to discuss things that we actually talked about every Wednesday, we talked about yesterday in the committee, we passed on to the adviser the criticisms we make by the parliamentary groups; he knows them perfectly and is here. We have made an amendment where we include a number of issues, because they could be very many. When we negotiated with Mrs Ubera, who had made a more extensive amendment, we had a rather far-reaching amendment, because there are many issues we are discussing, both on the vaccination campaign and on the detection and control of the virus. We had made an amendment focusing on three or four issues, which we consider important to our group and which I will highlight. One is the topic of possible comparative grievances between territories through the OSI, basically because we have seen this at some points in the vaccination campaign, especially at the beginning of the vaccination campaign, when we already said that planning was not good at all. This also resulted in these imbalances, which had much to do with how it was being done, being seen in cases of irregular vaccination, how vaccines were being supplied from Public Health; there was no very strict control and this has generated some of this. Then, the topic of chronically ill people. The other day was an interesting debate in the interpellation. It is true that in the documents of the ministry, because the documents here are a short and sticky, they point out which are the groups of very high risk, but it is also true that there are chronic, pluripathological patients, who are not collected in that group, and we think that there, from our competences, the department could make a more accurate assessment, based on their clinical situation, etc., to see if it is convenient or not convenient their vaccination. In any case, what we are proposing is that it be as soon as possible. Then, one issue that we include and that we are also going to bring to this Parliament, which I have asked the Councilwoman on several occasions, is the vaccination of social exclusion groups: homeless people, street people, migrant groups. It is true that the Government has said, in answer to our questions, that its vaccination is guaranteed on the basis of the age principle referred to above, but we think that this needs a concrete strategy, a little more defined, because because of the circumstances of these groups, their own situation, in addition to increased exposure to virus infection, there are difficulties and there are going to be difficulties with regard to vaccination, contacts, etc. The Government assures that it is going to work with the deputies and with the entities that usually work with them. We do not want this to be done in a role: how it will be done. We think it's important. And that's why we include it and we're going to bring it here too. We were also talking about transparency, because it is true that when we go in and analyze how the vaccination campaign is going and we criticise how the vaccination campaign is going, we see a certain lack of transparency. It is true that we have the counselor to ask you every Wednesday, but the citizenry does not swallow the video of Wednesday's appearances. We have seen that in many of these areas there is no continuous evaluation. The last update of the website in the section entitled "Vaccination process", I think it is February, if I have not looked badly this same morning. We therefore believe that there is also a lack of transparency that should be corrected. Well, as far as the government's amendment is concerned, we also have nothing in particular against that amendment. It does not say anything else that the general criteria are met, as it were. What I find interesting is that many of the things, perhaps not all of them, but many of the things that were raised or that we are going to put forward by the opposition groups now, at this point, are not contradictory to what is being said in the amendment. I therefore believe that we are proposing measures of improvement or correction, both in relation to the fight against the virus and in relation to the vaccination campaign, which are perfectly within the framework of the groups that support the Government. Finally, I will point out one of the issues of the compromise amendment that we have signed, EH Bildu and our group, which I believe do not contradict that framework that you raise, which we do not question and which is fundamentally marked by the ministry, and we therefore believe that they could be assumed perfectly by the government. Expand the team of trackers and research teams, strengthen the Directorate of Public Health with the aim, among other things, of alleviating workload in Osakidetza, which we have seen the workload, especially at some times, as it is very overwhelmed. The issue of territorial balance by OSI, of course. The vaccination strategy for the population excluded from the system or at risk of social exclusion to which I have referred does not escape that framework at all. Strengthening vaccination teams so that staff are not claiming every short time that they are in a situation of permanent fatigue. Of course, he doesn't get away from that frame. I would avoid having to listen, as we have heard this week, to the professionals of Osakidetza who are already very saturated, who are asked to double shifts, reinforcement shifts. Improving dating management, avoiding agglomerations, improving how vaccination is done in these places of mass vaccination, reviewing professional groups to evaluate measures to strengthen security in the face of contagion. Well, they are measures, all of them, that do not escape that framework that they put forward in their amendment and that we believe that the Government could assume perfectly and that they are reflected in this compromise amendment. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u32	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u33	Good morning, everyone. Mr. Erkorek, Mrs. Apple. We're in a very important, delicate moment, and we're in a harpsichord about the development of the pandemos, at a crucial moment. You know some of the moments we've seen all this year, because of their features, they're very delicate and delicate, because we could move forward or go back. And why are we in the harpsichord? On the one hand, in the insertion campaign, there's a change of rhythm, we can find it through a speedy transition, and we'll see if that's connected. On the other hand, it's not enough yet to insert, we need additional measures from getting our team helmets off the way we're still far away. And we've got a high rate of independence, we've got hospitals full of them, and the usual activity is cancelled, so we've closed services, and we've cut off various activities. Thirdly, there is just a change of season, we find ourselves on the eve of summer, and, you know, it is customary that there should be a change in society at this time in the manners, in the flux of movement, and so on. And right now what happened? Well, it's just now that Madrid government said, "That's enough." He said to the members: "Be careful to make your decisions." That is what the Government of Madrid has said to the community. Up until now, it was very comfortable under Madrid's skirt. Although he protested a little at first, Madrid found it very comfortable to make strong decisions and to get his head out here with sweet decisions. The Government of the Urkullu refused from the start to remove the juice from his self-organization and to penetrate deeper into the self-portraits. The Government of the Ulkullus, in order to prove the stability of the whole community, opposed to the other institutions, and even to the members of the community. And now she's naked and alone, more dependent in every sense than ever. Because we haven't used our competitions. I don't know if the government was conscious, but alarm conditions are for exceptional situations. And exceptional conditions cannot be maintained for long. And in the meantime, you have to do your homework. Another question is, how the exceptions are managed, how the measures are laid in the heat of health, and how the liberties and collective liberties of individuals are taken to be as little injured as possible, and how the means are placed. Even if it's late, though the Government hasn't wanted it so far, a rethinking on the strategy of facing the pandemia is absolutely necessary. He should do a rethinking. One, by establishing measures founded on the power of the people. To prevent contagion by providing tools for the people, so that the collective and most individual liberties may be developed in the community. And not the free bar of consumption. Open it, close it, open it, shut it. That nail has failed, and we can't repeat a furrow that has failed. On the other hand, in this legislature, conversation and negotiation ought to be restored, in order to penetrate into our self-organization and to cultivate our means. If we don't take care of the health of our people and of our community, who will? Nobody. And that's what I've been doing in all the districts, including the insertion strategy. Madrid had established a general frame, but from that point on every community had a choice for taking its criteria and measures. But what happened at EAE doesn't have a name. The fatigue from September was not to be exploited and organized. The vaccines arrived on December 27 and the improvisation began. The obsession with the fun that's hick to separate from the rest of us led him to choose a strategy no one's chosen: that of keeping the second dose. But he kept more than the second doses. And the delay we've had until Friday is enormous. It's true that from Friday there's been a push to keep it, because they've been given before, but then they've just stopped. We can't even forget the initial irregularities, jump over the priorities, and the Department of Health denied his cares. And close the case at the back door. Many collectives were forgotten on the list of priorities, the insertion management of 70-79 parents has been very sad. And the lack of staff in the inclosures. You'll excuse me, but until this weekend, until we've managed to get a little speed, we've had a road full of obstacles. And we still have a lot to improve. It's always there, but we should be ambitious in the insertion campaign. But what has been said, besides the vaccination, is at present indispensable to additional measures. Or because we're doomed again. And failure is not only for the government, because it's going to be a collective failure. And because we're going to try to answer another wave. And don't forget, at the moment, what an independence rate we have, that we have the highest pitch of independence in the community around us. Don't forget what kind of hospitals we have. As for the Czech, in our humble opinion, a special effort would have to be made for the insertion of the underlying 60s as fast as possible. In that sense, we want to remember the criteria given by EMA, because EMA at any moment did not forbid him to place himself in the second dose with AstraZenec. And in this sense, as it is done with other treatments, or with contravention, the credence may be signed. So this option should not be discarded. Even the members of the higher health danger which are sensitive to the SS virus ought to be introduced as quickly as possible. We should consider the list surrounding the various pathological and see which more can be inserted. I don't think we're asking for anything else in the world. It's because people who are still pathological still don't include them. And there's a member of Osax in it, or they can communicate with the institutions represented by those people, with collective institutions, with Hosacombs, or the Medical Department; they'll be very grateful. We can't forget what we always forget, citizens who are outside the system on a mission. The biggest and most injured ones. We've seen how much of the pandemies are especially prejudicial to them. With municipal social services, identify with organizations in the third sector, get a list, start working from the capitals, and they need to be inserted, and they need to be included in the medical department's targets. On the other hand, the vaccination is not only due to the ages of age, but why not the peoples who are marked by disease. We have a number of citizens who have different diseases and pathology. That's the best thing for them to do. I mean, there's a vaccination at age, but some people have very precise features. There, as far as security is concerned, you can take a test about which vaccine to give these people. And, of course, we have to keep an eye on Osapart workers. We can't walk here and there, continually increasing the workhorse. Why don't we just go in and hire the incubators that are working on different health methods, or that they're forming? Farmers, odentologists, Auxilians, physiothepeuts, podologists, dietists? Provide formation and switch it on. They did it in other states. Can't we do that? Because we can't go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and off, we can't stop the services. We have to stop doing that because it turns against us and doesn't help pandemia to deal with the right thing. I can keep talking about this subject for a long time. But, well, we talked about yesterday's commission, and we put our proposals on the table. But, in our opinion, the strategy is to recover, and this is what the government should be put into.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u35	Thank you, Madam President. I, Mrs Garrido, must confess that, when you began to intervene, I took the hand of the booklet that they share with us with the initiative, because in the first five minutes I said: "I was wrong of initiative, I was wrong of initiative. He's not talking about the initiative we were coming to discuss." This is not the first time I've said it, and today I'm going to repeat it again. Because it gives me the feeling that every time he brings us an initiative on vaccination, it is clear that in all the committees and in all the previous plenary sessions we have had a dialogue of the deaf, in which no matter and no matter what data are provided on vaccination, on tracing. We told her three weeks ago, the counselor told her, that more than 50% of the positives are detected by that tracking network before those people are aware that they have the disease. We don't care about vaccination data. And he comes here to let go of his stuff. And to me that seems absolutely counterproductive. It's like we've gotten into a loop, some of which, in addition, have the dubious honor of not wanting to leave. And I think that's absolutely nothing upbuilding. In addition, it draws my attention, it continues to draw my attention to the fact that they have not changed their arguments despite the fact that the vaccination scenario in Euskadi has changed completely. It tells us the same thing – you only have to go to the sitting papers, you only have to go to the hemeroteca – the same as it was three months ago, which was two months ago. Same thing. It's the same thing. And the stage is completely different. I remember when less than two months ago, in this very rostrum, I came out to defend the need for an adaptive vaccination strategy and I fell from the octopus: you said that was not the way. And I think it's the most logical thing. I've explained it so many times. There is an absolutely clear strategy established by the Government of Spain and by the autonomous communities, agreed, which is being updated on the basis of the scientific evidence we have, the new data we have and the number of vaccines we are receiving. And in this very rostrum I told him that that was the best tool we were going to count on and that with it we were going to be able to adapt the vaccination in Euskadi to achieve the best results. And I say it again, I'm not going to stop at what you told us. You can go to the Diario de Sesiones, anyone who wants to go to the hemeroteca, was published in the media. But do you know what's going on? That today's vaccination data backs up that we were right. That is why our position today, our amendment, which you say is so unambitious, reflects on the first point the implementation of the Vaccination Strategy by adapting, of course, to the technical specifications of the vaccine, to the recommendations of the European Medicines Agency and to the recommendations of the health authorities within the Public Health Committee of the Interterritorial Council. And as you know, because we have said this on numerous occasions, the Socialists are committed to speeding up and speeding up everything we can in the vaccination process, as we have been doing from this government on the basis of the vaccines we have been receiving, according to the number of doses of vaccines. And that has made us get to be on a rather different stage today than we had just a few months ago, for example, a month ago. Returning to the Vaccination Strategy adopted within the Interterritorial Council and in relation to the initiative you have put forward, I believe that we need to clarify – I will not tire of doing so and that will remain my will in this plenary and in the Basque Parliament committee – that the Vaccination Strategy document, which some groups deny exists, is not two follies, is much more. I have only photocopied those I need right now for this initiative. It tells us that the review of scientific evidence shows that age is the main high risk factor for serious illness and death, followed by certain conditions. Therefore, age is the most important factor. And to that, Mrs. Garrido, responds to the age prioritization that is being done in vaccination. But not here, everywhere. With regard to those other circumstances beyond the age, which have nothing to do with age, and which can generate a high risk factor, I encourage you to go to pages 12 and 13 of this Vaccination Strategy, which have also approved the autonomous communities where the People's Party governs, where people at very high risk are being prioritized. And it integrates eight high-risk conditions. You know them. They were read one by one by the counselor when she responded to the inquiry. I'm not going to reread them, they're on page 12 of that document. Why eight? You may ask, why not more? I can answer what that same strategy says: that the assessment has been made by the scientific-medical federations and associations of Spain, in coordination with the coordinators of the National AIDS Plan. And I read: "We have considered limiting the prioritization of vaccination to the conditions listed in Table 1", which are those eight. And in that same strategy, it has already been commented on, it is said that these people will be vaccinated in parallel with those of 70-79 years old, if they have not previously corresponded to them because they are in another age group, and it is recommended that they be vaccinated with messenger RNA vaccines, translated to the Christian, Pfizer, Moderna, for example. Mrs. Garrido, that is what is being done in Euskadi, and that is what is being done in other autonomous communities. Therefore, vaccination starting at the highest ages, because age is the greatest risk factor, and at the same time vaccinate these people who are in those conditions that the scientific and health authorities, not you, not me, establish are the conditions of high risk. But in the April 14 commission we also talk about the pluripathological patients, the polymedicines, the chronics, and as we were told, there is a data that the counselor said that we cannot ignore: the largest case of pluripathological, the largest cases of polymedical people occur precisely in the highest age groups and also between those of 60-69 years, which is where we are acting. And it is that age is also a determining factor for multipathologies and chronic diseases, and that is why the age criterion is also followed, and that is why the experts of the Public Health Commission unanimously agree that this criterion must be followed. And I think we need to make it clear, to vaccinate, to vaccinate and to vaccinate, and that is what we are doing, putting all the means within our reach, correcting the deficiencies that are detected, that there are, of course, of course, and articulating mechanisms to reach all people and all the regions to get group immunity as soon as possible. And look, in front of the agrarians, it turns out that the deadlines are being met. I remember what the People-Citizens Group has been saying about the vaccination milestones that we have proposed here or about the vaccination milestones that President Pedro Sánchez proposed on 6 April. I'm referring to the hemerotheque, you just have to see it. But look, the first milestone we met two weeks ago, more vaccinated with the full pattern than infected people, infected people. And the second milestone this week, 5 million people immunized with the full pattern. In Spain today there are 25% of the population who already have at least one dose, and in Euskadi Osakidetza he has been a co-protagonist of this collective success, of which we should all be proud and proud. The data provided to us yesterday: 31.5 % of the population in Euskadi with a dose, 14.4 with the full schedule, above the overall average. And that's good news, it's good news for everyone, and I don't know why he's still committed to moving another stance. And now we are entering a new phase in which we will have to continue implementing the vaccination rate to achieve the next milestone, and if the rate of vaccination receipt remains what it has to be, I have no doubt that we will also achieve it. In the meantime, it is up to the institutions and also to us here, Mrs Garrido, from the Basque Parliament, to continue to appeal to the implementation of the measures and recommendations, because that is the way forward. We already know that you are still committed to moving the idea of chaos, the idea of the worst, in the end that's your strategy, and now it's time to move it to the stage where we're going to move from 9 May, we've seen it in those first five minutes of this motion that you've dedicated to us. We are not going to lose a minute in the confrontation, we are in the search for solutions, and those solutions are going to come from the hand of vaccination and the fulfillment of the milestones that we have marked and that we are fulfilling, and from the implementation of the co-governance and coordination mechanisms to ensure the necessary legal certainty in the adoption of the measures to be taken from this 9 May, which is what we urge the Basque Government and the Government of Spain in our second point. Because, Mrs Garrido, of course we have to seek legal certainty, and of course all these things have to go through the courts. I ask you a question: can it be otherwise in a rule of law?, do you think it can be otherwise? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u36	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u37	The head of the table, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good days to all. At first it wasn't... it wasn't that there was no light or that the light came, it was that there were no masks, no protective clothing. Little by little, which did not take sufficient measures to prevent contagion or which took too much, depended on each one. Soon after the tracking was not enough, more PCR must be done, done in pharmacies, used other techniques or followed by variants with more intensity. And now, vaccines. The only common thing about all this is that according to you, Mrs. Garrido, everything is wrong, if not worse. With vaccines that if they slow down, that people are not well advised, that you have to put this, that you have to put the other, that you just put a dose to put it to more people, that each one gets the one you like best, that they put all of them without looking at their age, that if before those of EPOC than asthma, or better the veterinarians than the firefighters, I know what. It could be of good intention, if not because they come from a certain parliamentary opposition. These particulars of today from you, Mrs Garrido, whose behavior with the COVID has been from the beginning of this legislature constantly criticizing, artificially raising the voice to say – even before doing anything sometimes – that it is wrong, not to listen to the explanations and ask again and again, even if it is answered. And that would not be reprehensible, because the opposition is to point out what the government thinks is wrong, if not because, I insist, everything is wrong with you. And that already makes her a suspect of criticizing only for the sake of a supposed political revenue and not of helping to build, which is something that, in case you didn't know, also belongs to the opposition from time to time. And in the face of this ongoing strategy of trying to obstruct, we, as a group that supports the Government, but I also tell you that regardless of that, we work for construction, for understanding the difficulty of governing and making decisions during this time. Focused already on the vaccines, I have already said, no more than once, more than 15 times, so far the doses that arrived on Monday were not known on Sunday, every week changed the technical instructions: that if this one cannot move, that it deteriorates; that if from this one week five doses could be taken from each vial and the following week, six; so until the EMA for the AstraZeneca vaccine, because it suspects that it caused thrombosis, and that is already more serious. Have you heard us criticizing all that? No, no, Because we are aware that the great success is that in just one year after the pandemic, there were already vaccines on the market. That is an unimaginable success of science and of the human being. And I think we should keep that. From there, there will be logical problems of a technical nature, as they have been launched massively without waiting more than to see the results of the tests that each pharmacist is obliged to do, without waiting for massive tests that are being carried out on the march. And so we will continue until in a few months the learning is high enough to go treading on insurance. But there has been no learning time beyond the test/error method. And it is that the right thing to do all this time has been to put the vaccine as soon as possible, because the risk of injecting the vaccine is lower than that of not putting it until you are absolutely certain of its absolute safety. In addition, it has always reassured us that we were being monitored by bodies of experts on permanent supervision of what was happening, basically the European Medicines Agency and its Pharmacovigilance Commission. I could be a great vaccine expert myself, why not? If instead of having dedicated myself to my professional principles, to oceanography, I would have dedicated myself to virology, now I could probably be a great expert, but I, as a parliamentarian, who is what I am here, would not dare say, not even knowing very much, what vaccine to put, how many doses to put or who before and who after. When a subject like this is logically placed in expert hands that analyze what is happening every hour, the logical thing is to leave the decisions in those hands and, in any case, ask them to transfer their explanations to us for the decisions made. And among the decisions made by that Public Health Commission and its vaccine submission is that of the vaccination order, and that order established by that commission is the one that is just following the Basque Government. There are no comparative aggravations between territories or regions, except for the logical punctual alterations of the distribution or other logistic characteristics. With regard to age and different pathologies, the Government is scrupulously respecting the criteria established by the experts in the field of vaccine submission. And it's already in the priority group 7 that includes those of 70 or less with very high risk conditions. And all that has its technical reason for being, there is no social reason, no political reason, no profit or nothing, it is a technique derived from the calculation of the risk of illness or having to be hospitalized. In short, each of us can have an idea of how to vaccinate and who before or after. But there is a group of experts who determine it, let's follow their criteria and let's stop paying for the doubt, the debate without knowledge, that quite a bit of discomfort there is so that from where, in principle, we would have to call for tranquility, we would seem more disconcerted. The vaccination process, a nuclear element of this motion, must be resolved from the initial recommendations of the EMA, which authorizes, pharmacovigilance and corrects the possible uses of each vaccine, and of the Public Health Commission, which adapts these recommendations and which establishes the prevalence of who should be vaccinated and with what type or types of vaccines. Another thing is that sometimes, due to urgency in decision-making, changes in technical specificities or also, which is recognized, errors arising from the complexity of the process, occur punctual dysfunctions or wait for a citizen longer than reasonable. They are all conflicts arising from the urgency and the enormous complexity of the process, but they are all understandable, unless they are taken out of context and given loudspeakers, despite which the vaccination process is being carried out professionally and effectively. Another thing is that some opposition does not like him very much. Well, I've got some bad news to give you, you'll still not like it, because you're gonna keep doing good, if not better. And I go, for a moment, to the tracking, because he has put in his motion several different things, that although it is also a repeated topic, it has nothing to do with vaccines. I conclude that based on the principle that it is more important to withdraw from the street and from the social relationship to a positive than to bring your data to a register, the tracking that more than 700 people do in Euskadi is doing very well. All cases and contacts are recorded and recorded in the database data, to try to determine whether it has been social contact, work, education, etc. Even, since March 1, they also ask each positive where he or she thinks he or she may have been infected, and this seems to be trying to start to exploit him or her to see if they also have any data that contributes more to the information they have. I am convinced, I know, that it is doing very well, professionally, with backtracking of contacts up to 14 days, which is already, and from the fourth day to the 14 are successful, at the moment, they have achieved 5% positive, which are 5% localized that has withdrawn from the social relationship. In Euskadi, the data is given daily, and in general more than 50% of positives come from contacts. That means it's a percentage of success in the nearby tracking. Another very different thing is to know the exact scope of the contagion, which in some cases, the least, can be achieved. But if someone's been in four bars the same day, ate with some friends, had two work meetings, and ended up having dinner with his brother-in-law, who knows for sure where that contagion occurred. The important thing is that in ten days I won't contact anyone again. Last but not least, fundamental and directly linked to your motion to make things right, we have included in our amendment the request for the Basque and Spanish governments to intensify dialogue and coordination in order to conclude a model of action from 9 May, when in principle, and it seems that in the end, the state of alarm ends. Because tracking is very important to detect positives, the vaccine is essential to move the pandemic away, but in the meantime, a legal rule is essential that allows the Government to take measures to help prevent further contagion. And the main reason for these contagions is social contact. The best way to avoid such contagious social contact is everyone's responsibility. But, knowing that this is not enough, we are convinced that it is necessary to agree between the Basque and Spanish Governments on the possibility of laying down rules containing, for a time, measures restricting such contact and that they will need sufficient legal coverage to avoid their decline by judicial intervention. We are not seeking confrontation or conflict, but we are convinced that, ever since the exchange and agreement, a rule that facilitates measures with legal certainty to limit mobility and grouping of people is proving to be essential to continue this fight against the pandemic, without forgetting neither the tracing nor, above all, the vaccines. But everything is going to be necessary right now. I appeal, in passing, to all the groups in this Parliament to support the need for this agreement, for this point in our amendment, to enable the government to address more securely the final stage of this pandemic as we move urgently towards the vaccination of all Basques. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u38	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing over to the uncorrected teams, Mistya, your word, Mrs Martínnez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. The motion that brings us to debate today by the People-Citizens Group is confirmation that there are many things that do not work, and that this Executive is also doing it frankly wrong. Mr Tellería, I want to make it clear that criticism is always good and cannot be trivialised by it. In fact, today, with the damaged voice, I'm here trying to make a constructive critique and give our point of view. Suddenly, we had massive vaccination. Suddenly, groups who complain because they were going to be vaccinated and, without notice, they are told that they will have to wait. Today we reserve doses. There's no need for tomorrow. And in the meantime, advertisements through the media about deadlines and possible appointments. Propaganda and marketing to cover up shame. Of course, the key is in the provision of vaccines. That is clear to us all, but we do not escape that, with the vaccines in our hands, it is the corresponding Administration that decides what and how. And in our case, that what and how you don't even discuss with non-government agents, you don't even communicate. Time has shown the improvisation of this Executive, its tendency to improvisation, and also its obsession to differentiate itself from the rest. Transparency, transparency and transparency. That's the solution. What is the problem in making information accessible to all citizens? What are the intentions of this Government in insisting on the opacity and concealment of a protocol that sometimes does not seem to exist? Of course, it is necessary to avoid gaps between provinces. Personnel and patients at higher risk should be vaccinated as soon as possible. Vaccination criteria must be respected, provided that these criteria exist and are known to all citizens. And of course you have to throw away the rest so that the people you are invited to get vaccinated don't have to spend very long hours with your computer to get an appointment – which I personally checked with family members – and the technique, moreover, is almost impossible. We know what's going to happen today. PNV and PSE will again give an alibi to a government that does not work, which has contributed to the sad achievement of placing the Basque Country at the head of Spain in positives for every 100,000 inhabitants, despite its very restrictive measures, and surely also because of its mismanagement. In fact, this Parliament will approve of continuing to do the same thing that has led us to this painful situation. What we're going to do today is very clear. We are going to support the PP's motion, because nothing about the opposition thrives here, but we believe it is important that it is taken very seriously by government groups. The reasonable thing would be that none of this, moreover, was being debated today, after almost a year and a half of having this health crisis in our society. We are going to vote yes, moreover, because we believe that we are not going to be accomplices to the physical and mental health problems and the widespread ruin that we are having right now with the current situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u40	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. At the turn of the answers, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u41	Well, today I'm in bad luck, because every time I go out to the rostrum there's the lehendakari and he leaves, he doesn't want to listen. Well, Mr Erkoreka and Mrs Sagardui, I hope you will be transferred the content of part of my speech, which I believe is constructive, far from what Mr Rico and Mr Telleria have said. Another thing is that you don't want to analyze any opposition proposals; I don't think you even read them, do you? I do not believe that they comply in that sense or with the slightest parliamentary courtesy, because they are set up in their speech of self-congratulation. And I, what do you want me to say to you, but I believe that the self-congratulation in which you are installed, and of which this government gives obvious signs, is a bad adviser, especially for the times ahead and for the data we have. Look, I, as a citizen, apart from being a representative and carrying the health issues of the group I represent, want answers. And I believe that not only do I want answers, but I deserve answers from my Government, because this is also my Government. The Government of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party is also my Government. And the lehendakari is also my lehendakari. I therefore believe that I have the right to demand and have those answers. To this day, I repeat to you again, I do not know what my life will be like from May 10th. What we do know is what we already knew from the beginning: that there are certain measures that the Basque Government cannot take because they affect areas in which it cannot enter, which are all areas that have to do with the restriction of fundamental rights. Well, we know that from the government today, because others have it meridically clear, that nothing could be done about curfews and perimeter closures. But it is that in other autonomous communities their leaders – and I don't care, leaders of different political signs – these issues have been clarified long ago. These are issues, as I say, that were already meridianly clear, as Mr Rico said, as it cannot be otherwise, with scrupulous respect for the rule of law. Of course, here we can say we're going phenomenal, but all these last few weeks we've had 180-190 people in ICUs. Some of them die, huh? Some people die. And some of the planters also go to ICUs. I mean, I don't think the data situation can be overshadowed. Of course, let's go phenomenal, but it is that the rate of contagion in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country doubles the state average. Doesn't that deserve a little analysis from this government? I say a minimum of analysis on the part of this government. Keep yourself settled in self-congratulation. Older people who weren't on Osakidetza's radar, the last at the vaccination stations. They tell me about the dosages. What happens, that we are dumber, that this government is dumber, that it does not get the doses that other autonomous communities get? Man, if there is a dose shortage, it will be a dose shortage criterion for all autonomous communities. Or are you telling me that we have been discriminated against, the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, in relation to the doses that are distributed? Deficits in citations. Vaccinations in the concrete stages and in the groups that have gone late. Let's look at the group of people over 80: last week we were the last in the group from 70 to 79 years. But it is that these are data that are published and that you are obviating. They remain installed in their self-congratulation. Of course, the vaccination strategy is setting out recommendations by the National Health Commission, but here we are talking about planning a vaccination process. You like to talk about skills and claim competences, but the competence to plan a vaccination process belongs to you. Risk situations. Of course, but when have people at risk been vaccinated? As Mr Telleria says, yes, 60 to 75 years old. This group could have started to be vaccinated long before. As this Government has also decided who could enter the core group. Look, we're proud of Osakidetza, Mr. Rico. But what we are not, of course, is proud of the management and those who are at the forefront, at the moment, of Basque public health or of the Department of Health, and I refer to the facts. And their reality must not coincide with the reality of the street. I go out on the street and the hoteliers ask me, "What's going to happen? Are we going to stay closed at eight o'clock in the afternoon? Are we gonna be able to open until 10:00?". There's uncertainty. People don't know on the street and, above all, I don't think we can frivolize with people who have to open the blind, who have a business. That it's been quite a few months. That they have been in uncertain situations, that they have not had enough aid from this government, with changing criteria, with decisions at the last moment. Finally, I would ask you to look a little bit carefully at some of our initiatives, which we will put right. Look, Mr. Telleria, they're made with experts and professionals. Those, precisely, which you systematically obviate. Those which you have not taken into account from the beginning. Where is the Advisory Council on Infectious Diseases, which was created ad hoc for situations of these characteristics, such as a pandemic situation, by Mr Darpón? Where's the Epidemiological Surveillance Committee?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u42	I love you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u43	Do you... in the units of the historical territories? Therefore, I think you should look more into reality. And also a little more to the experts, who of course I think are right, and also some issues have already been said in the media.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u44	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Hernandez, together Podemos, he mustn't talk. Gather EH, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u45	The Government of the Urkullu, from the very beginning, refused to use the tools which the auto-organizes. He refused. And he wouldn't go deeper in the car. And now? We find ourselves as we are, and as far as we are concerned. It's much more convenient for others to make decisions and hide themselves, isn't it? But what now? Oh, our self-gagoven, oh, oh, our cargoberon. What's happening with the automatically doesn't have a name. I don't know the tools that give us the auto-generacy we know, or whether we're not conscious or not, or whether they don't want to use it or what's really behind us. We see here a government that doesn't want to get wet, which doesn't want to make decisions, and that's where you see the level of a government. It's easy to be a government when things go well, but you have to be there at hard times, you have to make decisions, we need to get wet. It's true that everything that's going on is very Kafka. On the one hand, it's normal that there are tensions between different competitions, it's normal. And it is natural that each should defend his own functions and his competitions. That would be much better done if there was dialogue and negotiation here and from the beginning it had been told about all of us, but even that has been refused. Then there's a curious thing about it. Now it seems that the courts have to decide. Where are the functions of politics, of institutions? Where is the legislature power left? The government's right? What's going on? What's really happening is very Kafka, but in the end the health of a whole community and society is at stake, which is an objective data. We're seeing that they're not doing homework again, when they have to be done a long time ago. A lot has been discussed during the insertion campaign, and we've talked a lot about the ability and disparability of the committees. You always said, "Yes, if vaccinations come, we'll put them all together, it's a question of disconition, it's not a question of capacity." Excuse me? Until Friday, all the bulletins testify to him, not all the people who came, and the vaccines weren't put in their hands. It was not a question of dispondability, it was a matter of capacity, it was a matter of management. There's a lot of room to improve the management here. It was a question of management and ability. That's it. You've also changed your strategy, and very well, that's what you have to do: When things go badly, try and change them and try to improve them. But there's still a lot to do, big one. And that's where we want to see government, citizen and society to protect and protect the health of this society, community and care. We have now collective and individual freedoms, but the condition of an exception ceases. That can't take forever. How do we let that go? How do we support it? We're all going to have to be responsible, aren't we? Then it's curious the first point of the teams that support the government. We don't know if we should listen to EMA, the companies that produce vaccines, or the Council of Public Healthland in the State. We don't know. I don't know if you realize, but everyone says different things, and at the moment, even this government doesn't respect these criteria. EMA has said one thing, and at the present moment she has not attended to what she says. Now a new decision has been made in the Public Health of the State, and it will not even be attended to the paut of the manufacturers' office. So how does Mr. Tellegio say? "A setas o a...? "I don't know. Then let us be clean, let us be clean and clean, Let us be honest and honest. And above all, based on scientific evidence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Garrido said that we are settled in self-congratulation and that she had the doubt that we were reading the initiatives. Man, I can tell you that it's not just that you read me the initiatives, but that I read and review the interventions of those committees I've been in. And that's why I'm hallucinating, that's why I'm hallucinating. Because, of course, you from the People's Party have an amazing ability to say one thing and the other. Look, I'm going to give you two very clear examples. I remember a session in the Health Committee in which you asked the Counsellor: "I remind her that the Spanish Government has the competence to coordinate health care." And I said, "You're right." I said that too, in fact, you're right. Of course, what I cannot understand is that you are now asking the Basque Government to skip the vaccination strategy that we have agreed on at the Interterritorial Council. Yes, yes, it is asking you to skip the vaccination strategy agreed between the Government of Spain and the autonomous communities. I already understand that that co-governance you carry very badly, you have carried very badly always, always. Because when you're trying to pose here other high-risk groups other than those set out in the vaccination strategy, you're no longer just going against that agreed vaccination strategy, it's going against the scientific criterion. It is precisely this decision that has been taken by the bodies joining the health authorities and the specialists, who can give a much more accurate assessment than you and I can give here. It's just as simple as that. You insist and insist on making the same arguments as three months ago, which two months ago; you only have to go to the Journal of Sessions. See if I can read it, Mrs. Garrido. Journal of Sessions, hemerotheque of the media. And with an absolutely different result in the vaccination you continue with the same thing. Hey, we're over, a little bit, yeah, but over the global average right now. It is that the situation of vaccination in Euskadi has been accelerating according to the doses we have been receiving. And that has enabled us to fulfil the milestones marked by the Basque Government and those marked on 6 April by the President of the Government of Spain. You have criticized both of them, that is, it doesn't matter too much either. And, of course, another example of contradiction is the issue of the situation after 9 May, and there is an absolutely obvious contradiction of his party, which they express everywhere. On the one hand, they are launching autonomous presidents of the People's Party to call for the extension of the state of alarm, a state of alarm that you did not vote for, to begin with. But, at the same time, they throw their spokesmen in Congress and in the Senate to say that if an extension of the state of alarm is brought, they will not support it. It's just amazing. I think it proves, once again, that what they are doing is putting pressure on the pot. Looks like it's his only target. I honestly don't think we're on those. I have no doubt that citizenship, because it says "I, as a citizen"... Well, what am I? And all of us sitting here what are we, besides political representatives? Citizens. But here we come as party spokespersons. Nor should we be arrogant here that we are representatives of all citizens. Together, we are representatives of all Basque citizens. Of course I do. But you, Mrs. Garrido, are no more representative of Basque citizenship than I am, no less. I share the view that legal certainty is needed. Of course legal certainty is needed. But I have asked you a question that, by the way, you have not answered: Is there legal certainty in a rule of law, if you ask that the courts do not intervene? You know I don't. Because they're trying to move a message that exists. I'm going to use an expression that you said, "What are you, dumber?". No, no, no, no. It's just that you're trying to raise the situation that everything here is legally clear. And that's not true, and you know it. He says that without a state of alarm certain things cannot be done, but the truth is that without a state of alarm the Navarra High Court of Justice spoke of a perimeter confinement. The truth is that without state of alarm there have been isolations and internments, quarantines, diagnostic tests, restrictions or restrictions on movement and limitations on private meetings. I'm not saying that. Report of the Council of State for precisely the challenge before the Constitutional Court of the Anti-Pandemic Act of Galicia. Obviously, the courts will have something to say. Meanwhile, where we will find ourselves, always and in all governments, it is in the search for legal certainty and to give certainty and no more doubt to the citizenry. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u48	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u49	Good morning again, everyone. Mrs. Garrido, how do we not read anything? Of course we do. What happens is that he bores us, because he always says the same thing. And he's got the whole legislature with the same thing. Instead, I'm going to tell you one thing, and I'm going to prove it to you. You don't listen to anyone or act like you don't listen. I'm tired, I'm tired. Because, among other things, he has told us that there is no LABI, that the government does not advise itself on technical, let's say, good ones. First, he is insulting the technicians who are in the government as if they were not good, as if the debate we have between us, lawyers, biologist, teacher and philosopher, were experts. If we have no idea of the story, we have no idea. And, besides, he said, "It's just that there are no members of I don't know what..." Yesterday he asked the same thing in the committee. And Mr. Jonan Fernández answered him. And you heard him. And he brought him back here. There are three members of the Infectious Diseases Advisory Council, including its chairman, and one member of the Euskadi Vaccine Advisory Council. They're advising the government. Either he lies to us or he has an otitis problem. And then, about what your life is going to be on May 10th, don't transfer responsibility to the good of the lehendakari, who has enough. As much as the decree tells you, as much as even judges and prosecutors decide what it is, in the background, you don't know what will happen to your life on May 10th. I don't even know what it's gonna be from my own complacency. But that's the point. Just a second, Mrs. Ubera. EMA reports on vaccines. She doesn't decide about vaccines. He decides every state that touches him. And sometimes they respond exactly to the recommendations of agencies and others do not. But the recommendations of the EMA are never skipped. Talk to the French and the Germans. You'll see how you skip those issues. In other words, the areas in which each body works in this area must be differentiated. And, Mr Hernandez, there is no contradiction in the background. It's true, there's no contradiction between what they put and ours, deep down. Although there's one thing we don't like at all. Just as you move it, it seems like it's not done. And it's just that it's done. What you ask is being done, is being done. You can nuance whatever you want, but it's done. There's no real aggravation between regions. The list of people is the one that corresponds. There may be a point-by-point jump at one time or another, which is absolutely understandable, because not all 65 people are vaccinated throughout the Euskadi on the same day. And there'll be one 64 and one 67. And that's not a problem. That is, it is doing well in all the listed risks and it is what is being done in the listed chronics, which are transplants, hemodialysis, cancer, HIV or Down syndrome over 40 years of age, those are the ones that have decided the Public Health Commission that must be vaccinated now and those are the ones that are being vaccinated now. And one of EPOC, no, because the risk of getting sick has it bigger or smaller. If it was just illness, let's say, chronicles, here I am, I have three and I have had to wait for age, not chronicity, and I don't protest. Another thing is for you to put loudspeakers on him. I, look, Mrs. Garrido, deep down, you're imitating. Yesterday he gave us a few minutes of free publicity about what happened in Madrid, and you're doing what you're doing is imitating your party in Madrid. It has gone backwards, much further behind the French Revolution, when a diatribe became a conflict and that leads to confrontation. The French Revolution has passed. Disparities become problems for all and among all trying to solve it. It seems subtle, but it's a big difference. For you there is always a opposite, which is the Basque Government and the parliamentary groups. But I don't care. Basically you, the PP, are the conclusion that what you like is Madrid, which is the bad thing you know, you like the bad thing you know. I'm more of Arguinano than the other day he said, "In this life you either give grief or envy." I do not know if you are envious of a group as large as that, it is likely that yes, what is clear is that your party already has four parliamentarians. By the way, do not ask that we be so strict with age or that the government is not so strict with age, because it is contradicting its president Iturgaiz, who asked the lehendakari to be vaccinated as soon as possible, and still did not touch him by age. Finally, I believe it is essential – and I want to do so on behalf of the entire Basque Nationalist group – to encourage and encourage the Basque Government, and especially the Lehendakari and the Health Adviser, to continue to do what they are doing. As much as they tell you, know that this group is going to be supporting you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u50	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Mist must not speak. So after the discussion, we'll put Garrido Knörr's original text to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly, 44. 75; the supporters 7; the contrary, 41; the abstations, 27; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u51	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote together for the middle-term correction signed by the Podemos-IU and the EH Collectors. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 44; 75; the supporters are 33; the opponents are 42; the oppositions are 42; the abstainations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u52	So it's not accepted. And finally, we vote for the Basque Socialists and the U.S.A. patriots in the whole area that the teams present. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 44; 75; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 1. Abstations, 33; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u53	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Phum up the propose as the parlamentary team has made, in the digital transformation of Euskal Autonomy in the Esquimia Estura, the foundation of the integral part of the planet which will secure the effective participation of the women ZTIAM, and the construction of the track page. To discuss and to decide once and for all." In turn, Mrs. Martinez, representative of the EH Collect Group, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. I'll start with a question about what I'm talking about today. I want everyone to think of a woman in science, technology, engineering, art and mathematics. When you think about it, I'll tell you now that Marie Curie isn't worth it. And if I asked you if you had a woman in your head, most of you probably would have told me you didn't. If you ask men the same question, you'd probably get more than one. That's woman's reality in science, technology, engineering and mathematics. No one knows them. They were invisible, but let's take a look at the story. There have been women in ZIAM, and they have also been pioneers. But, to tell you the truth, women have had no ease. We must remember that women, until recently, were forbidden to go to college, to study. In the state, until the year 1910, they were forbidden to go to college until 111 years ago. For this reason many of the women, interested in curiosity, had some contrivances: by the name of his men, with their slogans, woman's name covered, or anonymous. But the obstacles, the women have not yielded. Above all obstacles, she has been the leading of the digital transformation from the start. Here's Ada Byron, 1815-1852. The first informant person in history. Many believe that science, technology, engineering, and male maths. See that in the beginning the precursors were women. And here's your first computer, 1946. It was famous, E.I.C. Supercomputer. There were six women programmed here, six of them programmed this computer. But they weren't alone. After that there's been a lot of them, I won't have time to mention them all, but I'll mention three. The African-American Kathering Johnson, for example, calculated the course of the moon to reach the moon. Margaret Hamilton was the first software engineer who was the first person to be a software engineer. And then he was the pioneer of the Wi-Fi in your pockets, Hedy Lamaar. And ye ask yourselves: With the leading of the digital transformations, what happened to you today? In 1967, since the birth of a personal computer, the difference was this: The man, the man, saw that there was a prestige here, an emergent field was coming, and took up the foreground. Here's the difference. Thirty years' difference. And this is where we can see how men took their first shot, and women became women in flower or mujero. This is the notice for a microprocessor from 1977. But what's our situation at the Basque Erren today? In February 2021, we can see that in what Eustate took, there are 56% women at university. And what do these women learn? 75% are in degrees related to health and social services. 29% (Sic) in mechanics, electronics, or other technical training. And when you're in the IKT, 16% of all the students in it is only a woman, 16,76%. So, as you can see, it's a kind of tendency to keep women watch and men to scientific and technical areas. And why are they so little? Why do we have so few women and girls in number? Because there's a lot of obstacles that women have to stand for ever since they were little. These difficulties exclude science, technology, engineering and mathematics. In the auto concept, they think there's less intelligence than boys since they've been six years old. They even think they're worse than boys in mathematics. They have different effects: parents, classmates, teachers, gables, masculinized professions. They have a belief that the field of science is related to the machines. They have a greater opinion of the well-being of the people. That is to say, the opinion which is related to machines, and not to the well-being of men. A terrible lack of drivers. The Matilda effect, they think it's also a matter of nerds. And as long as this is the state of girls and women, the digital transformation goes on, taking giant steps. And the effect of COVID-19 is still increased by multiplying speed and importance. Digitization will now give us some facts about the crude internal product of the State in 194.38%, depending on Vodafone and Delote. Thus it is received in the economy of the European Committee, and in the index of digital societies, called DESI. There are five points of difference. Mckinsey made a report about jobs called the future of work in Europe, and it is said that between 2030s, in scientific tech technology, there could be four million jobs. And he specifically reports that the employment organization will be a great one for software developers. So the professions associated with the ZTIAM area will grow 25 percent in the next decade, and be part of the largest growth area. And then we have the importance of the digitalization made even within the foundations of Europe. We're going to digitalize a third of the budget of the history of the state, and this is where the Euskakii will be able to direct two hundred and three million for digitalization and innovation. A great investment and a strong bet that will be done to the digital transformation. And why should women be the leading part of the digital transformation? Because women have a right to be in SYRI, because they have talent, and because we can't lose that talent. That's because the genetic, the digital, all the cracks have to be destroyed. Because, after all, in the development of digital modifications, we must introduce women's needs, interests, priorities, opinions, experience, and talent. Because this makes the digital transformation rich, by approaching a society that will become more equality, and building a society that will have more social cohesion and social justice. How are we doing a digital inclutive transformation in the Basque Corporation? How are we gonna do this? That's where we have two strategys. On the one hand, the Euscatian Division is 2025. It hasn't yet been introduced, and it's going to be reported. But, from what we have read, there are 80-90 pages in this strategy, and, in fact, there are a lot of digital technology mentioned. 5G is mentioned, artificial intelligence, foundation security, block chain, blockchain, and many digital technology are mentioned. But unfortunately, there is little to be seen about the woman SYM-ZIAM, and, in fact, it seems to us very disturbing. That's part of it. Number two, SRYM strategy. Thus we may say that it is directed to education, that what was hitherto in operation has been arranged, and that all enterprises have been collected, and that the SYMEM of the best schools are rewarded. They're just a little bit of an educational initiative, and we think it's a bit short. We believe that we must go beyond education: the world of enterprise, of technological research, must be involved in society itself. And there are other good practices there, it would be good to see them. Here, in this Chamber, they love to look at Germany. Here in Germany they made a project: ZTIAM woman's National Pacttu. And it wasn't just about education. The politics, the science, the media, the society, were observed there; it was a compact among them all. And their goal was to protect and promote her promotion to the woman's situation and the NTIAM woman. What we have to do is to look at what's in it and to attach it to things here. They're doing a lot of stuff here, too, but they're delocated. We propose that we make a path with it. There is a project inspira SYRIOM, in which they work with refugees. There are also prizes: Ada Byron's prize, a prize of Gladys just arrived. All of them must be united. And speaking to the experts with that harvest, and marking a pathpage that will, in fact, bring the guarantee of the woman ZIAM in a digital transformation. This is our proposal, we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mrs. Podemos-IU, Mrs. Gonzalez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u56	Thank you, ma'am. Good afternoon, congressmen. Society owes women a long and deep demand of forgiveness. Though men disdain his results, she has always endeavoured to cultivate and show her birth from the gaps in which history has left her. We can't miss him right now. We live in full transition between the economy and the information society, which we called 3.0 and the revolution of industry 4.0, which is characterized by the disappearance of borders between physical, digital and even biological. Technologies have come to change our lives, our way of living, our way of working and our relationship. The uses and acquisition of digital skills have an enormous influence on the presence and absence of women in the digital society. Education, health, conditions of work, &c., and the ages of life, in how positive and negative a woman may be introduced into a digital field. The factors which prevail in society, in culture, in institutions, and in psychosociations oblige us to increase our presence in ZTIAM. The more able to get digital tools, use them, and develop them, the more capable we have of making decisions in life, for instance, when we go from high school to college, when we get to work, or when we get to a teenage age. According to the latest studies and reports of the European Commission and the ILO, the mismatch between the competences generated by the education system and the needs of the market is one of the main problems of our economy. Some of the misadjustments are based on the fact that the educational system is overly specialized and, in addition, dedicated to memorizing and competing between different fields of knowledge, and the needs of the market go on the other hand, go more for the ability to generate new ideas, to solve unforeseeable problems, for critical thinking and complementarity between different fields of knowledge. International agencies therefore recommend that in designing digital inclusion policies, studies be conducted to address access, quality and the symbolic dimension of the use of technologies by women. Eta hori dakarrena ekimenak gaurko. Beharrezkoa dugu pontzia hori Eusko Legebiltzarrean osatzea, horren bidez emakumeak Euskal Autonomia Erkidegoko eraldaketa digitalan eduki behar duen part-hartze eraginkorra aztertuko bedita. For this purpose we must deal with these matters; first, a digital genus, the second, preparation; the third, digitalization, and employment; and the fourth, which ought to have the design, production, and application of the ICTs, which women serve to make decisions in life. On account of the gender digital divide. Various studies agree that overcoming it is still a challenge that requires policies and actions to ensure gender equality in access to resources available on the Internet. This aspect is essential if women are to have the same opportunities to participate in the design and development of technological products and services, in addition to the importance of taking into account the heterogeneity of women's situations and profiles in the design of public policies. With regard to training, the latest research warns about the lack of CTIAM vocations among young women in secondary education. In fact, if we review the data on women's participation in university studies, in this sector we observe significant gender gaps in the type of study women choose. And this we know practically all of us. Most of them are more attracted to life and health, while boys are more prone to pure science or traditional engineering. In terms of digitisation and employment, data from the digital industry world: only 8% of women hold technical and specialized positions. Only 10%, well, almost 11 of the companies have some kind of specific programme or policy when it comes to hiring women. And in the world of startup creators only 17% are women. Wise men and women insist on how important digital capabilities are to work, and how to train women from young to digital ability all the time. As in many other labor camps, even in the digital sector, we have a great hole all over us, for there are very few women working in team-masters or high headquarters. This is from a 2018 Digital.es survey of participation in the creation of information and communication technologies. This is another area that should be addressed in the presentation, because there is a limited presence of women in the design and production of technologies. Many of the technologies developed today do not address women's views, interests and priorities, and there are, among other things, no major female references in digital media, especially in all matters related to artificial intelligence. Teknologia digitalak diseinatzen eta ekoizten direnean behar-beharrezkoa da generoaren oinarri eta irispide etikoak betetzen la zirtattzea. At this point we can all visualize the gender biases present in image and voice recognition systems, where most are reproducing female voices related to help and care, or algorithm systems that are mostly also created by men belonging to privileged social groups. Landing on the initiative that brings us here today, we find it very pertinent to bring it to Parliament and to know the positions of the various groups on this issue. From Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we have reached an agreement with the proposing group, with Euskal Herria Bildu. Well, eskerrik asko, hain zuzen, Lore Martinezi gure ekarpena jasotzeagatik. The amendment by the Basque Nationalist and Basque Socialist groups is a proposal, in our view, once again vague and diluted and not suitable for the specific purpose of the initiative. The focus of the initiative is to create the paper and in its text only a mention appears in the third point of disclosure, but not a single real measure to boost what was proposed here. We do not even find alignment with the Euskadi 2030 Science, Technology and Innovation Plan, where one of the four major objectives was the promotion of talent and women researchers. Bukatzeko, gogora dezagun ezen, Nazio Batuen Erakundaren Arabica, garapen jasangarrien helburuak beteko badira, ezinbestekoa of emakumeek zientzian, technologian, ingeniaritzan, artean eta matematikan daukaten partaidezza modu nabarmenean handitzea. Horretarako, bear kontuan hartu beharko dugu that the technological field can feed on all the creative and innovative wealth present in society, because so far they are very masculinized sectors and women's capacities are being lost. We also need to overcome the prejudices that prevent girls and girls from choosing science and technology-related studies. Women leaders in technological fields need to be made more visible. The mentality of society must be changed. Finally, women have access to jobs and positions of responsibility in the technological sectors, because these are the most valued and most remunerated professional careers. If women are left out, existing inequalities will be further deepened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u58	Yes, thank you very much, President. In this initiative we are going to talk about equality, in particular, with regard to the effective participation of women in the digital transformation of the Basque Autonomous Community. We live in an increasingly digitized society, and to materialize these technological advances are needed and will be needed in the next professional years CTIAM of science, technology, engineering, arts and mathematics. Because of the increasing pace of technological development we are experiencing, there are many sectors in which the skills and skills that professionals require are evolving at high speed, even in those less technological sectors. And the pandemic has accelerated it. This is why STEM education is being given great importance at European level in recent years, by launching its own STEM educational initiatives and programmes, with the aim of promoting the above-mentioned vocations at all levels of education, from the earliest ages to the university stage. STEM education is that education that integrates science, technology, engineering and mathematics in connection with the arts and humanities, with the aim of awakening the interest of students in these professions. It develops basic skills that are both cross-cutting and disciplinary and empowers students to face the challenges of society in a responsible manner. The STEM approach to education seeks to intentionally provoke situations that allow simultaneous and integrated learning of concepts of these subjects in a practical context of problem-solving and design, as is done in enterprise engineering. UNESCO itself states in its Science education report that training in science and technology is a key element, considered essential, to promote education in these fields at all levels of education and to improve the scientific education of society in general. It also highlights the need to pay special attention to encouraging young people to develop careers in science and technology, especially for women. That is why it is important to place the digital challenge among the priorities of the political agenda. My group fully agrees with this. What we do not agree with is the need to create a paper to identify roadmaps to develop a comprehensive strategic plan to ensure the effective participation of women in the digital transformation of the Basque Autonomous Community. Because the importance of this digital challenge is already included in the political priorities, and different actions have taken place. We have a Co-education Plan that attaches great importance to this issue. In addition, the Basque Government considered the need to give impetus to STEM education and the Euskadi STEAM Strategy as one of the priority lines for this department since 2018. Since 2019, Euskadi has participated, together with a total of 17 countries, in a European project to boost vocations and professions STEM through the Euskadi STEAM strategy, launched, as I have indicated, by the Basque Government. As has also been said, Next Generation funds give great importance to digital transformation. The implementation of this strategy aims to promote scientific-technical education and training among Basque students of all stages of education, with special attention given to students, in order to promote the so-called STEM professions. Reference should also be made to the cross-cutting competencies that students have to work within these activities, such as the ability to work in teams, communicative skills or creativity, among others. Given this circumstance, it seems necessary to intervene in knowledge management, insisting on seeking strategies for students to establish interdisciplinary relationships, as well as the appropriate use of this knowledge to solve increasingly complex situations. In this sense, it is intended to intentionally generate situations that allow simultaneous and integrated learning of concepts in the area and the subjects cited in a practical context of problem-solving and design. Therefore, the Department of Education also proposed the STEAMgunea tool, through its location in a web space, as a resource of help and support available to the educational community to contribute to the development of STEM skills, as well as to increase the motivation and attraction of students towards this type of environment, as they are fundamental to their personal and social development. For this purpose, STEAMgunea contains an example that supports the design of STEM plans for all cycles and stages, and serves as a guide for the contextualization of a plan in each center. Thus, it is easy for the faculty of each center to order and articulate the treatment of the STEM domain based on clear and defined objectives to influence the motivation of the student, to understand, obtain and manage the information necessary to achieve the proper resolution of the challenges that is sought. Measures are being taken. And these policies are on our political agenda. There's no doubt about that. That is why we do not think it necessary to create this paper in order to set out, from this Parliament, the guidelines to be followed within a specific comprehensive strategic plan in this area. Because, moreover, it has already been taken into account, not only within the Steam Strategy, but within the Co-education Plan. That is why it was difficult to reach agreement within this point, because, of course, either you agree to create the paper or you do not agree to create the paper. Not at the heart of the matter, because, of course, I believe that all political groups do indeed agree with the importance of this matter. That is why we proposed not to reach agreement, because we felt that we had to support our amendment as a whole. Parliament called on the Basque Government to promote scientific-technical education and training at all stages of education, to inspire professional aspirations in the STEAM field since childhood education, with special attention to students, to prepare students adequately for these future challenges, and to promote the dissemination and scientific-technical culture among Basque citizens, contributing to the integration of women's knowledge and their historical social contribution as one of the basic pillars of the Co-education Plan. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u59	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief, congressmans, good noon to all. Though young or at least I consider myself young, I have often heard them, and many of them who are here, some years ago, some sentences which were in our daily life. And they are still said to be, in a smaller degree, but still to be said. For instance, engineering is a class for boys that nurses only learn to be mechanics, that a girl isn't very good at being mechanical and all. As I said, it's just things that should have been deleted since decades ago. But we can still hear them today. Indeed, there are masculinized professions, gender stereotypes and, in some cases, lack of women's references in the fields of science, innovation and digitization, which cause women to struggle with the possibility of attending such studies, nor can they guide their further professional development from that perspective. The lower presence of women in professions more oriented towards science highlights this reality that I have just reported, since this breeding stock provides, precisely, that from very early ages girls easily discard the existence of a space for them in these areas. And that's where we think we should focus, to inspire professional aspirations in the CTIAM field since childhood education, with special attention to students. We believe that, for instance, in digitalization, I mention the digitization, because in the end this activity is concentrated on it, it is necessary that women should cultivate their wants of presence from their roots, from education, from their education, from their community, and from their formation. Society begins from the mastery of the feminist and equal transformation. For that matter, it's going to run over all the obstacles you're talking about. Science, technology, engineering, art, and mathematics are in the future the necessity of being strategic in the future, and this initiative is intended to enable us to push scientific education and education into all stages of education and education, and to indubitably to this effect. CTIAM education, I will briefly say, has the following characteristics: it combines science, technology, engineering, and humanity; it develops fundamental competitions both indirect and discipline, and it enables the students to resist the roots of our society with care. In the scientific area, and even in the digital transition we have now in hand, we see that the presence of women and the experiences we may have are extraordinary. Therefore, in order to obliterate this deficiency, as I have said, we think we ought to act on the root. According to the strategic furrows like the SYRI, from childhood to childhood to show that this path is open for all of us, even for women and girls. As I have said, regardless of whether we are acting from the bottom up or from the bottom up, with strategies such as the one I have just mentioned, the Basque Government is very aware of the inclusion of women in these scientific fields. And that's what we can check on the government program itself. It says 69 of the government program. Second actions to commit: "To promote scientific vacations and women's side and leadership on the shores of the Euscadian Intelligence strategy, the research projects connected with science and the "kims." That's 94 of the genetic equality. he says in the fifth course of his engagement: "Stricion to strengthen vocations between young women in the field of education so that they may increase the quality of employment." They are also, as I say, included in the government program. Gero, you had doubts about ulertu zuk esan duzunean 2025erako Eraldaketa Digitalerako Estraten ez da aipatzen, baisa aipatu egiten da, within the actions of the government that drive digital transformation, Bertan ere aipatzen da STEAM emakumeen part hartzea. Esan doubt moduan, even the Digital Transformation Strategy 2025 itself of the Department of Economic Development, Sustainability and Environment mentions and promotes this participation of women, enhancing STEAM vocations among women. Because empowerment and increasing the role of women in every sense must be cross-cutting. And this government is very clear, in sight it is. As I'm saying, we have to go through it again and try to build up future scientists. We're going to have to take advantage of the change of value and the ability of women and girls. But besides all that I have said, the gift also has a leading role in the presence and power of women. And that's what you're talking about. Emakunde plays a very important role in empowering and involving women in all spheres of society. Together with the STEAM strategy of the Basque Government, Emakunde promotes and promotes the social and professional participation and empowerment of women, being one of its priority axes. It promotes this equality between men and women also in the professional sphere, through equality plans aimed at enterprises themselves, with the aim of increasing women's participation in the professional sphere, in general, and in companies aimed at innovation and digitisation, in particular. And this important role that starred Emakunde can be seen in the conclusions of the diagnosis, carried out by the Basque Institute of Competitiveness, La Mujer en la Transition Digital en Euskadi. The European WiD index, women in digital, through which it is possible to measure and monitor the presence of women in the economy and in digital societies, places Euskadi in the eighth position, six points above the European average, and this index has been improving over the last few years. Evidently, and even this diagnosis says in its consequences that the situation can be improved and that it is necessary to improve. But I think it's important to mention the location of Europe from Basque. And that position, in order to enable us to set up that position we have now, is an amazing story about Red-Mingerk, including the gift. So, apart from all this, the initiative to increase the women's presence in everyday life and to get to complete equality is also in progress and in the Eukko MUDY's diary they are first-born. For this reason, and as for the end of the action, that is to say, of the production of a ponciation, we do not see the need of it. That's why we'll protect our correction. In fact, the development of different strategies is involved between "Munch" and "Jannies." And we're aware that it works because the facts show us that way, we're on our way. However, I wish to thank them for their honesty in coming to an agreement at last. We agree on the subject, as Gloria said, to make that clear. But we do not think it necessary to do the work which is done by the Government through a power of the legislature, because it is already in motion. 'Cause she's already working on stuff that's primary in her diary, and a lot more. We need to improve the situation. We can't deny that. But we're here now because of the work we've done for the last few years. So let him who is at work, let him who shows positive consequences, and let him continue to work. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. Teams that haven't run any corrections. Basque Popular Group-Ciudados, your word, Mrs Garrido.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief physician, good morning. Congressmen, good morning, again. We agree with what the motives say, but we do not believe that a power is necessary to attain what the motives say, and from this point of view we have made no correction. In the end, we'll support the Euca Party Jaltarian and the Socialist Party, because we think it's the right thing to do in that text, and it's making commitments to the Basque Mitch. It is clear and we share the substance of the issue of the initiative put forward by EH Bildu, which is the need to promote women's participation in certain areas, above all, taking into account the importance of digitization as a strategic sector and that, in fact, there is a deficit of women's professionals, of women, in specific areas such as science, technology, engineering and mathematics, ultimately in the scientific-technical sector. Obviously, with a view to the future, and especially taking into account also the data of the original proposal – I refer to many of the data that have been pointed out by the speakers before me in the use of the word – it is clear that it is an important niche of employment for the future because it is an area in which the greatest economic growth can be produced. There are areas that are clearly very masculinized and we certainly believe that obstacles to access to these posts must be removed. There is nothing more to see than the figures, which have also been said here, which correspond to specialties such as mechanics and electronics. Undoubtedly, it is important to promote training in these areas and also to promote scientific and technical education and training in the different stages of education. In this respect, we do not propose an amendment, because we believe that there may be other avenues, especially because the Basque Government has competence in this area and has a clear scope for action, and especially in view of the commitments made by both the Lehendakari and the Basque Government in this area, because we believe that work can be done and that there are things to be done. In that sense, I don't have much more to add. We will support the amendment tabled by the groups supporting the Government. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u63	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing on the answers, EH Collect, Mrs. Martinez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u64	Thank you, everyone. We've seen that the bet is in the digital modification. You used to mention how much investments, how much money there will be. But the question is: Where are the people who will lead the digital transformation? Where are the professionals? The computer-based telecommunication and engineering factors have to be filled up. Considering the request to come, where will we get them, when the faculty is less and less pupils, and the number of women is so scanty? Who's going to do the industry on the Internet of things? With whom shall we fill the Cyberse Center, the center of the Artificial Intelligence, and all the digital technology? How will this be done when you refuse to play the road page when there is no strategic plan to plunge the women into a digital transformation? It's mentioned again in the Euskakia St.M. strategy, and I'm not going to go back inside any more. I have mentioned it before: He's on his way to education. It's an education, and it's important. And what's done may be put into value, but it's short, it's lame. In this aspect, therefore, we see that it is necessary to make a greater industry. You have also mentioned the program of the government and its initiative. There's more to do about them. Well, I'm going to get in a little bit of Euskadian transform strategy for Digital. The strategy will last until 2025. In this case, it is not yet present, but I have read the 18 indicators in the whole of the strategic plan. 18 Indicator [[Berber]] .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. From 18 to 1 the genus appears in one indicator, the woman appears, and is measured by the number of users on the Internet. That is, it is measured in the user view. There's no man-in-law's measuring device. There is not a single indication of SYM's woman, there is not one of the 18's. And looking at the indicators, we may remark several remarks, but, for example, we mention how many persons there are in the IKT degrees, but it is not related to the genus. I mean, it doesn't matter if they're all boys. And we won't know because it's not measured. And it is not measured how many women are in enterprises, what places they have, care, and resolutions they have. There is no intuition of the effective participation of a woman in a digital modification, none. No sensibility, no measure, no sign, no consequences, no initiative. And that's the strategy that will continue until 2025 years of Euskadic transformation digitally. I'd like to thank Mrs. Ipiñazar for opening the way to conversation. We haven't made any agreement this evening. I hope the roads will be further. We won't accept your proposal, because that's what we're about to do, and we'll keep going like this, and it's not like that. he remains very short. Your proposal is to keep doing what you're doing, so we don't do anything because we're in front of a disruptive transformation. And to get through this we must examine, study, and solve the matter. Ms. ZIAM has been a precursor on a digital transformation. We've seen they've contributed a lot. And we assert that in a digital modification it is necessary to introduce the needs, interests, opinions, experience, and talent, which will ensure the digital modification to be inclutive, to obtain a just and more cohesion of society. Although our legal law will not be approved today, above all obstacles, even from the EH Union, we will be hard on ZTAM and the women to recover the place where they've had a digital transformation. Not to mention, Mrs. González, I'd like to thank you for your attitude, what you've been doing from the beginning and what we've made the same. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. Together Podemos-IU must not speak. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u66	Yeah. Well, briefly. I have already pointed out in my first speech the importance of obviously carrying out policies aimed at promoting these scientific professions among women, the CTIAM professions. And measures have already been put in place in the previous legislature. We, too, have pointed out this in my first speech, and we attach great importance to it. That is why, as Mrs Ipinazar has rightly said, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party have also expressed the need to promote precisely these policies aimed at encouraging these CTIAM professions among women. Mrs Garrido, I am grateful for your support for our amendment as a whole, because it shows that all the groups we have spoken on this point agree on the substance, the need to promote training in these areas and the promotion of the integration of women in the CTIAM professions. Mrs Martinez, Mrs González, let the Basque Government develop and continue to implement its support policies in this area. What you want with the presentation is for the guidelines to be marked from here and then transferred to the Basque Government, within a new specific plan in this area, but actions are already being taken. Policies aimed precisely at achieving this objective are being implemented. That is why we have decided to support the amendment as a whole, and we have not been able to reach an agreement. Although, of course, as I have pointed out, we all agree on the need to adopt policies that promote the participation of women in the CTIAM professions. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u67	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Ipiñazare mustn't speak a word. We don't need to talk about it. [[Pause]] End of discussion, we're gonna vote for EH Collect and together the middle-direction signed by the Podemos-IU teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 44; 75; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 48; the abstainations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u68	So we're not supposed to accept the half-path correction. Next, we vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and of the Eunciators. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 44; 75; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 21; Abstations 7; white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u69	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Pull together the other bill of parliamentary groups, with the subjective right of housing, on the families which live in the living homes of vegetables. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the proposed team, representative of the EH Collect team, Mr Fernandez de Betocho, is your word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u70	Good noon, everyone. In the Basque Autonomy Union, 6,100 family units have been admitted to the subjective right of housing, since the 2015 Housing Act was approved. The families who profess the subjective right of housing are vulnerable, as well as they are highly economically restricted. In the year, it's the only people who charge below 9,000 euros, or the two families that charge 1,000 Euro, or the three-year-old families. We all need certainty, of course, but perhaps it would be said that those in vulnerable circumstances need certainty more especially, for example, those connected with their own dwellings. The families that are decent may be very anxious to leave their homes, or note them. Because they're more social and economic than our families, they see the red street. It cannot happen that these families receive a letter which says they must leave what has been their residence for five years. It may be possible that other cases should be examined, but if, at least, it has been given the subjective right of the housing to those families, or if they are in a position to acknowledge that right, we think they ought not to receive that letter. It's just as simple as that we're asking for. Let the maximum period of five years in public life not be taken notice of for families who have the subjective right of housing, or for those who are in a state of being admitted to that right. And so let's not let these vulnerable families have a dramatic order to leave the house. It's true that we don't know of such a fire. We have not heard that a man, who has a subjective right to the housing, has been driven out of a life of growth, fortunately. But there have been threats, or, more or less, official reports. Yes, we have heard of unpleasant correspondences like this. There have been some who have been informed of the subjective right of housing for five years, and some of them were in a position to be admitted. It's true they didn't go out, but they got an announcement. As a matter of fact, this occurred in the habits of public service in Hernanic Sagasti, in September 2020, as it spread in October. The lease told the 14-year-old family that they had the maximum period and had to leave the house. And the half of it, the seven families, before or just after the announcement, was confessed to the subjective right of the housing. So, we think, and that's what we're proposing here, those cases shouldn't apply for the maximum five years, and they wouldn't have to send an announcement to the Housing Department until they offered a social rental housing. This proposal, of course, is not legally applicable to our present regulation, and we have also proposed a new decree of regulating the habits of public life, and of establishing such an exception to the persons who live in the dwellings of the fibres, and who have a subjective right to acknowledge it, even to those who are in a position to acknowledge it, not knowing the maximum of five years, until they have offered a social rentage. There have been similar problems in some of the houses of the Donostian Oppression. And we have a feeling that in the future there will be more trouble with the habits of growth. Why do we say that? Well, because they're doing a lot of things lately, and they're using more and more to settle some situations that life in the drilling house wasn't originally planned. EAE, at the moment, there are about 600 boring homes and a thousand more constructions. I mean, in a few months, there'll be more than 1,600 of the boring. On account of the fact that, today, when you're in charge of 15,000 social rental housing houses, the Department, the Lifelands, the ASAP programs, and the municipal officials have left them together, it's about 1,600% of the rental housing lives that have been managed by the corporations. So it's a very significant sum. And it's possible to multiply the problems that occurred in Sagastido or Inchaurrondon. And there'll probably be other problems, because at first the life of the drilling company was especially planned for young people, but in the past few years the avananic has spread out a great deal, and in some case, perhaps, too much. And the typeology of the drilling doesn't work for all kinds of families, because it's important to remind you that the life of the woodhouses is not housing, but the borings are public equipment. Some special types of equipment were designed to give a temporary rental release, 15 years ago. At first, as I have said, they were especially created for young men. When we say young, we're talking about 36 years below, at least that's where it's settled. The idea was that, as long as we found something more stable, we could give them the impression that they were working like a bridge. This is why the architectic model is almost that of a student office. Small flats, between 25 and 60 square meters available, with an open kitchen room, a toilet and a single bedroom, or, in some cases, two bedrooms. The water and the gas are deposited in the quota of the rent, and this fee is generally between 200-300 euros a month, always according to family ingresus. It is clear, therefore, that they are to give a temporary solution until we have a house or something in the social rent. And as they are spreading their constructions and their use, we believe it is a good time to make a new decree, to make it clear to the near future, to make many new matters about them. Urbanistic situation in the growth hospital: EH is not supposed to be any longer public equipment, but use and users must also explain whether the quadratics should be changed or not, and so on. This new decree, of course, would include the exception which has been proposed: that the families, or those who have the subjective right of housing, should not be expelled until the term of five years' absence, should be supported by a social rental. And the new decree would also come to make, at least, a sort of arrangement, and order, which is scattered through at least five different regulations. What are these five rules? First of all, there would be a regulation by which the life of art was founded-the law of the Earth of 2006. After that, they developed more in the Juridically in the House of Public Protection in 2008, and in it their features were expressly regulated, for instance, to remain in it for five years. In fact, they developed themselves in a subvantically at the St. 2012 State Decretion, and just now it changes or reforms. The 2015 Housing Act also touched 23rd and 24. in articles. And then the Decree 210/2019 the Decree determined the coups that should be used at the time of the bracken. This new decree, therefore, may be made in some measure agreeing with these five regulations. We believe it would be a good idea to unite these regulations in a new decree, as I have said, without ever troubling the nature of the public equipment. And that's our proposition. To make an exception in the case of the most vulnerable families, to the maximum period of being able to stay in the public quarters, and to regulate this exception, and to make a new decree for other matters, and to illustrate it. A simple proposition, if you like, but thought of the builder and the people who live in the habits of furniture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u71	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the popular Basque Group, representative of Ciudadans, Mrs. Larrea, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u72	This is not the first time we have talked here about accommodation and it is not the first time we have come here to discuss the difficulties that families today have in finding or rather in paying for decent housing. Something must have been done wrong, and this is not the first time you have heard me say these things, something must have been done wrong when we have been behind on social practices for more than 30 years with respect to the rest of Europe. And steps have been taken, and it is good to take steps, but it is also necessary to observe the results of the policies adopted to see if they are on the right track and to solve the problems of the Basques that we envisage in order to implement this type of aid system. In sight it remains, and in the sight of everyone; we realize that something fails and that we cannot find the solution to alleviate the problems of families today to find a decent home, to get to pay for it. Before yesterday we all read in the press that 4,000 families have been granted the right, the recognition to a decent home. Therefore, people, families who do not get a social rental home, because they are recognized with a CVP and if they can enter a free ADA, they will enter. What's the problem? The problem is that, as Mr Fernandez de Betoño has already said, for a living unit of one person 9,000 euros of income are calculated, for a living unit of two it is 12,000 and for a living unit of three it is 15,000 euros. And we're going to do the old one's account, the numbers: when you earn 9,000 euros a year and you're alone, well, because you can try with 250 help to get into an ADA, you can get to live and buy yourself the food and expenses you have to travel to work and earn that 9,000 euros a year. When there are two, it can become a small house, it can become the low price, and you can live. But when there are already three members of the living unit, we are scarce with 15,000 euros. And this is so, and you will tell me: less gives a stone, we have laid the groundwork to try to help families who may be at risk of exclusion and who cannot get to have a decent home, we are giving them help, we are putting our granite sand. But what's the problem? That there are more families who do not enter that range of action, who will continue to have difficulty paying for the rent of a house or to access a house, and we do nothing, because we have not completely reconsidered the system of social assistance in Euskadi. Our group has been saying for a long time that we must do a restructuring, a rethinking of social aid to give people the first thing they need, which is a decent housing, because it is very good to try to have a regeneration of the population pyramid, to turn it around, to invest it, and it turns out that we can't have children because we don't have houses of more than one room, because we can't afford them. It's just this whole thing is a circle. From a very different point of view, we have all realized that there is a problem and that we are willing to solve it. My amendment was also in the sense of exceptionality, and I have always believed that from the administrations we must promote equity with our citizens, and in this work we must create exceptions such as those that are being called for today in this GNP presented by Mr Fernandez de Betaño. Reading the transaction to which the PNV, PES, Bildu and Podemos groups have come, we are going to support it, because I believe that right now it is what we have to do not to leave families in the anguish of not knowing where they will have their property, where they will be able to sleep, where they will be able to make their life in the coming months, in the coming years. But what has become clear and evident is that the ADA system, which were housing for young people, to give them time to reorganize themselves, to have a work settlement that allows them to access the free market, is not working, because many families are left behind and they are not capable. So, the way to deal with the housing problem in Euskadi we are not doing well and I think we should take a full turn. In that restructuring they will find us and we will be able to move forward. Today we are going to vote in favour of this compromise, of the agreement you have reached, because it seems to us that it is the solution and that we cannot have families who are sent a letter to tell them that they have to leave an ADA immediately because they have fulfilled a deadline, because life is not measured in time, but in experiences and needs. Therefore, in this I think that is enough, we are going to vote in favour of the compromise reached in the agreement, but with a global reflection on what we need to do and what policies we need to push to help our families live much better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Together, Podemus-IU, Martnezion, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u74	Yes, thank you. Good afternoon. We have a discussion on the table about the rights of persons and families who live in habits of education, and we have also a settled arrangement, a good compact, but a simple arrangement. We thought the original initiative was very interesting, the initiative introduced by Mr Fernandez de Betño, but we even made our highlights and our contributions. Our reading on the subject we are dealing with, on the subject of endowment accommodation is that we have a latent contradiction in Euskadi with these dwellings, since we have the Housing Law of 2015, but there is a previous regulation by which the endowment accommodation was created in 2006 and we also have the decree of 2008, which have not been updated with the new Housing Law and which generate contradictions. Our view, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita, is that the Housing Act should prevail, in any case, over the decree establishing five years of stay in this type of accommodation, because we know that in any case they are temporary accommodation, as has already been explained here, but, at the same time, in the Housing Act the subjective right to housing is recognized and therefore we say that it must prevail against other considerations that are of lower rank, in this case, through a decree. In other words, we believe that the material, human and legal security of persons eligible to benefit from the subjective right to housing must be guaranteed. If there is no other housing available, in our opinion, they should stay in that accommodation. It seems to us, in fact, an absurd situation to grant an economic benefit or an alternative other than housing. As much as we're talking about housing, we're talking about a home for those families, a temporary home, which is what we really care about, meeting those people's rights. In other cases, few move from benefit to housing, logically, that is the system that needs to be put in place: moving from benefit to housing. But it makes no sense to lose a dwelling, a home, by a decree that, I insist, is of lower rank than the Housing Act that recognizes subjective right. That is why, in our amendment, we also urged the department to guarantee the subjective right to housing for persons who so acknowledge it, and also for persons who qualify for it, following article 9 of the Housing Act and not applying, as I said, the regulations if it violates the literal content of that law. In addition, as I said and as explained above, accommodation is temporary accommodation and a maximum of five years has been set, but I must insist that it should not be applied if the Administration cannot guarantee housing to the person or the living unit living in that dwelling. By way of example, the Urban Leases Act now sets seven years in case the rents are from legal entities – but I see they say no to me. However, as far as the agreement is concerned, we would have liked that the phrase "as far as possible" not to appear in that agreement, but that housing should be guaranteed, provided that there is no housing alternative, for persons who lose such accommodation and who have the right or the ability or conditions to be recognized with that subjective right, it cannot be that, for socio-economic reasons, someone who does not have an alternative will be deprived of accommodation in Euskadi. We hope that this agreement will serve to advance the Government's action on this issue. We know – and the proposing group has also explained this – that at least there have been no forced evictions in this type of housing, but there have been problems with warnings, with letters that put people in a tense situation. It's normal, because they're talking about their home, their home, even if they don't have the legal housing category, we're talking about homes. The same with the last point. We believe that in our amendment we were more specific, but, well, we hope, and so does the agreement that we have reached between the four groups, that this type of accommodation should be regularly updated on the basis of what is also provided for in the legislation itself, and that all mechanisms should seek to guarantee rights on a permanent basis without trip along the way, without tripping in the transit from accommodation to accommodation or to a situation of uncertainty. That is what we have to avoid, because we are talking about people with very vulnerable socio-economic conditions, as we all know. Therefore, as is logical and normal, we support this agreement, a concrete agreement, a simple agreement that seeks in its points to promote the work of the Government and, above all, to guarantee the rights of the people who are enjoying these provident accommodation in those homes and who need such support from public institutions in order to be able to further develop their lives in dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u75	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u76	Thank you, chief of the table, chief of the department, members of the legislature, all good days. The accommodation for rent, which originates from the Basque Soil and Urbanism Law of 2006, was born as a property product different from the traditional social housing for rent protected, from the point of view of its technical characteristics and typology as well as the management of the rent itself. With the gifted accommodation, it was intended to promote innovation, both in its design and in its use and in its administration. Instead of income, a fee is paid for their occupation and for the consumption of services. It does not allow permanent residence and have a rotational character with a temporary limited stay of five years for the same living unit. The claim was and remains, therefore, to promote a different product that caters to different needs: emancipation of young people, emergency situation, as may be the case of women victims of gender-based violence, natural disasters, disasters, temporary relocations... If a permanent residence of cohabitation units were systematically allocated, resources would not be available to deal diligently with the variety of circumstances that require a ceiling for a limited but immediate period of time. Its rotational character was and is directly related to the equipment's endowment. In the long term, it is perfectly possible for the municipalities to revoke their initial concessions and that these soils can recover their initial uses, so that they are not a good structural solution forever, or at least do not legally have that guarantee of permanence. Therefore, the accommodation facilities have a perfect fit as a prominent instrument of housing policy aimed at giving more immediate solutions to pressing problems of special groups of applicants, but temporarily, thus giving time to solve more substantive issues through more structural solutions in the form of a permanent public park for rent. This temporary solution is systematically communicated to each of the persons accessing these accommodation units, and they therefore know that the necessary rotation becomes necessary at the age of five. There is no lack of knowledge of reality. At least six months before the end of the contract, they are informed, and if they choose to sue for new public housing through Etxebide, they are recovered from the day on which they entered into the accommodation, thus allowing their access in case of the circumstances required of the CPV, and if they do not provide consistency to their real options in the new rental auctions of the Etxebide system, since the seniority in registration is a relevant requirement in the schemation used in the processes of awarding new and used houses of public initiative. Finally, and since the entry into force of the Housing Act, the commitment is always made to relocate those who have recognized the subjective right and live in accommodation facilities. If we take as a reference the final evaluation of the 2018-2020 Housing Master Plan, we can have a good X-ray of the efficiency derived from the housing policies that we Basque Socialists have led in the coalition government, both in the past legislature and in the present. Two thousand twenty, the last year of implementation of the plan, has been marked by the pandemic and its health, economic and social effects. Exceptional measures have been taken by the Department of Housing to alleviate these effects on persons in situations of economic vulnerability. Measures such as exemption from the payment of protected public rents and aid for the payment of rent for free housing. Two thousand and twenty have therefore conditioned the results of the year and the overall results of the plan, but still, in general terms, compliance has been high and shows commitment so that no one will be left behind. During this period, 2,053 new rental homes have been built, 75% of the planned 2,725. At this point, it has not been achieved because private initiative and local authorities have not met their intended objectives. The Bizigune programme has exceeded the target of 6,400 empty houses captured; in particular, it has reached 6,451. In 2016, when the Socialists entered to manage the Department of Housing there were 4,499 housing units in the program. Aid to the most vulnerable households in the form of supplementary housing and economic housing benefits has far exceeded the target of 28,750 recipients and has reached 33,870. Households with the recognized subjective right to housing have been 6,137, 88% of the projected 7,000. The protected rental park has reached 25,823 homes, accounting for 33.6% of the rental housing park in Euskadi. This figure is well above the target of 22,000 housing units. In 2016, there were 20,510 housing units and a rental housing stock quota of 26 %. Assignment of housing to third sector organizations and other administrations: 137. This accounts for 137% of the implementation of housing alternative programmes. At launch, 81; this accounts for 135% of compliance. And in the face of gender-based violence, 93: 155% compliance. They have all been clearly above the targets set. In addition, the Gaztelagun programme was launched in 2019, which has been talked about for a long time during what we have been in the legislature. Between 2014 and September 2020 in Spain started the construction of 8,298 sheltered rental homes. And Euskadi is the second autonomous community that began, with 2,397, only behind the Community of Madrid, which almost triples us in number of inhabitants. In relative terms, it should be noted that between 2014 and 2020 Euskadi has begun the construction of 2.6 sheltered dwellings per 1,000 main dwellings, a ratio higher than that recorded in the rest of the autonomous communities. The second is Navarra, with a ratio of 1.8. This assessment, once again, of course, shows the leadership of the Basque Socialists in the implementation of effective housing policies that make it possible for no one to stay behind. And of course they highlight the implementation of alternatives so that those most vulnerable people have a housing alternative when circumstances worsen. Of course, I believe that the agreement that we have reached today by the groups that have signed this compromise agreement is important. And it is important that other groups that have not signed it also join. But after listening to Mrs Larrea's speech, I have a doubt. I would like to know what is the formula of hardness that causes you to have such a hard face. How is it possible for you to allow us to learn about the right or access or the requirements for access to housing for those who have recognized the subjective right to housing? How do you allow yourself to give us these lessons when you were precisely a group that opposed the recognition of the subjective right to housing, when you were precisely opposed to having a housing law in Euskadi that precisely promotes, enables the citizens of this country to have that right? Please, I would like to know what the formula is, because, of course, it would be a great advance for the science of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u77	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u78	Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, members of the legislature, I think we're already able to say good evening. Mr. Fernandez de Betoulo has settled the subject. It's not right to call these living places affluent by law. These places, morally and regulated, and where they are, you have established their origin. The spokesman of the Populative Party has said that we've talked about this many times before, but I think at least this law and the previous day we've had exactly a discussion about the habits of life. I think it's the first time, at least it didn't fit me. And we have discussed the domestic policy in its generality, but this is a special product, I think, within the general housing policy. And, well, somehow, they're important to have this discussion right now. They don't consider it a flat. This is one of the characteristics of their character. It's just temporary, it's another one. From the very beginning they act as an alternative, and capable of working through two formulas. On the one hand, the municipal towns might have lands for equipment, but those which might not have been used for this equipment could have been used to build such buildings. And then in the townships above 20,000 populations a standard in new developments. And that somehow helps the housing policy when it's time to complete a park with stability in the process of building a park. But it is true, among these peculiarities, that they have not stability, but that the mill is one of their characters, and is not a permanent abode for those persons or families who live there. They don't pay a rent, they pay a canon. The services in these buildings are often shared. You said they're like studentsides, because they're very small apartments, for one person, for one person, for two, the families have difficulty in living in such habits of life as these. I was in charge of the rental, and I was able to manage such a place. And the contracts are made for a year at the most, and then they can be extended to five years of prostitutes. Even that shift makes specials. That's why you were right to say that those of you who spoke before me are partly directed to young men. Then Mr. Ainduza said that these places are prepared to give a quick answer to the case of emergency. But it is true that years pass away; if you live in a place like this for five years by means of these proxus, there is also some stability for that family, and it cannot be prolonged. And that was a little what you proposed in other ways than your own, what to do with it. And that's where the subjective right is introduced to us, the subjective right to the housing. I think the Alocal is managing our housing park with enough care. Mr. Donalza has also said: From the very beginning they are informed that this dwelling which has been assigned to them or adapted to them is not a social housing, that it is not the same condition, that it lasts a year, that extensions will be, and that they will be for the most part capable of existing for nearly five years. And they know that from the very beginning. Then we know that when the time comes to get out of it, there may also be anxiety for many families or people. But I think, as a matter of management, those warnings are done six months before. Mr. Donalza has also said it. What about dramas? I think management is done fairly well, and that the Alocal means know what kind of person you have the opportunity to meet at that moment, with all your desire to avoid these dramas. We made an agreement today. It is true, perhaps, that we ought to make a regulation, that we ought to consider how these dwellings have been managed so far, and really to update them. I agree with that, I see it well. I don't know if it's supposed to be a decree, but it's a specific rule to be managed in the right way. I think, if those who live in it have a subjective right, it must be considered, and, of course, I don't see it amiss to have an opportunity of spending a little more time beyond five years in those dwellings until another apartment is available. So I think the deal is good. I am grateful to you for having brought this discussion about this subject, because it may, perhaps, give occasion to make us a little acquainted with this particular dwelling-place, which lies in the midst of all this housing park, because it may not be very well known to many. If it's important and I think it's important to young people that they also have their importance in the domestic policy we're going to make for them. Because they have an opportunity for giving birth, or at least as a first opportunity to live outside their parents' homes, without forgetting that other serious situations can be solved by them. So, congratulations on the agreement we've made. The spokesman from the Polula Party said he would protect him. Actually, I didn't quite understand what you said. I don't know, at least, the 9,000 euros, 15,000 euros, are reckoned as the one-man, two, or three, to give subjective right to families, to give subjective right to the housing. I think you said living with that money isn't easy. That's why, because it's not easy, these little families are helping. When you spoke, you seemed to be helping them. No, that's the amount of money that's used as criteria to help. And for a moment, I thought you'd gotten a little confused. Still, it's a good thing to hear from you, too. And if we look forward to this sort of business, let's keep on coming to the agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. We'll take the answers turn. Stand by the EH team, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u80	Yes, hello, again. Very short. I mean, on the second round, I'm happy with the deal we made. I am grateful to the representatives of the parties who have entered the agreement, especially to the Arrezes of Adez, for the good conduct of the negotiation in order to obtain the Middles. The middle term is not what we demanded in words in another proposition than our own, but we believe that the mind has been well maintained, since the medium confesses, if it were indirectly intended, there is a problem in the lives of the fibres, and that the two enterprises which we demanded of us in our original proposition. First of all, not counting the maximum five-year-old period of people and families who live in the flats and have acknowledged or confessed the subjective right of housing, until the Administration finds a rental social house. And secondly, to make this exception lawful, and make a decree to make several other points, which are connected with the life of art, and to make it clear. It's true that two middle-class modulators have finally come in. In the first place, this "as far as possible" will be extended to these persons and families by the use of this modulo. On the other hand, the "laws of necessity" have been received, and not expressly a decree. Anyway, we're in an agreement because we think it's going a good way and it's giving you a buzz of hankering around living. We'll continue from collecting EH to bring in construction initiatives, and, more especially, we'll continue to push the 2015 Housing Act so that it can be rapidly developed by all its tools. Because we see it's just because it's just because I'm just saying that it takes a push to get out of earshots and push the initiatives forward in this strategic issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u81	Thank you, Mr. Fernandez de Betoño. The Basque Popular Group-Ciudadnos representative, Mrs. Larrea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u82	Thank you. Look, I'm going to tell you clearly that when I was talking about 9,000, 12,000 and 15,000 euros of income, I knew it was the scale that was taken into account to recognize the subjective right to housing. What I wanted to say, and maybe I didn't express myself well, is that it's a low barmo, we settle with little. But it's okay. We're about to get better. I think continuous improvement, I said a while ago, is one of the keys to my way of working. Mr Andueza, I have had little time in this Parliament, but I am aware of how people are working. You like to get into disqualification. It's okay. You don't know me, really, and I don't have hard skin. It's okay, I admit it, everyone has his character, I'm quieter. I can tell you that the law to which you refer not only voted against the group to which I am a party. It is a law that comes forward and we assume it, because we are part of Basque society, we have to assume all the laws that come out. But once it is in force, we also have the right to say that it should be improved. No, you can do as much grace as you want, you can laugh, but do you mind if it evolves? Does it bother you? Well it seems to be, because you feel hurt every time I do some intervention that doesn't go in the way you expect, but nothing happens, we are to improve. The People's Party, and already leaving this issue, I, the People's Party-Citizens, because I am speaking right now, I recognize that things are being done, that have been done, but it is nothing to say that they have to be improved. The ADAs are provideable accommodation for young people in which it is difficult to live when they already have children, Mrs Berasaluze has said, of course, but it is also true that families must be given an opportunity, people must be given an opportunity to be able to join the free market and, if they cannot join the free market, this Government, which has housing competence, will have to do everything possible to build social rental housing necessary to accommodate these people. And we'll have to make an effort. And on that path we'll meet. You are very surprised, but very surprised, but nothing happens, because it is about being able to reach agreements and politics is a constant evolution and it is about facing a real problem for the citizens of Euskadi. And that's where we're gonna meet. We have very different views, but we are going to solve the problems of the citizens of Euskadi. And I'm going to tell you something else, you feel very comfortable when you talk about the goals you have achieved, but go tell the families who receive a letter saying they have to leave a house in six months, that they see the difficulty of not being able to access another house because they have economic difficulties or because their economic scale does not arrive to rent another house, and with the 250 euros given to them from PCV when the subjective right to housing is recognized does not reach them to find something else, their satisfaction will not make them feel more calm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. There's no need to talk with Podemus together. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u84	Thank you, ma'am. Well, I, Mr Fernandez de Betoño, think it is important, and I am also glad that we have been able to reach an agreement. Of course, I too am grateful to the other groups that have participated in this agreement, because I believe that there has been a sincere will to achieve it, and that also shows good evidence that there are parliamentary groups that are moving in the right direction in trying to improve our instruments and tools so that no one is left behind. I do not think we have a problem, what I do think we do have is the moral duty and the need to try to improve as much as possible so that, in fact, not a single family has any kind of difficulty. Mrs Larrea, look, I don't mind when someone disagrees with what I think, it's more, when you disagree with what I think, I ratify much more in my ideas. I would start to worry that I would think just like you, because then that would mean that I no longer agree with my ideals. But what I don't like is that the truth is missing and that you come here with a demagogic speech to say things that aren't. And to me it seems very good that you want to come here to make a goodist speech, in which everything may seem great, but the reality is that it is and you voted what you voted here, and that is such an objective reality that it somehow prevents you from coming here to make certain speeches. You cannot say that we settle with little, but for you what is little? But have you stopped to think about what housing policies you have in the autonomous communities you lead? Have you stopped to think and make a simple comparison? Try to analyze. Look, I'm going to give you one piece of information, look for a single autonomous community led by the People's Party in which there is a housing law, I no longer tell you with the subjective right to have that housing, that there is a housing law. You want me to tell you how many? None. You say that here there are people who have reached a point have no alternatives, and that is missing the truth. Because all those people who come to this situation from the Housing Department are offered a housing alternative. And there are very few people, except in very extreme cases, who remain helpless. Do you know what alternatives are offered by the People's Party governments in the autonomous communities, virtually all of them, when a person reaches those extremes? You want me to tell you what the alternative is? The street, the street, that's his alternative, and those are his policies. Look, the next time you come to this rostrum to make such a speech I'm going to ask you, out of respect for this House, and above all out of respect for the citizenry, to inform, analyze, compare, as the announcement said, if you find a community led by the People's Party that has something better than what we have here, bring it. Offer it to us, so that we can improve the instruments. But please, don't be so demagogic... No, no. Don't be so demagogic. And make sure that from your party, with the internal instruments you have, and now that you are leading the Gipuzkoa People's Party, in all those internal bodies that you have in the People's Party, you carry the law, you carry the instruments, you carry the housing policies we have in Euskadi so that, at least, the citizens of the rest of Spain have something to hold onto when they stay on the street. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u85	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. The discussion is over. We're going to vote for EH Collect, together with Podemos-IU, Euskal Socialists, and the Middle Amendment that is signed by the Equibertarians. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly are 43; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 73; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 1; white, 0.1,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u86	So we have to accept the half-path correction. Five point in theme list: "The other proposal of the popular group of Euscals, as made by the parliamentary band of Céranos, was to appear in more textbooks, and to acknowledge the role of euscal history. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Gil, the word is yours to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u87	Thank you, Madam President. We conclude this plenary today with a proposal that we bring with us with the aim of giving back to women the leadership they have really had in history. Let us begin by recognizing that historically women have been socially relegated, so that they have been denied and hindered participation in the different historical, political and cultural events that have been reserved for men. It is not, therefore, difficult to understand: neither have they had the opportunity to pass on to history. But, moreover, they have been subjected to double marginalization when their contribution, conquered on the basis of courage, dignity and great efforts and personal renunciation, has been ignored and practically erased from history. That is why it seems to us fair to claim its role in history, making its contribution visible. And although there are many areas where the contribution of women must be remembered, today we bring to this House a humble but symbolic proposal to increase the presence of women in textbooks. And it is that the content of textbooks is much more important than it seems to be in plain sight, because, through them, we not only transmit knowledge. We transmit, above all, values and paradigms, models of thought, frameworks that configure the behavior of our students, because they configure their beliefs. It is true that our educational legislation advocates equality, but still many teaching materials continue to reflect the stereotypes of today's society, and it is difficult to find in them female referents. An important study on this subject is the doctoral thesis carried out in 2014 by Ana López Navajas at the University of Valencia, which showed that the presence of women in textbooks was only 7.6%; we find this small percentage scandalous. In some specialties, the mention was even less: 5% in mathematics; 1% in technology and computer science, for example. 1 %. The thesis found that there was a systematic exclusion of women from content, as well as a lack of female references to their important and continuous cultural contributions in all areas. Surely, if we had been able to investigate more in depth why this data, perhaps we would have found that the editors of the textbooks themselves are not women, and surely that is why they have ignored this reality. But this fact implies for the students the lack of knowledge of basic feminine references and, therefore, that we are transmitting to them an amputated and impoverished cultural collection. At the same time, this lack of explicit cultural recognition implies for women an unacceptable social undervaluation that negatively conditions them, preventing their individual development on equal terms. Women thus become second-class citizens, and students leave the ESO with the belief that women have done nothing relevant, and that they are marginal figures in the history of science and culture. All this puts the education system in question, since it fails to fulfil two of its explicit objectives and purposes in the law: the transmission of basic cultural references and education on an equal footing. The cultural tradition of women's creation, as the numerous studies of women in recent decades have founded, covers all areas of knowledge and doing. They extend continuously from the most remote antiquity in an essential cultural reference. However, it is hardly known. It is necessary today, from here, to highlight models, such as that of the donostiarra Felisa Martín, the first doctor in Physics of Spain, in 1926, and the first Basque meteorologist, which can serve as inspiration for the students to be guided by STEM studies, science, technology, engineering and mathematics. Today we must also remember the humanist Maria de Maeztu, who is mentioned only once in a fourth-grade book of ESO; the writer Bizenta Mogel; the tonedillera Aurora Jauffret, born in Bilbao in 1891; the writer Maria Mestayer de Echagüe; Maria Goiri, the first woman to obtain a doctorate in Philosophy and Literature in 1909; the correspondent Cecilia de Guilarte, born in Toulouse; Concepción Andrés Picado, famous international film star in the 1930s, known as Conchita Montenegro, born in San Sebastián in 1911; the journalist Francisca de Aculodi; photographer Eulalia Abaitua; Casilda de Iturrizar; the soprano Josefa Cruz de Gassier; poet Matilde Orbegozo; Rafaela Ybarra; Olivia Martínez, the racquetista known as Txikita de Ano. They are just a few names of women who excelled in one field or another and are absent from textbooks. Then it's not that there isn't, it's that we've deleted them, it's that we've ignored them. Therefore, we can talk about stolen history or, copying the title of the work carried out by Miren Antzane Egiluz, The story ignored. A vision on the role of women in Hernani's public life. Today it's about getting that story back a little bit and giving all these excellent women the role and historical leadership they deserve. Without them one cannot fully understand Basque history, but without its contributions one cannot understand the history of painting, music, science, medicine or opera. As Ana López Navajas says: "The exclusion of women's contributions to history is a major cultural loss and a lack of rigour." Therefore, this is not a proposal that goes against anyone, once again, it is a proposal that goes in favour of our students, of the quality of their education, and it is a proposal that we believe of justice with women – cause I suppose we all share in this House. And in that spirit we have proposed a possible compromise to the parties that support the Government, but I regret to say that we have met with a wall. His best offer was to reduce this proposal to seven words, seven, "renouncing inclusion in the curriculum", and add three more points of his harvest. That is to say, the always bring it on the part of the roller "if you want an agreement you must give up all your views and accept mine, because in any case my proposal will be approved". This is not to negotiate, it is not to be open to contributions, this is not to integrate the opposition, as they said, this is to apply the parliamentary roll, because I want and because I can. There was room for negotiation. I mean, I understand that the fundamental difference that has separated us has been the incorporation into the curriculum. I don't understand why you don't want to incorporate this into the curriculum. For us it is important to incorporate it into the curriculum for a reason, because, if not, it stays in water of drunkards, because, if not, nothing is achieved; because, if not, it is nothing more than a mere declaration, and we would once again be wasting time. I understand that incorporating it into the curriculum is not easy or fast, but neither are we proposing it with a time requirement, you can reach an agreement on dates, deadlines, whatever it is, but we would like to have seen, and we would like to see still – and hopefully we are on time – a bit of will on this for this to really fit into something concrete. Look, your proposal, your amendment does not seem bad to us, but it seems to us that it is insufficient, it seems to us that it remains in nothing, it seems to us that it is once again doing something to make it seem like we are doing something, but then leaving it in almost nothing. It is a shame that on such a white subject as this, as well-intentioned and constructive, there is such an uncollaborative attitude, but it is very significant of what its real attitude is. On the other hand, we have a compromise amendment which also insists on making a presentation on this. Well, anyway, we already know what we think about the papers, they seem basically a huge waste of time and money. It's not that we don't know what to do, therefore, the paper for what? If what needs to be done is relatively simple, it is relatively easy, what needs to be done is to do it. Do not spend now three years or two years in a paper, listening to contributions from each other, in order, in the end, to reach any conclusion, to the same point where we are today or not to reach anything. And it is true that we are again in a well-intentioned position, but, look, we are determined that these things move forward and that these things become real initiatives, that something be done about it. And what can we really do to incorporate the role of women in textbooks? So incorporate it, basically incorporate it and propose it through, indeed, the curriculum, with the time you want, in whatever time you want, as you can, as you should, but if there is will, let's do it because, if not, it remains in a mere declaration of intentions that, I repeat, will not go anywhere. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u88	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, together the representative of the Podemos-IU, Mrs. González, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u89	Thank you, ma'am. Good afternoon and almost good evening, congressmen. Go ahead that this initiative is linked to the defence that my parliamentary group makes of co-education as a feminist principle that must govern the entire education system from childhood to higher education, relying on that defense for universal, secular and free public education as a democratic guarantee for the whole population. As I say, from my group we are committed to a full economic and human endowment for our public education system and we advocate the incorporation of the feminist perspective in the contents, but also in the practices of the centres. Because it is a little ironic that we are discussing the inclusion of more women referents in the school curriculum when this same plenary still does not show unanimity in ending gender segregation in educational institutions, because they cannot be understood as actions disconnected from each other. This is the result of believing that the commitment to equality can be made in a moderate or patchy way or as long as it is not uncomfortable for us. We share the starting point of the initiative proposed by the PP-Citizens group, because we also share the main conclusions that derive from the doctoral work to which they refer in the justification, but what we do not share is that, to begin with, as in many other issues, a laundering is done and excluded at all times, even in the language used in the justification of this initiative, that what is absent from the curriculum is not only the presence of women referents, but that the most serious absence is that of the cultural, political and knowledge acquis that feminism and feminist pedagogies suppose for a society that continues to perpetuate an androcentric vision of the world. And it does so through the field that plays a key role in the prevention and eradication of inequalities, education. As Sofia Castañón pointed out: "For a society to have women referents, it is essential to have knowledge of the history of feminism and that feminism be studied in schools". We have a problem in our academic curriculum. With the absence of our creators, our scientists and our policies, the memory of our feminist pioneers has been erased. Francoism, during 40 years of dictatorship, wiped out all of that. Of course, there was a time in the 20th century, in this country, where women had a presence that we had to recover some time later. But, look, we are not going to think that patriarchy was originally and usually framed by Francoism, or by the deletion of the contributions of women in history, in which it is written with capital letters. We, at the state level, in the State Pact against Gender Violence, argued that there had to be equality measures and that we do not have to go to the moment when violence is manifested, but to the whole broth of cultivation that makes all that violence come out. I mean, inequality. In other words, not only women, but we also have knowledge of the history of feminism. It cannot be that when we study the nineteenth century, we study the workers' movement, socialism, Marxism and not the history of feminism, apart from the academic curriculum. The problem is that a theory of political thought is being obviated, when others are not obviated. And they do teach you, for example, what capitalism is, what ecology is. And it is obviating, not because these things happen without more, but in a way, first, deliberate, and then unconscious by most of the population. We cannot forget in our books to which you mentioned, but also Simone de Beauvoir, Kate Millet, Angela Davis, Assata Shakur at Concepción Arenal, Clara Campoamor, Federica Montseny and so many others. It's a loss for all of us. We have an urgent task to solve with our feminist memory and with our genealogy. And we have it in all areas, because women have been participating and building proposals for the future and present in all areas of life. So we do not share that we want to link this initiative to the increase of references in a single space or educational content. But, above all, we do not understand that we want to move that it is a matter of including only more women's names, without appreciating that we are not talking about a political transformation to weight, but about quality. Because this means obviating that we must also look at what kind of reference is in the textbooks, whether they are primary or secondary, or whether we are only willing to recognize a type of reference of women, because those who were collective, those who were unconformist, the uncomfortable, those who brought to the critical review of the world in which we lived, those who transgressed with their body and sexuality, those are also going to leave them out again. Because it is necessary to talk about the 11 of Basauri and its struggle for the right to abortion. It is necessary to talk about the handmaidens of Bilbao, the teachers of pedagogical missions or the first feminist days held in democracy. Or the meeting we had almost two years ago in Durango. It is necessary to mention the strands that make up today the thread of feminist struggles, contributions, feminist constructions that we have built. And I cannot end without mentioning what has happened in art history, understood from all spheres, literature and all artistic expression... There is a huge gap that has not been resolved, because a predominant canon has been established since the absence of women, and also since the absence of any cultural agent and artist who was not within that canon. If we take any contemporary anthology, we see that of 20 names there are only two women. When we see the history of the National Literature Awards, the absence of women is total. And there we could think. What's going on? What's going on? What about invisible women in that field? There is a clear gender-distinguishing look that commits the greatest of the grievances, that is to erase us, that is to erase the memory of many creators and impoverish us as a society and impoverish our cultural imagination. The moment you think that women of the 97 generation, those of the 98 generation, those of the 50 don't get into the exam, it doesn't matter. And here we are talking about selectivity. Nothing that does not go into an exam, today, with the educational system that we have, during primary or secondary education, is relevant. A study by Ana López Navajas says that out of every 100 proper names studied in compulsory education, 93 are of men and three are of women. If we approach the contemporary age, far from correcting that gap, it increases even further, inexplicably. We recently had the opportunity to hear from the Education Commission about people coming from Agora elkartea and Jakinmina elkartea of philosophy. They made a very interesting contribution: they will try to incorporate philosophers into the Philosophical Selectivity Tests, because it seems that in selectivity the dream team of philosophers is that, a dream team only of men. Something's changing. We saw it in the previous initiative, when we talked about CTIAM women. But we have to change it from the base, not just with names. And I think with today's initiative we're back on the surface. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Gonz. Gather the representative of the EH team, Mr. Arrese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u91	Thank you, Chief. Good noon, everyone. In the third place, according to the example of my colleague Lore, I will present a few significant women to-day. They're Basques. This is the source of the Ticiana, the doctor of medicine, the first member of the Biscay Medical Council. This is Raimundaroy, the sportsman, the hillman, the champion of women sportsmen. This was the first woman who completed the 100 mountain tournament. It's Lucegi Gabildo, veteria, the first woman in the Basque Country who ended up at the Veterinary School. This is Maravillas Lamberto Yolda in the Civil War. This is the Lame of the Source of Mauricia, the musician, the great panderist and singer of the Titi music, the popular Basque Rascal. The first author of the sudden verse of the women known to Plazida Odriozzo, the verser, Ottaño Odriola. Gladys del Reporteria and the famous comlogist activist, who was shot by a civilian guard. This, the founder of Irancy Cypitria, the teacher, the founder of the scholars, the promoter of the eucalyptus, and the fighter against the exclusion of women. It has been mentioned before, this Eulalia, the first photographer in the Basque Country. And among many other examples, I might have said this, the first woman who entered the Spanish Meteorology, a citizen of eascal. All women and euscal people. And this is just a sample. We will, according to our will, recognize them more or less. But the question is: why do we not know of them in the schools? Why don't they show up in our textbooks? Why don't we just put them in the curriculum? Well, I think today's education system, like the system that surrounds us, is, like the crowd that surrounds us, completely eccentric and completely heterogerarian. The examples produced by the patrician, patriarchal, and patrician, condemn new generations to endure oppression. They oblige them to feel and to tame in the binary rules of genera, either by abolishing or excluding all divergence. For this model of education which the states impose upon us is designed to preserve the patriarchal systems of structure, and to carry them on the bones with a heterrapathy. This occurs in the content received in curriculums, in the partial propositions made to educate and interpret the world, in the individualistic and competitive values that are intended to be conveyed to it, and so on. After all, we wish to establish curriculum arric and acritarian, which is the visible structure of every patriarchal structure, and which is the dependence between men and women, as a secret curriculum. The cultivation, social justice, the exercise of the economy of the genus, the sister, the consideration of the new masculinity models, are not the priorities of our education system, as is the case with the cultivation of the sexual and emotionally effective aspect of individuals. On the other hand, in general, the leading men of our textbooks are men of white, powerful, heterosexual, irreproached, and bribed, who have the power of buying. That's why we're based on this proposal that's been presented to us today. For we should design programs that will play the course of education, education, and pedagogues, and feminists, and work on the networks of schools that will promote their setting, where the system of the genus, the difference of the genus, the separation of the genus, we should make critical reflections on non-identity and imagination, or on guard, with the symmetrical of women, who will aim at the viscissitation of feminine contributions and of the ignorant identity. And all these must be an occasion in curriculums. It is true that this proposition seemed curious to us from the PP-Ciudadans' party. For, as I said just now, even if we share the same proposition in the original, it is strange that this group should have brought about the subject. For we cannot forget that this group is the same, or that it is its homologies, for instance in Murzia, who have entrusted the care of education to the ultra-fascist ultra-mima. Or those who are fostering the spatatal throughout the whole state. Or, as I have said more than once, around here, 100 miles away, in the Navarre, with the political population crossing against the Skolae program. But it seems to us that it does not contribute much, and that this original proposition has no accuracy. That's why we wanted to bring in a simple and accurate proposition in our correction. In fact, what we're still familiar with when we go to college, or as a selactive, we wanted to guarantee the presence of women in the course of philosophy in our correction. In fact, who's Simone de Beauvoir? Who's Hanna Arendt? Who's Hipathy? Who's Simone Weil? Who's Judith Butler? Who's Martha Nusbaum? Who's Maria Zambrano? Who's Marina Garcés? Who's Teresa de Jesús? Who's Big Jule's? Who are they, for instance, we can have other philosophers at the Basque Country? But if we were to ask the question: Who are Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, St. Augustine, Deschartes, Kant, Marx, Nietzsche, or Ortega y Gasset? We'd know who all these things are. Therefore our proposal was simple but exact, that in the schools there should be at least two of the ten philosophers who are taught in the second grade of the Union. As Elisabet has said, at the Board of Education in this legislature, we had members of the Agora philosophy meeting. And we know that with the university managers they're trying to break the way in that philosophy lesson I've just mentioned, in order to ensure the presence of women in sex. Therefore, it seemed interesting to us to bring this as a correction, and to encourage the proposition they are making. But it wasn't possible. After we've negotiated with the Jeltian Party, we think your proposal is quite generic and unexplored. And we've tried to ensure the presence of women in what we call Selectivity and we haven't succeeded. It is in your correction that you will regard the presence of women in the bosom of the planet. And we think it's small. In fact, this plan of Education, which is now active, answers to 50 public schools, and the other 50 schools that are consecrated, that plan of Education answers only to 100 schools. And we know, moreover, that it is not necessary, and in most cases, that it is but a few hours, according to the will of each teacher or of each clause. So we've come together in agreement with Podemos-IU, because we protect their points and protect them from our points, we'll confirm that. For we think we need radical changes in this matter. For what has no name does not exist. But in many cases, even if the name be not mentioned, and is not received in the curriculum, because it does not exist, because it is effaced from our history. And it is time, and most importantly, that in the sector there is nobility to make such changes, and to penetrate real pedagogia into the feminists. We take the side of the feminists of genealogia, because it seems to us that this thought of the feminists must be wetted all the curriculum in the year 0-18. That's why we keep our correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u92	Thank you, Mr. Arrese. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u93	Yeah. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. It is evidence that educational material continues to give an androcentric view of a content in which women have been almost absent from the story. And this has been transmitted in the textbooks, although in recent years steps have been taken to improve this situation. The Ministry of Education has stated on some occasion that it has no competence in the preparation of textbooks. However, they recommend the work of publishers in line with our educational legislation to promote equal treatment and opportunities between men and women. The 2017 State Pact against Gender Violence already indicated the need to include a greater reference to women in history books. The largest study on the presence of women in educational materials was carried out, as has already been said, by Ana López Navajas of the University of Valencia. It analysed 115 manuals of three editorials and counted, on average, 7.5% of women's appearances in all ESO subjects. For this reason, men and women of the future receive incomplete historical knowledge, based on a cultural canon that corresponds to the values and spaces of men and not to the entire population. It is not a question of seeking parity in the representation of men and women in textbooks. It's not that. But the existing under-representation must be eliminated, despite the improvement achieved in recent years. The publishers ensure that they are increasingly aware and have taken this issue into account since 1996 in the preparation of books, in curricular materials and guidelines for centres. We cannot forget that they are companies, which cannot be obliged, although of course they must comply with the curriculum and all legal obligations. There are many publishers who have been willing to improve since many school courses; they are aware of this gap and are working to give women an equitable role in the eyes of men. This involves not only incorporating female referents, but also ensuring an inclusive use of language, including co-responsibility and avoiding stereotypes showing examples of people's equal participation as referents. But the fundamental problem in moving forward more quickly is that publishers have freedom of choice and of teaching. And editorials in the sector sometimes have different ideological positions, which can go one way or another. However, it is educational institutions that have the freedom to choose books or other, as well as administrations, to ensure that women enter these educational curricula and are able to provide the centres with guidance on the choice of teaching materials. Text books must avoid such sexist language, run away from such stereotypes and other forms of discrimination, since only through a quality, inclusive and inclusive educational system is equal opportunities guaranteed, making it possible for each student to develop his or her full potential. Achieving the balance between male and female referents shown in textbooks is one of the main demands of co-education. And an important step in achieving this, in the opinion of the Basque Socialist parliamentary group, is to promote equality from the textbooks used in the classrooms on any subject and at any level. This effort is being translated into a more egalitarian approach in the textbooks and in the illustrations included in them, highlighting diversity and including inspiring models and behaviors for students, being able and should also do so with female models. We must also highlight in this debate the STEAM Euskadi strategy to which we referred when we discussed it at point 3 of today's plenary session. That's why I'm not going to go any deeper into talking about this strategy. In the end, we have not been able to reach a compromise amendment. It's been tried. We have not been able to reach agreement on the proposing group, which had an impact on the subject of curriculum, because we understood that it was most appropriate to follow the line established by the current legislation, which makes it easier for the centres to incorporate different issues. We have also tried the agreement with the EH Bildu group. In addition, both groups emphasized the need to improve teacher training in the context of the Co-education Plan. In the end we have not been able to reach an agreement, so we are going to defend our amendment to the whole, the amendment signed by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Basque Socialist Group, in which the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to contribute to the integration of women's knowledge and their social and historical contribution, with particular attention to these Basque references, as one of the basic pillars of our Co-education Plan and, through the STEAM Euskadi strategy, to inspire vocations and professional aspirations in the STEM field, with particular attention to pupils. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u94	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arriganaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u95	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good noon to all. When I saw that proposition as original, I was really glad to see it. It seemed to me that it was a very nice initiative, and that was the way I had given it to the party. It was the first thing I thought about at that moment: the refreciative women, who can these refractory women be? And I began to print, as many of you have spoken before me today. How many women's full names have already come out of this extra! I'd like to mention some of these, too, and I'll quote some of you before. But we have the Hipathia of Alexandria, Leonor of Acitania, Marie Curie, 13 roses, Frida Kahlo, Hedy Lamarr, Rosa Parks, Valentina Terxkov, Sirimavo Bandraike. Known, right? But they should still have more for all of us who form this society. And not only those from here, but: Joana de Albret, Haydée Aguirre, Dolores Ira, Lourdes Iridendo, Mary de Maeztu, Helena, Begoña Zuzua, Joane Somarrib, Inma, Albebra, Maribel, Arridua, etc. Basque, brave, clever, intelligent, intelligent women. Predictor women, refefers. And we need them in our lives because their achievements inspire us more knowingly, happier, stronger, and bolder. But yet, as it often happens in this legislature, though it unites itself to the end, the discords arise in the form, or in the way. And I think that would be the reason why we didn't make an agreement this evening, because we all agree with this purpose, or with the purpose of the original initiative. For no one will doubt that the books of the text serve to transmit knowledge, patterns, values, and ways of conduct, and that although education laws favor equality, many of the ditactics continue to transmit sexist stereotypes, M. d'EncyGil herself said that there is an historical difference in the fact that there is no woman in the letters. From the starting point of view, we will defend our corrections today, and we have not obtained any intermediate means with the other teams. In our correction we asked the Board of Education to help us integrate into the society of women's knowledge and women's history, as one of the fundamental pillars of the Plan Society. I would like to remark, because there is one already, Mr. Arrese, it is not to be regarded at the present day. Our II. All these columns are displayed on page 34th of the Plan Education. And they're all indispensable, not just the most urgent. I'll give Mrs. González the reason there. In order not to get caught, as you said, we not only need to talk about references, but about many other things. And all of this is reflected in the Second Plan of Co-education. Second, we asked the Board of Education to inspire vocations and professional intentions in the SRUMM's field with special attention to women's students. As to the first point, it directs us directly to what the law of equality of 2005 is now established, and the other, as it is expressly received in the curriculum, to enable us to insert into the genus view. More specifically, article 29 of the Equality Act provides that the Education Administration shall encourage the implementation of co-educational projects and shall integrate the following co-educational objectives into the curriculum design and development of all areas of knowledge and disciplines of the different educational stages. On the one hand, the elimination of prejudices, stereotypes and gender roles, built according to the sociocultural patterns of conduct assigned to women and men, in order to guarantee, for both students and students, possibilities for personal and integral development. It also includes the integration of women's knowledge and their social and historical contribution to the development of humanity, reviewing and, where appropriate, correcting the contents that are imparted. This is precisely the original initiative. And this is what is received at the second point of our correction, which, we think, is closely connected. Already in 2018, the Department of Education of the Basque Government presented the STEAM Euskadi Strategy, designed with the support of Innobasque, which seeks to promote scientific and technical education and training at all stages of education. In addition, it seeks to inspire STEM professional vocations and aspirations, with special attention to students and to promote a scientific culture among society. About it has already been spoken a long time at the third point of the day, but I would like to make a remark about it. STEPM is education that achieves: On the one hand, it combines science, technology, engineering, and humanity, it develops either indirect or disciplineal faculties, and it enables teachers to resist the roots of our society with responsibilities. Why all this? The equality between men and women is a global priority at the moment, and the ability to help young women, and to make them hear their education and their ideas, are the cause of their development and peace. Science and the difference of genera are essential to patient development. Nevertheless, women are still hindered in the science of science. Women are less than 30% of the world's scientific investigators. To challenge some of the greatest challenges of the calendar to patient development, from improving health to climate change, will depend on the exercise of all the talents. That means putting more women in these areas. The variety of investigation increases the number of talented investigators by giving a new talent and creativity. It is the object of the nation in science to obtain a complete and effective access to women and girls. And besides, the difference of genera and the possibility of women and girls is indispensable. And what we're talking about is, like, doing a lot of fun with that initiative. So I'd like to return to the beginning of my involvement. It's a matter of form, Mr. Gil. Mr. Gil's wager on his initiative was to insert directly into the résumé. We've talked about it. But we think it best to put force in the form of teachers. It's possible. And we also believe that the most effective is to act thus at the moment. Besides, it's not our inventory. It comes from the tradition of the law of Education which is now established, that is, according to Article 6.5, the Institutions of Education are set up as a curriculum in this Law. And the basic parts given in the previous paragraphs will be part of the curriculum. The courses and courses of different cycles and bars will develop and form in the use of their autonomy the V of that law. 2nd of title. As it is recorded in the chapter, it speaks of the autonomy of the schools in title V. Chapters. And that's where we're going. And I'm going to finish, Mr. congressman. Mr Gil, the negotiation, in our view, has been totally honest, really. I don't know what you're talking about. We have tried, with you and the rest of the groups, with whom have we not tried, from the very beginning? It seems to me that this group and this Member of Parliament have been completely sincere in sharing the intention of the group that supports the Government. Because we agree on what, all of them. The problem is how. To explain this, I refer again to the Equality Act of 2005 and also to our II Co-education Plan. Respecto al cómo. In accordance with the model which the educational law allows, the object of becoming a equal member of society, observing the autonomy of schools, the means necessary to unite them are established and established, and they will be entrusted to the schools. Besides, Mr. Arrese said there's a desire to establish a feminist perspective in the community. So there will be will to do all that. That's what the Education Department is doing. That's what it's all about. And that's why we think it's the right thing to do today, and that's why we're going to protect it. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. A group that hasn't issued any corrections must not speak. We'll take the answers turn. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Well, Mrs González, you have made a very interesting speech, without a doubt, in which what you have done is to raise the shot above my proposal. In other words, our proposal, as I have said before, is rather humble: it is only intended, in reality, to incorporate female references in the textbooks, not to open a theoretical debate on heteropatriarchy. I don't think it's interesting, but I think it's coming another time maybe. I want to say that, if we go to those levels, we will of course find that there are many things missing and that this is absolutely insufficient, of course. For example, since we could also have thought and we could talk, and it is an issue that is pending, that we can also incorporate LGTBI references, which are completely missing in the textbooks. It's not just a matter of justice. It is also a question of the future, because there are many boys and girls who do not find any reference in the books. But this was not the question, the question was more concrete: it was the incorporation of women. You have to go slowly, and go somewhere, don't you? Sure. You think you confuse women with feminism; they're different things. I mean, I share with you that feminism is studied. And it seems to me wrong not to study feminism in schools, of course it is; an important movement in every sense. And I think it should be included. Moreover, I am absolutely in favour of this concept being deepened and of everyone knowing it in depth and knowing what it means, and everyone being able to choose, etc. I think it's fantastic. But I repeat, this is something else. We were talking here about another question, something simpler, which was simply a question of justice, which was to include women's references. Well, Mr. Arrese, thank you for putting pictures on the faces of many of the women I mentioned; there are many more. We could have brought in so many more; we have also agreed in many names. Indeed, we could have made here an almost infinite listing. You say it's weird for you to bring us this proposal, but that's because you don't know us. Or, rather, because he knows us from a very prejudicial perspective. Look at a detail, simply: the only party at the national level that has a woman president is mine, for example. Finally, the patrimony of defending certain causes such as this is neither yours nor anyone's. In the women's cause, I understand that the best favor we can do is not patrimony it on the part of anyone. If you tell me that our proposal is generic, then what do I have to say about yours? Although I was surprised that a new proposal, a new transaction, had arrived when it was one minute before this intervention began. By the way, a transaction very different from the previous one, in which, of course, I have already been drawn to the attention that in his previous speeches no one spoke of the famous presentation. And now, in fact, it's gone. No, I'm not talking about you, I'm talking about them. And indeed, in the new transaction the famous paper has disappeared, and they have made a transaction that seems interesting to me. I've read it, the truth is a little fast, because it hasn't given me time, but it seemed to me that we could agree on practically everything. I mean, I don't see any problems out there. We agree that we must insist on the subject of teacher training, of course. Nor does that approach seem to us to be bad either. But what happens is that we do not believe that the cause of the problem of missing women in textbooks is because teachers lack training. See, they're different things. I mean, having to do it doesn't mean that that's the cause of the problem. Therefore, it would be insufficient if we stayed only in this. That is why it still seems to us that the inclusion in the curriculum, I repeat, with the deadlines, with the timetables that you consider appropriate, must be done. Moreover, we are convinced that in this it will pass as with so many things, as it has passed with the Renovation Plan: you will end up doing it, but it will pass a little bit of time and it will remain as if it is your initiative. Doesn't matter, huh? What matters is that it is done. What matters is that it is done, and what matters is that it can be provided. Finally, I believe that today we are all missing an opportunity, the opportunity to present ourselves to the public at hand for an agreement on an issue on which we agree in substance, if we do not get into trouble. In other words, we all agree that women's references are included in the textbooks. And the truth is, everything else is eager to look for artificial differences between us. It's a shame we missed this opportunity. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u98	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Together, the representative of the Podemos-IU must not speak. Not even EH Collect. Sociists, are you going to take the word? Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u99	Yes, briefly, from the seat. Well, Mr Gil, I, of course, thank you for bringing this initiative and for having had the opportunity to discuss it, even though we have not been able to reach the end of an agreement that could have been translated into a compromise amendment. Because we all agree that women have done many things, that they are referent in many things, but all the knowledge and everything they have accomplished has not just been translated into the textbooks. And I agree with one thing that Mr Gil, Mrs González, has also said. This initiative sought to gain a greater presence in women's textbooks, not to include or introduce the knowledge of feminism into the textbooks. That we can also agree that it should be taught, but it was not the substance of this initiative. The background of this initiative was that all work and knowledge should be valued and that many women who are reference books should be referenced and included in the textbooks so that current and future generations would be aware of this. We have made an effort, as Mrs Arrizabalaga said, we have made an effort to reach an understanding and try to achieve a compromise amendment. It has not been possible and in the last second we have met with the compromise amendment that has reached our seats and we have been aware of it at that time, but well, we are going to support the amendment to the whole that we have signed and presented by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Basque Socialist Group, as I indicated in my first speech. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u100	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eunerative patriots, Madame Arriganaga, from which the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u101	Yes, ma'am. With your permission, I'll take it from the seat. At my first participation I had no opportunity to explain to other rival groups the cause of our refusal. I'd tell the Basque Country to collect that I think we've been very close. I believe that the desires of different groups were penetrated in the half-organized proposition. But we proposed something more general, especially as we intended not to leave some camp outside, and not only to instruct us in the subject of philosophy. We also agree, but we thought it best to penetrate other spheres, and therefore we proposed that the planning should be more general. We believe it to be the jurisdiction of the department, and this is to be agreed on by some other entities, and not something to be established by the legislative. Yet we are grateful for our presumption, sincerely. We can esan behar diot hasieratik argi geneukala zuen zuzenketarekin bat egiten ez genuela. The legal framework we believe is already established in advance by the Equality Act and the Co-education Plan and, subsequently, also by the new recently adopted Education Act, and we understand that we are acting in accordance with it and in an appropriate manner. And to Mr Gil I want to say that I believe that you have given the key, which is, in fact, teacher training; it is very important, it is fundamental, much more than incorporating matter into the curriculum. This is the key to putting the purple glasses on the faculty, so that they can see this need to incorporate not only reference women, but also the gender perspective in general, in a cross-sectional way, in all their teaching work. The key is training. And we have also been commenting on this in all the previous work we are having, appearances and so on, for example, in the area of amending the Equality Act. All the experts are telling us the same thing, that training is the key, and in this case the department also understood it, and that is why we defended it today. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Now that we have finished our discussion, we shall put the original text of the proposition of Euscala, Populara-Ciudadans. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly are 43; the votes given, 74; the supporters 5; the contrary, 42; the abstations, 27; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u103	Original text therefore not allowed. Next, we vote for the middle-term correction that the Podemos-IU teams have signed together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 32; the contrary, 42; the abstations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u104	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. Finally, we'll vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and the Euccanists. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 43; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 46; the contrary, 1. Abstations, 27; white, 0.1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-06.u105	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was three o'clock in the afternoon and twelve.
