ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u0	Good morning, everyone. I'll start the whole meeting. I inform you that the second point on the subject list has been left for another. Before we proceed, 31 lords and ladies have adopted the vote. First point in theme list: "To discuss first the Euological Asbertists and the Sociialists of Eucharists in the parliamentary groups of Esquilamentians, the measures for managing the Pandemonies of COVID-19. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the documentation where you've been disoriented. And thus, without reading, we shall proceed to dispute. You know there's a side shift and a counter shift. Side shift? Okay. So, Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u1	Thank you, Madam President. During the last week there has been much talk about the situation and the scenario in which we will meet after 9 May. But from here, in addition to talking about what is not up to us, we can do things to ensure greater legal certainty in what is left of an alarm pandemic or without it. And that is why we Socialists have proposed, together with the Basque Nationalist Party, this proposal for a law on the management of the COVID-19 pandemic. In this way, the law will allow the Basque institutions to have legal mechanisms to act, being applicable both if there is a state of alarm and if it falls but if a health emergency situation is maintained. The Basque Government has been acting, on the basis of its statutory powers and those of the Basque health institutions, on civil protection, social assistance and many other matters involved in the fight against the pandemic, covered by the Public Health Act, the General Health Act and the Emergency Management Act. Socialists believe that we should make the most of self-government. That is what we are doing with this bill and what we can continue to do with the other measures and, if necessary, changes that will allow us to address our legal system to develop our skills and put them in this case also at the service of the fight against the pandemic. With regard to this proposal for a law, our intention has been to confine the scope of the rule to our area of competence. And in that spirit we have tried to escape from absolutely controversial issues that go beyond that sphere of competence, as we have seen in the analysis of the law proposed by the Government of the Xunta de Galicia that opens the door to decree the compulsory vaccination, which we do not do. As you know, it is the General Health Act of the year 86 that is the first ordinary rule that empowers the Basque Parliament to take letters on such matters, because it allows this autonomous legislator to deal with situations with a serious or imminent risk to people's health in the exercise of legislative development and its implementation. Our intention has not been to make a general law that is applicable to any epidemic situation that may come in the future by a simple principle of reality. The particularities of each pandemic, the form of transmission, virulence, the degree of mortality make it very innocent to think that the solutions that serve to fight this virus could also serve to respond to other kinds of health crises. That is why this is a concrete law for a concrete situation. The six titles in which the law is structured incorporate general provisions, the regulation of the health emergency situation, the management of public protection organizations and systems, the comprehensive health information system for health emergency management, general and specific measures for each level of alert and a sanctioning regime that will also contribute to strengthening the legal certainty and effectiveness of this rule. It is also a duty for the Basque Government to inform Parliament every 15 days of the measures taken, as well as of the developments that have taken place. And since it could not otherwise be, it is a guarantee law, which expressly includes the submission to administrative litigation jurisdiction with regard to the authorization or judicial ratification of measures taken in accordance with this law or other health laws... dintaren ambera) [[Start of tape 2]] ...the contentious-administrative jurisdiction with regard to the authorization or judicial ratification of the measures taken, as provided for in this Act or in other laws in the field of health, civil protection and emergencies or state of alarm, where they have a potential meaning for fundamental rights. The request for urgent procedure, which has not had any votes against in the Bureau of this Parliament, which is to be welcomed, responds to the urgency of responding to the containment of this pandemic, with the aim that it can be adopted before the end of the current session. Since the announcement of the possibility of such a rule, meetings have been held with the groups of the House, with the aim of creating an environment conducive to understanding, throughout the parliamentary process, and achieving broad support. The two groups that are signatories to this initiative are open to improvement in order, among all, to provide safe, effective and agile responses at times that are extremely delicate, something that will be possible if we all act with responsibility and constructive attitude. For our part, it will be like this. With the consideration of this proposal for a law, for which I am asking you to vote in favour, we will put in place a law that responds to this exceptional moment, that falls within our competence, and that strengthens the mechanisms to guarantee health and fight against the virus. And in that struggle we must all be. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u2	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u3	The lady's head. President. Chiefs of Investigation. Partners. Good morning, everyone. Of all the laws which have been assigned to me to defend me, and to defend my life in parlamentary, I am sure this is the only one I should not be obliged to apply. Nor because it is useful, nor because it is not a good legal instrument, but the best thing that can happen to us in a short time, is to disappear the pandem of COVID-19, and this law is useless. The problem has been solved by other means. Like, the unanimous social responsibilities, the universal insertion, or, I don't know, because a miracle happens. But, regardless of my dreams and wishes, I also know, and my group knows, that this law is now presented to us as essential and urgent, even if it is not the ideal and the one we would like. It is likely – at least if we stick to the statements of the President of the Spanish Government – that the state of alarm in the State will be over on 9 May, and, regardless of whether it seems to us to be a hasty and unconsensuous decision, the new situation will require new legal frameworks that allow us to continue fighting the pandemic. The COVID-19 appeared by surprise in our lives and in our society, and it does not seem that it is going to go in the same way, but that its disappearance, seems, will be slow, slow and in successive waves more and more tenuous, but still there, sickening the citizens, causing occupations in hospital beds and ICUs, which could either be free or dedicated to other pathologies. Despite the disconcertingness at the beginning, the institutions reacted with the means at their disposal at that time, but reacted, which did not prevent a significant number of citizens from becoming ill and even a percentage of them from dying. While there was a prepared health front that was intensely concerned with saving lives, there was an urgent need for another front to try to avoid the contagions, which, from the very beginning, we knew were occurring through social contact. Hence, the lehendakari, relying on general health legislation, own health legislation and emergency law, proclaimed the health emergency in Euskadi by closing educational services and restricting all kinds of collective events and meetings. Shortly afterwards, the state of alarm decreed by the state government came to establish a state of radical confinement, which lasted for about two months and which came to replace all other regulations, although trying to establish a model of co-governance – which in the end did not come to be almost such – resulting, in general, in political debates in the Congress of Deputies not very adequate to the serious situation that we had been going through. From there, and after a more or less peaceful summer, the new repuntes of the pandemic re-emerged and we find ourselves with a legislative system that proved to be scarce for what was intended from the public authorities and the state of alarm was re-declared in October. I remember that it was the lehendakari who first sued him while he had found that the measures he had to take to stop the spread of contagion required higher legal support than we had at Euskadi. To fight against COVID-19, to try not to harm all viruses is not only to be a strong health system. We have this system, it is not only under the influence of masking, or of washing hands, but it depends on being essentially able to reduce social relations. The scientific truth is that it is proved that there are eight in those relationships. In a utopian society where we were all cherubim it would not be necessary to standardize to hinder these social relations, it would be worth making the recommendation public. But we are social animals and sometimes reasonably contrary to the rules, which leads the public authorities to have to regulate permanently to regulate the rationality of individual and social behaviour and to have to ensure that these rules are complied with. And in the face of this pandemic, and with the sole aim of not extending it, we must make decisions in the form of legal rules that prevent the spread of the disease as much as possible. Norms supported in technical reports that know the evolution of the pandemic and that, in general, means limiting the freedom of citizens, and this requires solid arguments in order to be able to do so without opening a panoply of resources and counter-resources that ends up delegating the powers of legislative and executive bodies to the judiciary. Because justice is to establish what is just or unjust, depending on the laws that pass the legislative powers and that apply the executives, but it doesn't seem optimal... [[End of tape 2]] [[Start of tape 3]] ... justice is to establish what is fair or unfair according to the laws passed by the legislative authorities and enforced by the executives. But it does not seem as optimal as they become bodies that permanently rule on decisions of the executive branch, because they will not have sufficient legal basis. On the basis of which judges do not seem to have much at their disposal either, as it has come along this pandemic that, in the face of similar decisions by various executive branches, the judiciary has taken different and conflicting decisions. In short, and with all due respect for their work and mission, we must have legal rules that allow decisions to be made without further legal debate. Because the rules on which decisions are based on what measures are taken to combat this pandemic, must be taken by the Legislative and Executive Powers, of course, provided that they are balanced for the purpose pursued, limit only temporarily the freedoms and that the legal framework that supports it is solid. And this bill that we are putting forward by the Socialist Group and the Nationalist Group is intended to be that framework that allows the Government to make decisions in the different possible situations in which the pandemic is found. It seeks to defend above all the safeguard of the health of all with a method of balanced limitation of short-term, temporary and adapted to that higher good of protecting the health of all and, above all, of those most unprotected by various circumstances, such as age or lack of resources. This bill I'm not going to disprove because everyone knows it. At least they have it in their hands long enough to have deepened in it, and it is a project that aims to reinforce the norms now active in Euskadi with another specific one for this pandemic, with the maximum legal rank and expressly made for the COVID-19, with the experience that the institutions have for a year dealing with this pandemic. That is why the different stages that can pass the level of infection of the covid, taken the number of infected per 100,000 inhabitants, as well as the different measures that can be taken to reduce the infectability of the virus, are included with concreteness, because this bill is to create something specific for a specific alarming situation, but at the same time derived from an extended experience in the fight against this specific pandemic. This project is to create something legally solid in what we, with our own resources and powers, can decide on our own legal ground, the best way to preserve the health of all, even if it has to be done by limiting temporarily and temporarily certain freedoms, for which, indeed, in certain cases, the law itself establishes the safeguard of consultation with judges. In any case, the procedure we are debating today is just to admit to a bill. The debate on its contents and how far we want it to reach will begin tomorrow, and there we would like to count on the will of all (?)Vascos, and that even those who intend to read to see if they support an amendment to a State Health Act, also tend to analyze a Basque law made with our competitive and legal resources, which, however scarce they may seem, are the ones we have to address the future of the fight against a pandemic that slows us down and paralyzes us for moments. I know that some will like some rules and some limitations, others different, even others, among which I include myself, have enough sovereignty to legislate without depending on other rules. But we are on what we are on, and I suggest that we can realistically agree on a catalogue of rules and limitations and then allow each of them to be applied at a specific time, and above all, let us give those possible limitations a legal umbrella that allows them to be applied without fear of being paralysed or neutralized when the health emergency is in force. This bill is about consensus, a pact, an attempt to put an end to debates that lead us to nothing and that confuse a citizen whom I have always thought a degree of agreement is expected of us when it comes to fighting against a virus that seeks to put an end to the health of all of us, without distinction of colours. If the pandemic equals us, let's equal ourselves against the pandemic. Pandemiak berdintzen bagaitu, bordund gaitezen pandemican aurka. Some of us will like some measures, others, one approach to the pandemic, one approach to the pandemic, one approach to the other, but what I am sure is that we all want to end this pandemic as soon as possible, that we all want us, and for us and for society as a whole, to recover a lost normality, a broken freedom for moments and a security in which our health will not be attacked by maintaining social relations. Now, as it is well known, that this plan of law is connected with us, we offer this project, to discuss it as soon as possible, and to agree with the whole of us. In this text, we shall all be content with the consequence, knowing that we have agreed with the society of the rest on such a sensitive subject, and that we shall offer tools to fight against it all. And even if it is not the law that solves everything and cannot have all the legal certainty that we might want, I conclude as I have started: let us work quickly to develop this law as another instrument against the pandemic, so that I hope this bill will never have to be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u4	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. On the other hand, who wants to participate? - Yeah? Voxen... Miss, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u5	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. A Government with an absolute majority and which imposes its roller unimpededly resorts to arguments to create a legal framework that is in line with its particular interests. Despite having had more than enough time, despite knowing for many months its limitations to impose... [[End of tape 3]] [[Start of tape 4]] ... This is in line with their particular interests. Although he had had more than enough time, despite knowing for many months his limitations to impose certain restrictions, he resorted to the formula of the bill to shorten deadlines and, even worse, to avoid reports that might be contrary to his claims. This reminds me a little of the Sánchez-Iglesias government movement to break the law when it comes to renewing the summit of the General Council of the Judiciary. That misconception which, fortunately, Europe has stopped. There was plenty of time to process a bill. But, instead of doing so, when it comes to something as important as laying the groundwork for limiting people's fundamental rights, the proposal for a law is chosen. And they'll wonder why they do it. Well, very simple, to sneak us through the back door restrictions and impositions which, moreover, are proving to be absolutely useless. According to this government's explanations, the increase in contagion is due to the fact that there are holidays and holidays, that bars and restaurants are open, that Athletic plays finals, and that people don't tell them where it gets infected and what it does. But let us go to the origin of the proposition that promises to be law. To begin with, it is a consequence of a lie, one more than one PSOE, led by someone who does not know the meaning of the word "truth". That just under a year ago announced the processing of a national law that would provide such legal certainty to the autonomous communities and the Spanish Government itself, in order to be able to manage the pandemic, to keep the state of emergency hidden that they impose, with the excuse of the state of alarm, propaganda announcement to, in a year, do absolutely nothing. And what is so urgent about this undisguised attempt to avoid reports, such as that of the Legal Advisory Commission or that of the House's own lawyers on the applicability of the law? The explanation is known, that judges of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, not one, but three, affected at the beginning of the year the attitude of the Urkullu cabinet, by decreeing the closure of bars and restaurants, without any report that endorsed such a decision, that certifies the unequivocal relationship of this activity with the acceleration of the contagions. It is not that the Basque Government lacks legal support. It is that it intends to do, without accountability to anyone, without justifying anything, avoiding any kind of control. By the way, we are still waiting for the reports on which the Basque Government based the closure of the hotel. I stop only one minute in Article 14 of this proposal for a law, in point 3, which seeks to make vaccination not a voluntary option, but an obligation. And if someone decides not to be vaccinated, the Government intends to prevent him from performing tasks or imposing personal restrictions. Almost nothing. How far does your arrogance go? This law, gentlemen of the Government, violates the reservation to Organic Law 3/1986, in accordance with article 81 of the Constitution. Article 116 of the Constitution and the Organic Law 4/1981 of 1 June of the states of alarm, exception and site will be violated. They violate the State powers provided for in articles 149.1, the first 16th and 18th of the Constitution, and in particular violate the powers of article 14.3 when it provides for the requirement of vaccination against the agreement on the vaccination strategy approved by the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System on 28 January 2021. This, here and everywhere, is called authoritarianism, that of a government and its parties that have shown a fatal inability to manage the health crisis. And to a single fact I refer: 500 positives per 100,000 inhabitants, compared, for example, to the less than 50 of the Valencian Community. Undoubtedly, an endorsement for Urkullu's cabinet as the unquestionable manager of this pandemic. You know that, but just in case, I remember. Vox defends, here and in the Congress of Deputies, a national plan to manage a crisis that goes beyond national borders, far beyond the fictitious borders of the autonomous communities, those that now remain closed, even though they are unreal and, of course, unnecessary. Vox calls for the return of health skills to the national government for the national management of the pandemic. That which, for personal interest, has renounced President Sánchez and of which he does not want or hear Mr Urkullu speak. It will be necessary to see what this is all about, but the appeal to the Constitutional Court seems to be necessary, in order to prevent this Government from arrogating powers that do not belong to it, in order to prevent us from being imposed on what they cannot impose on us, in order to prevent them from doing their thing without supervision, without control and without accountability. In short, to defend the freedom and rights of Basque society. That's why our vote will be a no-brainer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u6	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government. All members of this Parliament, we have been presented in this Parliament with a proposal for a law that comes from the two groups of the Government. A proposal for a law on, and so says its title, measures for the management of the pandemic. And we have been introduced, as I say, by the groups that defend the Government, rather than having come as a bill. And I believe that here, by paraphrasing and quoting a fellow Member of Parliament, I believe that we need to look at this issue from the context, not just a social context, but also a legal and parliamentary context. Look, I don't think any of the members of the government parliamentarians, people who are right now in this room, can be against any kind of positive action or can be in favour of the pandemic continuing to spread. I think that's something that unites us. I believe that to all the members of this Parliament, to all the people we work in the institutions and to everyone, in general, the fight against the pandemic today is not only a vital necessity, but it is something that unites us. And it's a shame, because I think he wants the government, the Basque government and the government of the nation above all, he has lost a huge opportunity, above all, to put forward measures that were... [[End of tape 4]] [[Start of tape 5]] ... It is a pity, because I believe that here the Basque Government, the Basque Government and the Government of the nation, above all, have lost a great opportunity, above all, to put forward measures that are acceptable and reasonable on the part of all. First, the context, what is the context? Look, you all know, ladies and gentlemen, in the parliamentary sphere there are three ways to put forward a proposal, a proposal for a law. Leaving aside the legislative initiative, there are two other avenues. One is the bill, which consists of the Government, as a development of its policy, of the policies it has proposed, and above all the Government, which is the best informed and the most empowered, putting forward a bill to Parliament. A draft law which must be followed, which must be accompanied, by a series of reports, a series of legal guarantees and a series of documentation, which is then to be taken into consideration by Parliament when it comes to, firstly, passing the first procedure and, secondly, continuing with the work. These are a number of legal guarantees of the parliamentary system that we have. The third way to introduce legislative initiatives, as you all know, is through parliamentary groups and they are called proposals for legislation. As all of you also know, ladies and gentlemen, the propositions of law in a system, let us say, normal or habitual, since they are those used by opposition groups. Moreover, they are legislative proposals because they involve a number of changes, initiatives, etc., but, of course, because they are proposed by the opposition to reach a certain agreement in the House if possible, but above all, it is the way that the opposition also has to present these initiatives at certain times. And here the way that the government has used is either seen or noticed. The Basque Government met with the parliamentary groups present here, we all know it, the Government met, Mrs Garamendi and her team met, called us all the parliamentary groups, probed us a little, indicating the possibility that perhaps there was no law, etc. Good. This does not reveal anything, because this has been told by the interested parties themselves before the media themselves. All right. And each group would then establish its opinion. We have reservations, above all of a legal nature, when it comes to undertaking a task of this kind. And well, what has finally happened is that, taking advantage of the possibility that parliamentary groups have, because that procedure has been missed. I think this is important to stress here today. I think this is very important. And above all, to demand this institution, this Parliament, as the body not only of control of the Government, but also the body in which the legislative actions and discussions are carried out with all guarantees. Why has the government done this? Well, it's obvious, to save time. That's what they'll tell you, of course, to save time. Of course, legal reports take time. Of course, they take time, but they're legal guarantees. It is that if in the future there is an appeal of unconstitutionality, which perhaps does not come on the part of the President of the Government, perhaps yes, perhaps it does not come on the part of 50 Members, 50 Senators, perhaps yes, is that to the best of those who come is, in a control called incidentally, in the course of judicial proceedings. It is best that a company which, perhaps a private individual, has recourse to an affected person in the course of a judicial procedure considers that the law applicable to the case and whose validity depends on the judgment as it is unconstitutional and raises what is called an incident of unconstitutionality before the Constitutional Court. With this, I believe that these legal reports, far from being something that hinders, seems to be, the system or the legislative process, as implicitly it seems to the government to recognize, for that is not the case, and I believe that they are very necessary. I think they're tremendously necessary. Secondly, I believe that another issue needs to be borne in mind, and that is that all that has been managed, let's say, the institutional management of the pandemic, since it has left a great deal to be desired in Spain. And I do not see this in the face of Mr Lehendakari here, nor of his Government; this is not the fault of this president of this autonomous community, Mr Lehendakari. It is here that there is a very important responsibility on the part of the central government, on the part of the government of the nation, a government supported in coalition by two groups represented here and then also, from the outside, parliamentaryly, also by the Basque Nationalist Party itself and other groups. And man, first of all, a state of alarm was established here for six months, raping, raping, which is the state of alarm legislation, six months, to avoid having to go every 15 days to account. And then, throughout this period of time, the central government has been unable to present a bill, also at the central level, at the Congress of Deputies, that would regulate these kinds of issues, that would update the old legislation of the year 86 for the control of pandemics, to ensure this health security. He's been incapacitated. And by the way, the parliamentary spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party has also, and rightly so, targeted the Government. I agree with Mr. Esteban. He shaved it. It's just that you've had time to do it, listen, and you haven't. What happened? Well, in the end, we're in a hurry. The last hour's in a hurry. The Government, I do not know whether, because of the current electoral situation in Spain, whatever it may be, it has said that it does not intend to prolong the state of alarm and, of course, we are now in a hurry. A pandemic cannot be managed, a pandemic cannot be managed at all, with these limbs, with a central government that clearly leaves office. In any other parliamentary and, above all, presidential system, he would probably be subjected to an internal political process of dismissal from office by a President of the Government who does this type of discharge. That's for starters. And then, secondly, let us take an example of what other European states have done.In Germany, Angela Merkel's Chancellor has met with all the Länder, is the equivalent of our autonomous communities, and they have come to an agreement that it is the central government that organizes a series of measures, a series of common measures; then, from there, it is the Länder that will implement those measures. But we must agree, we must reach an agreement that is reasonable, sensible and constitutional on what these common measures are to be adopted. That is what has been done in Germany for example. And by the way, the great challenge today would also be to adopt a number of measures at European level. What's going on in Spain? For, of course, with the excuse, and it is a good political excuse, I recognize it to the two groups of the Government, I find it a little difficult to see how the PSOE defends it, but in the end, no, no, no, in the face of the abandonment of functions of the central Government, and that is why the members of the PNV of this Government are right, in the face of the abandonment of functions, we are going to provide this solution. That is a bit the political argument that Mr Telleria is presenting to us here today, above all, before, in his speech. Given the abandonment of functions, it is not the one we would like and such, but well, we make this proposal. Look, there's a huge difference between managing and governing. There's a big difference. And it's a difference that I like to remember in this House every time. Here it is always presumed that the Basque Government... [[End of tape 5]] [[Start of tape 6]] ...the difference between managing and governing, there's a big difference. And it's a difference that I like to remember in this House every time. Here it is always presumed that the Basque PNV Government that if it manages very well and so, this is not a management situation, this is a government situation. And what is required here is a high-level view, a high-level view on the part of the autonomous governments and a high-level view on the part of the central government. And this is something that is going to cost us all, this kind of business, no longer asymmetrical operations, but here and this, because 17 different islands within Spain, almost 17 kingdoms of Taifas, practically 17 different regimes, when the problem is similar and especially when we have to maintain or guarantee, as far as possible, the most normal life possible for citizens, and the most normal situation possible so that economic and social actors can also develop their activity and not stop society, does not stop the country. As I said, we could be here all the members of this Parliament and all the groups can agree on the substance of the matter, which must, of course, take action. Of course we must take measures and of course we must take autonomous measures, perhaps with the form of law, perhaps with the form of regulation here in Euskadi, of course, but the first thing that needs to be done is to respect the legal order. And measures have already been proposed here in the Congress of Deputies, some sleeping the dream of the righteous, others have been raised more recently, and some of the groups present in this House are curious that they were even for the work of supporting those proposals that have been made recently in the Congress of Deputies, because this is not a matter of political acronyms, this is a matter of people's health and is perhaps the first responsibility that every State, every country, every autonomous community and every governing body has. We already know all this, ladies and gentlemen. We, why are we opposed to this law, why are we voting against it? Look, we are going to vote against for reasons of form and substance. The reasons in form we have already mentioned before. A regulation, legislation of this importance that affects, that affects, I will no longer say that it violates, that it directly violates... no, that it affects, that it concerns fundamental rights, because it has to go with all the necessary legal guarantees, because it hears, perhaps, apart from the content that has been proposed in this law, it would have to be approved by organic law. At best part of the content would have to be approved by organic law, at best there is part of the content that goes beyond the competence field, at best it is more reasonable for the autonomous communities, certain subjects or certain competences to be exercised by the autonomous communities. I am not going there, that is indeed a debate for then because a procedure of amendments or even in committee, but the important thing at the moment is to make it clear that this law is being taken, this law is being taken because it lacks such legal reports. And that's something we criticize, any of the groups that are here, in the opposite position would. The two groups that support the government if... they would do it otherwise, that is, they would criticize it equally, as in fact they have done in the Congress of Deputies, as in fact I have seen them do in the Congress of Deputies and also rightly so. Substantive issues, what are the substantive issues. Look, as far as the substantive issues are concerned, I am also not going to bore you with a detailed article-by-article analysis, but, man, I would like to point out that it is a law that includes content that mixes the situation of alarm with a state of alarm. By mixing these situations, it alters what is the situation in an alarm state by law a series of measures, which is very convenient for a Government from the legal point of view, because in the current state of alarm, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, if we are imposed on some measures, which is done by decree of the lehendakari, we as individuals, associations, companies, institutions, have the possibility of resorting to ordinary justice, to an ordinary judge, as in fact, has happened in the case of the hotel industry. On the other hand, if these measures, let us say, are introduced into a law, there is a legal phenomenon, you know it, freezing of rank, the lawyers know it, if it is introduced into a law the effect is that we can no longer resort directly to an ordinary court to answer that, to an ordinary court, but the process of cancelling those measures would be much slower, because eventually the Constitutional Court itself would have to intervene and this has been going on for a very long time. So what it may seem about paper, come on, is that we raise it to the rank of law, already, but here what is being sought is a procedural rigour, that on the one hand. On the other hand, well, a different content is introduced than the precautionary principle, by the way, the issue of confinement is also something to be reviewed. In some specific cases, what is the declaration of emergency is mixed with what is the attribution of the direction of the topic of civil protection; that is, I believe that, unlike what Mr Telleria has said, with which, I insist, I share the substance of the matter, there is a need for a legal framework that allows the public authorities to intervene in this situation, but coinciding with the final objective or coinciding with the essence, I disagree with regard to this law. This law is not essential and urgent, as the groups supporting the Government have said, it is not ideal, and above all it does not have the vocation of consensus either, because, of course, after minimal exchange of views between the groups in this House and the members of the Government, there has suddenly appeared a relatively long bill, moreover, carried out, I insist, carried out by the Government, not carried out by the parliamentary groups. This may seem a minor issue, but it is that in the document that they circulated between the groups and before the press, it is that, counsel, they did not even bother to erase the fingerprint, appears as the author of the document the director of Legislative Development, is that it appears directly his name, names and surnames, by the way. Man, (...) directly already the government, the address: take, this is the law, take, this is such... I believe that this Parliament deserves, at least, that we take care of the forms, so we are going to oppose it on substantive issues. I insist, what we believe is that we need to do things right on this very serious issue. You can't start the house on the roof. We believe that what must be done, first, is to propose a reform of national legislation, to propose a reform of national legislation, and then from there, yes, that we should come from the autonomous communities and that, at an autonomous level, it should be established by the necessary developments. But if we start this backwards, on the other hand, as so many times is done in this autonomous state and then the legal difficulties come, this is not going to bring legal certainty, as the groups of the Government said, it is not going to add legal certainty, rather quite the opposite, what it is going to do is add legal insecurity, legal insecurity. That's why we're going to oppose it. This law has not been able..., said Mr. Telleria that it is a law that arises with the vocation of consensus. Well, man, you've been unable to attract any of the groups, that is, any of the groups... [[End of tape 6]] [[Start of tape 7]] ...that it is a law that arises with the vocation of consensus. For man, he has been unable to attract any of the groups, that is, none of the groups will support the consideration. I believe that this is something that should also make the government think. Obviously, today's vote we all know what it is going to be, the parliamentary arithmetic and the majorities in this House will make it come forward. But, man, what is very important in the parliamentary sphere, which is the ability to persuade the opposition groups, I think it leaves much to be desired or, as is often said, has much room for improvement in this regard. No group will specifically or specifically support the consideration. I think that should also make us reflect on the importance of a law of this magnitude starting parliamentary procedure under these conditions. I say, that I have not been the only one who has criticized this law, authoritative voices, some former President of the High Court of Justice, some colleague also, a fellow professor of constitutional law, have also made very important criticisms of this law through the press, very important criticisms, not criticisms – but then you can tell me in the turn of reply, well, Mr Gordillo, but vote in favour and so on, and then in the parliamentary procedure, because we will already fix it. Man, you can't do that. That is to say, if you really want us to reach an agreement, I do not say that we must, before presenting it, agree to the last comma, obviously, because that is the parliamentary process, but we must agree, we must agree between the groups on a general line, above all on which is the central axis and which is the area in which we are going to settle. And that is important and that has not been done, and that has not been done, therefore, consensus, either. That is why we will vote against the adoption of this law, and that is why we will logically continue the parliamentary process. But I would like to finish by recalling what I was saying at the beginning: we are voting against this law because we think, or take it into account, this law, because we think that this is not the way to proceed parliamentaryly or legally. We agree if we really believe that we have to reach an agreement, but also a global agreement, but we cannot start the house on the roof, we must start by establishing common criteria and, from there, that the autonomous communities are developing their legislation. Good. In the turn of reply I will develop some other, perhaps more legal, issue, but that is our position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u8	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Passing on the answering shift, the Basque Socialists, yes, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u9	Thank you, Madam President. I said in the first round that I am here to talk about what we can do from this Parliament to combat this pandemic with legal certainty and not to raise debates that go beyond us. But what I am not going to do is refuse any debate. There has been a lot of talk over the last few days, and it has also been done in these shifts about the stage where we will meet after 9 May, which is where you know that the state of alarm would overcome. And I believe that in order to speak clearly, it must be said that the President of the Government when he spoke of this intention clearly said that the conditions must be met. So let's go step by step, let's go step by step and see if they are met or not, let's see how vaccination goes, for example, which seems to be something that you want to obviate. And the Basque Socialists are absolutely clear, absolutely clear, that the right measures will be taken, as has been the case so far. But unfortunately, with this issue – as with all the issues that have to do with the fight against the pandemic – there is too much political noise, not with the first state of alarm, we remembered when we were talking about 155 covered, when it was said that ordinary legislation was sufficient, but there is also now, there is now, and there is now, Mr Gordillo, with autonomous presidents of the People's Party, your fellow members of the bench, who say that yes or yes the state of alarm must be extended when the People's Party did not even support the state of alarm that today they say must be extended yes or yes. And, by the way, when we knew, through the Senator of Sotosalbos, Mr Maroto, that the People's Party would vote against an extension of the state of alarm. So I'm going to tell you one thing, make it clear, make it clear. We are convinced that the Spanish Government will make the best decision to ensure our health, as it has been so far. But you know that, too? We would like the non-permanent to be clarified and once and for all to say what they want and to commit themselves to it. But this issue – and that is why I was saying at first that I have come to talk about what we can do from here – is not going to be decided in Euskadi, is not going to be decided in this Parliament, let us focus the debate a little bit. We seek to ensure greater legal certainty for decision-making in the fight against the pandemic with or without a state of alarm, and that is the reason for this law. Mr Gordillo said that he made a criticism of form, that is to say, a proposal for an urgent law, believing that we want to skip the proceedings, and that it goes beyond competence and that this will end up in the Constitutional Court. And I have to tell you, Mr Gordillo, that as much as you wish to disguise in legal reasons, the half hour you have put us in this Parliament, your position simply corresponds to a perfectly defined political strategy even before you know the content of this law. And I didn't know we were going to play the trades, you've come up here as a university professor, I'm going to play the trades too. Ekain Rico, a humble lawyer, I am going to raise before this jury, before this Basque Parliament, the questions that prove that you had taken this decision before you knew the text of the law. 26 March, 11:45 a.m., the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group register before this House the proposal for a law. At 12 noon we had a press conference called that started a little late... [[End of tape 7]] [[Start of tape 8]] ... the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group register before this House the proposal for a law. At 12 noon we had a press conference that started a little late and lasted, about 20 minutes. And that is when we send the text of the law to members of the press and members of parliamentary groups. By the way, not you, not you. But proof number, session diary of that day, March 26, 12 and 36, we were at the press conference. Mr. Gordillo calls Councillor Azpiazu. And he tells him that we are presenting as a legislative proposal to avoid the reports of the COJUA, that we are doing so through the urgent procedure to skip parliamentary procedures and legal certainty, that this was a fraud and that this was going to end in the Constitutional Court. 12 and 36. I hadn't given him time to even read the law, you or anyone in your group. And they already had the arguments that you used here today, to defend your vote against. But it is also that the position that you are moving us here today, Mr Gordillo, is inconsistent, because you represent the People'sCitizens Group. You are from Citizens, but you represent the People's Citizen Group. And to stage that, they also gave a press conference, yesterday, together, to say that they all go to one as one man. Sounds good to me. We're going to test number two. Do you know what this is, Mr. Gordillo? This is the record of the legal instrument that Mr Feijóo has used, as far as I know, from the People's Party in Galicia to carry out his so-called anti-pandemic law. Do you know what procedure Mr. Feijoo has used? Proposition of urgent law, proposition of urgent law, the same as here. What is it, Mr. Gordillo? Have your P.P. partners perpetrated a fraud in Galicia? Have your fellow members of the People's Party missed legal certainty? Are you undermining the rights of the opposition? That is what you have told us here today, that we are doing by using this procedure. Why in Galicia yes and in Euskadi no? That's just as much a question you'll have to answer. But the amendments that Mr Feijóo has made, as you know, are also being appealed to the Constitutional Court. You know why? Because, among other things, it opens the door to compulsory vaccination to something that goes beyond competition to any autonomous community. It seems that his colleagues from the PP in Galicia can explore their own competences to seek the greatest legal certainty in decision-making, but not in Euskadi. All very coherent, all very coherent. We are open to all legal debates. I personally commit myself to it. But in the paper, which is where he plays, in the paper, as my colleague, Luis Javier Tellería, has said, a paper that, if it were for his vote, would not be formed, because they will vote against for doing the same as their fellow members of the People's Party have done in Galicia. All absolutely consistent. We are open to improvement, and we also want to hear what the rest of the parliamentary groups are going to say in the explanation of vote. And we're going to explore all the points of agreement. But for that, Mr Gordillo, it would be very good if they abandoned pre-empted positions. And it would be very good if, as we have seen, they put the inconsistencies behind them. We will be waiting, because we believe that the fight against coronavirus is a fight of all. All we ask of you is that you have that vocation and coherence. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u10	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Durplexan Mistya, Mrs Marthennez. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u11	Thank you, Madam President. I don't think I have a very loud voice. That's why Mr. Rico didn't come to me. But I am going to address him. But I'm gonna start by saying I wonder what you guys say when you're together. How does Mr. Rico explain the contempt and utter lack of speech of his boss, Mr. Sánchez? Because I guess you both know, Mr. Rico and Mr. Telleria, that we're here, in part, because you haven't made any headway towards that promised law to give autonomy legal tools to manage the pandemic. Not a coma has been written. On the socialist bench they sure know why. He accuses the opposition, very graciously, of political strategy. And yours, what is it, Mr. Rico? You want to explain it to me? I think yours is always a political strategy, from the beginning to the end. On the other hand, the PNV, obsessed, from the first day, with sovereignty and self-government, also of a pandemic that overflows it, that surpasses it, that is national and global, I repeat. And he's proven to have no ability to improve. We talk about legal umbrellas and, in this way, we avoid the key word, which is to do good, because the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country did not stop its claims, because it considered that it had no competence, but because they had done things wrong, without reports, because they did. There are many doubts about its proposed law from this constitutional point of view. And Vox's legal services are already on it, in anticipation that you will strive to adopt a rule to your measure, to do whatever you want, to limit fundamental rights, I repeat, fundamental rights of people, without control and without accountability. In short, this proposal for a law stinks of unconstitutionality, as Mr Lehendakari's claims are contrary to the Constitution. Your roller is already ready. They impose an urgent procedure for a bill that should be a bill. We are prepared, if necessary, for the intervention of judicial bodies. Its sole objective is to free the Basque Government from the necessary judicial control to which it must submit. Its objective is to impose its particular way of doing things. That which has given us such good results and which are also experts in crisis management, as they explain to us today, moreover, or have not explained to us, better said, because Euskadi is in a situation of extreme risk, much worse than any of the neighbouring regions. This proposal is the result of the Spanish Government's disdain and a judicial decision that has not liked an executive, the Basque, which has also shown a fatal incompetence and inability to manage this health, economic and social crisis.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u12	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours. [[End of tape 8]] [[Start of tape 9]] ...health, economic and social.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u13	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, the debate has gone a little where we all saw it. In the end, rather than talking specifically about what the law is, what the parliamentary procedure itself is, we end the arguments ab domine, the criticisms more or less personal, more or less political, are easier, certainly, what happens is that I think this debate is very serious, and above all it is not an easy debate either. Look, you used a phrase at first that I loved, that by the way Margaret Thatcher, that you never refuse a debate. What's happening here is that I think that you have rejected it, because, man, you're in a complicated situation, I understand that, I'm not going to go much deeper into the issue, but I understand that you're in a complicated situation, because your Government, the government that leads your political party in Madrid, is responsible for us being in this situation, and I understand that that's a discomfort with your partners here, who are the ones... who together have to deal with certain issues. In that sense, look, I sympathize with the Lord (...) lehendakari to have such partners that in Madrid the truth is that they are not being... do not be loyal to you or to us, but are not being loyal to the citizenry, I sympathize with Mr Lehendakari here present in that sense. They say we're clear. Look, it's just that you've been confusing, it's that it's been the central government, the Socialist Party, above all, in Madrid that's been confusing here from the beginning. But if you've even said it... it's been said by reps... personalities of the Basque Nationalist Party have said this here, who simply add confusion. And indeed, you have quoted that in the interpellation here Mr Azpiazu took advantage of you to do a press conference and present this law that had previously leaked to the press that we could know some of the contents, and man, it seemed to me one thing, as little, I am not going to say ugly, but man, un elegantly parliamentary. To present there a proposal of law from one day to another, when we had more or less been left to understand that this was an issue that would be discussed before submitting a proposal of law under these conditions. I... have also spoken today, by the way, of the Galician law, nor do I engage in very legal debates so as not to tire your lordships out. The Galician case is a little different, especially because what is done is to reform its own law, etc. Well, we could get into that debate, I'm not going to refuse it either, but it's curious, because what the President of the Government has done is to use the privilege granted him by the Constitution and the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, which is to appeal (?) directly, because (...) has appealed to the President of the Government. It would be great if this law were passed, then appealed by the President of the Government himself, that would be the spurt. And you know that when... or the President of the Government has recourse to an autonomous law, has the privilege of requesting automatic suspension of the law, which is what the Government does whenever it has recourse to it. That's why I want things to... we want things to be right and this is not the way to do things right. That is why I am offering to the groups of the Government to withdraw this law, to establish a negotiation, to establish a negotiation with the central government and then to negotiate between the groups of this House, to jointly advise, together, a proposal for a law that serves to develop our autonomous powers, to stretch them to the maximum, as you usually say, and to develop here what is desirable once there are general principles, as happens in the places where politicians put the interests of citizens ahead of everything, which is like in Germany. That is why I urge you, I ask you to withdraw this proposal for a law, to negotiate with the Central Government and to negotiate minimum conditions at national level, and then to jointly present a proposal for a law of the groups if you want, but to do so calmly and to do so so so that we actually have a necessary legislative development here. That is why we have today called for the vote against, but that is why we are also a loyal opposition and a handshake, because we understand that despite the comments that certain groups can make, this is a very serious problem and this is a problem for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u15	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. The discussion is over and we'll vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 44; 75; the supporters are 41; the contrary is 7; the exchange is 27; white is 0.1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u16	So the bill is considered. After that, we'll go next to the vote. Together, Podemos Animoska is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u17	Thank you, ma'am, good morning. Well, today, April 21st, we've been in the pandemonium for a year and we're in the fourth wave. We're already involved in "Cubarta olan." And this is the day we begin to consider this question of taking the law against the pandemese. You could tell him it's a little late. The truth is that we would have liked, certainly we would have liked this proposal to have arrived earlier, and we would have liked it too, it is true, that they would have arrived in another way, at least, and it has already been explained profusely here through the Government and not through the parliamentary groups that support it, because that would have implied, among other things, that we would have counted on the mandatory reports that are necessary in this case. But well, the law, the proposal, the proposal of law, arrives today, April 21st, at the height of the pandemic with the hospitals full, with the UCI of Donosti about to collapse, with a web appointment for the vaccination of our elderly, that by obviating the digital gap also works sometimes yes, sometimes not, that is, at a rather... [[End of tape 9]] [[Start of tape 10]] ...that by obviating the digital divide, it also works sometimes yes sometimes not, that is, at a rather complicated time. And this government is actually doing a lot of things quite wrong, but this is not the time to talk about how the pandemic is being managed, it is the time to talk about this law, its law, the law that we are presented with. We know that facing the pandemi is not easy. To face Pandemia, the government work is not easy. And besides, we have experience in that. And that's why we think that we need instruments to handle, even the Juarista instruments, that is, we need a law against the pandecade. And in this sense, as our opposition is always our work of opposition, we will act with care. We are not going to be an irresponsible opposition, we have never been, nor are we going to be on this occasion. And we have to make sure that this law that is to be passed is not an empty role, but serves something, that it shields rights that have been cited to deal with the pandemic and, of course, that it has the parliamentary consensus, which the occasion requires. That is precisely why we abstained from all this. We've read the law you've introduced. And there are some essential content left there. On the other hand, if we trust in punishment, they are treated very long. It regulates punishment in a profuse, intense manner, but does not define government management or action in an effective manner. It's a law that puts some patches, but it doesn't solve anything. We have particular proposals to make to this law. We have worked, and we have propositions, and we believe that these proposals will improve the law, this law. And that's why we want to give a discussion about the law because we want our proposals to be included. That is, we certainly aspire to change the text that we have been presented so that we can say that we have the Basque anti-pandemic law, not its anti-pandemic law. That is why I invite you to accept this challenge, to get to work, and not to take the easy path, which is to cast an absolute majority and to pass a law without agreement. That is why our abstention is a critical, but positive, abstention. Critical Abstenxion, but we're the one who proposes it. Hori Bai, we've met. Please do not take this abstention as a yes. We do not like the text that we have been presented with, we want to agree on a better text. If we are not able to arrive at a better text among all, we would be forced at the end of the parliamentary procedure to vote otherwise. And it's not what we wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Gather the EH team, Mrs. Irart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u19	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. We can't deny that we are faced with a very serious situation because the data of COVID19 shows us this every day. And measures must be of size, intelligible, connected with the scientific evidence of the moment, and, above all, effective. And this has not been seen so far, because the government has begun this crisis with improvisation, and in its rude way of doing it. And in this legislation, too, you can see that. We have had a year of pandemic in which there has been no structural change or response that has gone beyond permanently restricting and blaming citizens. You haven't been able to form a permanent, functional frame for each other. And now this hypothesis appears to us as a metaphor for your management, because a fictional law is absolutely subordinate to the permit and the decisions of Madrid. It won't be settled here. That's what we heard. We are confronted with a legal proposition, which is polytically, morally, and is of the greatest importance, which is very little of a medical point of view. We are dealing with a proposal that is clearly better, both from a legal, political and, of course, from a health point of view. And by the way, and by the way, it's also an important language chapuza. All you have to do is read the Euskade version to see what kind of blunders they're involved in. The composition of the proposition of the law is the reflection of a formidable political impotence, of the inpotence produced by the dependence of Spain, of the conversion of the government in the present state of the Spanish alarm. And there's a recipe in front of this impotence, and that's self-determination. The vertigo that enters the Basque Government in view of the prospect of having to deal with the pandemic with its own means is the greatest confession of impotence, it is the greatest recognition that we do not have at our disposal all the necessary instruments to care for people and that we do not even express to the maximum what we have. And since they demonstrate this impotence openly, just tell them that this importance has healing and is called sovereignty. From the legal point of view, this want of independence has taken a turn, but I am also afraid it has not been invented. On the whole, it cannot be denied that it is a law which has been directed from the Julian point of view to Spain, a law which has been feared by the Constitution of Spain, and I do not know whether a greatgenuidade has not been deliberately or involuntarily fertilized. But we have come, we think, to one of the most important points of view. At the outset, it is worth noting that there is no mention in the whole law, not even in the explanatory statement, either to the WHO or to the European Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, nothing being a law against the pandemic. But there is neither research nor measures to alleviate the economic and social consequences of the crisis... [[End of tape 10]] [[Start of tape 11]] ...nothing, it's a law against the pandemic. But there is neither research nor measures to alleviate the economic and social consequences of the health crisis, nor the need to strengthen public health and care services. It forgets all that and, however, it raises to the category of law what should not be more than a regulation, as it is to establish different scenarios and levels with very specific numbers. And those scenarios and levels, moreover, do not match, for the most part, the scientific evidence currently available. And he does not even mention so many other measures which are necessary: To strengthen the members of the community, especially the first attention, the strengthening of public health. We don't know where they come from except half the cases here. There's no mention of the need to find new dealers, etc., etc., etc., etc. And apart from the obvious gaps in the sanitary area, it's very striking that economic damages are not even apparent, and that social damages are also lightened. And this one. Law cannot be passed without introducing a stable mechanism of compensation and accompaniment to the sectors concerned. Another defect, the town, those who have been engaged in the first line of the palace, leaves them without words or initiative, with their hands tied. But there is one thing in the law. It is almost a third part of the law to punish the people. Almost a third of the anti-vidian law is for sanctions, sanctions against citizenship. It has been a constant of this Government to shake up all responsibility in the management of the pandemic and always blame others. When in reality people have not, in general, done anything that the Government would not have allowed or encouraged. It also draws our attention to the fact that the law is being flogged against what has been passed by this Parliament, as a legal support for the adoption of punitive or punitive restrictive measures. In any case, we have recourse to abscession. You saw it. Because in this law, we need independent means of protecting people and guarding them, and we're willing to work on it. We will listen to the Tramital of this law, to receive their contributions, to direct this proposal, and to place it in the right direction, and to raise the continents of the various agents and scholars round the law. You will find the landlord, the changeer, the full-grown man, and the citizens on the way to build a law which is really effective for them to protect and protect. It is in your power, as has been said, to establish a permanent and functional frame. And the strategy of managing your pandemies to be different from that which has hitherto been, and also to give them a correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Third point in theme list: "Punciation of the equivalent of the parlamentary teams in Basque Autonomy about the efficiency of the pandemy in Erronia. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Mrs. Ubera, representative of the EH Collect Group, has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u21	Good morning, everyone. We're still talking about pandemia, the pandemia. No doubt because it's more a matter of public concern than of any of us ever. But before I begin to speak, I wish to greet them, and I particularly wish to remember, in the defence of public employment, in the defence of stability, against the model of fraud, the workers who have gone out of the streets and are mobilizing. And especially do I wish to remember the fourth, the fifth constant waves, all the workers of Osamen, whom we have condemned to perpetual labour and stress. Because it's easy to tell you that Osax has the ability to keep the job load now. But who's dealing with it all? Who's constantly denying their vacation permits? Who's continually tenseing for 14 months? Who? Wrong strategy taken by the government, who do they pay? Or what effect does the want and lack of understanding produce to us here, when we are in company? Today's proposal is about indicators and we want to talk about it especially. As you know Spanish, you were in the iris. The pandemia has many spikes. And to work on each apex and to consider complexity is indispensable. We've talked a lot about this. If we wish to be strong and efficient, we must face the pandemy. And in this sense it is necessary that the indicator should be good, and that it should be identified and placed in the strategic areas. We don't mean that the Medical Department won't do it, because since December, at least since we've begun to make our strength on this matter, it started to move and it's true that it's going. But we think that it is necessary to penetrate into indicators, and into the regions to identify them, if we wish to anticipate or prevent the virus, or to anticipate the scenes which may come, to penetrate into the study of different variations, and to determine better how to act with the measures of prevention. The different variants of virus have aroused the alarm around the health situation and potential developments, and even the possible effects of the insertion campaign. And we're watching what's happened in ours with the British variant. Not so many a time ago we were told that it wasn't easy to be calm. But now the British variant has become ours. And after the question we questioned the health chief physician on the other side, the head physician replied, "The Brazilian, the South African, the Nigerian, these modifications are in ours." [[End of tape 11]] [[Start of tape 12]] ... After our question to the chief physician, the chief physician of health answered us, the Brazilian, the South African, the Nigerian, these modifications are already in ours. And if that goes on, I don't know how much we'll have. But it is true also that experts tell us that each person is a variation. But we're seeing the varieties we've been talking about... the weight that they're being developed in the pandemos. So we think it's important to focus on the sequence of PCR samples, investigation, continuity, and sequence as much as possible. It's important. And at least we're working on something. But we need infrastructure for that. We need infrastructure. You have to make a bet to make those infrastructure strong. We need to reinforce the Oss' labs. And the work with the research centers has to be a diary and it has to be structured because it's not just a sequence that comes with the covida now. It was done already, with flu and several other samples. But they were sent to Madrid. And here also there was a request from the research center to buy the infrastructure, and it wasn't done. And it didn't. And see now. It seems, then, to me that the end must be permanent, and that the length must be fixed, and that it must be invested here. And it's important that you identify certain areas of health, in our opinion. And, no doubt, the health field must be identified. We must consider the health workers and the health workers, the family and relations. We could get a lot of data out of that. And besides, we'll have facts in different situations. For instance, most of them have had vaccination now, which at least they have desired. To examine the samples of those who have taken the vaccines and given them positive, to examine the samples of those who are working at Osar, because they are in the first row themselves, working with all sorts of alterations. So we think it's a matter of care, and it's an important area to be investigated, because it'll give us a lot of data at the same time. And even among the health professionals there are no doubt fields and fields. For example, there may be a fundamental field of attention. That's where the most anxious patients arrive. And the study of the native PCR samples will give us a great deal of data from which, by investigating, we need to deal with treatments or other things. It was the school's suggestion that we had another field. We think, and we have often mentioned this, that it is a strategic area, to focus the school in it, to investigate its samples in a chronogram, to study its contents, to study them, to continue to be controlled by a larger area, to see, to turn to development... As far as he saw the British development, and he saw the pandemia change their independence from the beginning. So we think the school area is important too. The samples are routine, routine, because they don't deal with routines so far. And that test of routine. And today, we want to ask the Medical Department to make a bet with the means to get deep in the study for the good indicators and the identification of the strategic grounds. The feeling that we have is often, and not now, outside pandemy, we all talk a great deal about our investigations. But, clarro, the way he doesn't give the results for the time being, he invests in the investigation, unfortunately. And we need to search for treatments so that we can penetrate into prevention. And that's the simple initiative we've brought today, but it's as important as simple. And I want to repeat what I've said, only this is not enough. We must consider all the paintings, because, as we have often spoken to each other, and, as we have mentioned in the commissions, all of us are a very complex subject, and we must consider all the apes. But that's what you need to invest, you need to invest. And it can't be played to prevent the budget from balance or worse than it is to save. The government that invests but little in a pandemy has done something wrong. That's right. And necessarily in this complexity, and in this consideration of all the vertices, there is no doubt but a series of research groups must be strengthened, the equipment must increase, to inquire into where infections are given, because we are still in the same condition as we are in the course of fourteen months. We've got to get better in treatment too. I'm shooting at daily bulletins now, sometimes we can improve it in 0.5, but again we're going back to a week or two. But from that 4950% we can't really go deep and make it easier for us to do it. You have to redefine the browsing protocols that haven't worked out, you see. And that's objective data. We've got to take specific measures for closed space. It's not enough with recommendations. And here we have not taken a step and a qualitative leap, the importance of already closed spaces, when all the world insists on all scientific evidence and becomes clear. But we're still there. The focus has been focused on the public transport. The tracker equipment needs to be reinforced. When we pass from one rank to another, that is to say, we have certain rates of independence, which tell us when we pass from one rank to another, and then what measures we must take in each grade. But that's where we need to go to smaller numbers. We can't chrome and normalize the impact rate we've followed. We can't go on. And that should take another turn. The citizens must be informed. I said it yesterday on the committee. It's not the same information or... [[End of tape 12]] [[Start of tape 13]] ... We can't go on. And that should take another turn. The citizens must be informed. I said it yesterday on the committee. It's not like reporting or advertising. It's not the same. Two things are very different. And the citizens must be informed. And we have to become companions and agents concerned and active. I don't know, maybe it's late now. But I don't think it's ever later. Let us become guests and merchants and accomplices. Let's give them a little business. Let's play there, get the citizens out of the way, and get the agents to get their hands on. Even the protocols of age must be forwarded and redesigned. We can't have the older ones in custody. We cannot limit their freedom. Plus, in open space. They're always the biggest losers. It doesn't matter if it's the first wave, second, fourth. We've improved a lot. Now that all have been included, they themselves are still the most severe. Let's go for a walk around these things. And a hospital organization. We've got to unite the officials. We're still seeing, for instance, criteria not equal in the YIUs and the Donosts. The poor people in Donostian ZI in Aran, they're not in the ZIU, they're on the planet. We must combine criteria, organization criteria, etc. And then we've insisted on this a lot. And our professionals, we have to look after our professionals. Contracts should be stable, long. Look, a contract for nurses from the Espaulment of Donostea ends in May 18th, May 18th. And they don't even know what's going to happen with them yet. I was talking to a professional yesterday. He had to go to Cadiz. How is that possible? Yes, yes. And these things are happening. We have an enormous lack of professionals, and what do we offer them? What do we really do to stay with us? And that's the proposition we've brought here today. That's where you can read it. And I wanted to end up with the contractation of the workers and the conditions of the workers, as I have begun, because they are essential. As I said, it's easy to say, member of Osa has the ability to face the jobload, but who do they do it? How do we have them? On what condition do we have them? How long do we have to keep them like that? What do we offer them? It seems to me that we must ask ourselves questions, to give the questions as well as possible the best answers. And it seems to me and it's a pity to have brought this proposition here today and not to have a space for each other, more than ever, with differences and disputes, and sometimes severe debates, because it's at last a space to control it... then it seems to me that we ought to have a much larger vision than in childishness, and that we should all act with a greater generosity, not by ourselves or by partial interests, but because the health of all is at stake. A colleague used to say to me: "That's the Russian roulette, and we're all in the bonbo, all of us. We're all in this house, too."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over the teams who were running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Cyans, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u23	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Good morning, chief of departments. Well, we're talking about pandemia again. We talk about this subject every week, especially yesterday, when we had a precise appearance, like every week, of the chief physician. And today we're discussing an initiative. As we all know, the situation is very serious. And the rate of infection is enormous. And the rate of independence is about 1,000 people. We can also say that hospital condition is very serious with people who have been there. And in specials, with people who come into the UCI and who are at the moment, 158 people. We believe that this government does not do things as it ought to do. And especially when it's a bad stage, that the government has to direct specific messages and that it's doing the opposite right now. And sometimes, as we see, criteria change, and instead of getting better and better in the situation where people are, it seems to be worse. But that it is also evident, and because it does not trust what the Government does, it is contempt. As I said, the situation is delicate, the number of infections is very high. We round the 1,000 contagions. The saturation of the hospital system is also evidence, with 158 people in the ICUs, with situations of critics similar to the first wave and with increases in hospitalizations or increments of 600 patients in one week, also in the hospitals of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. It seems that no autonomous community... [[End of tape 13]] [[Start of tape 14]] ... or increases of 600 patients in one week also in the hospitals of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. It seems that no autonomous community has the figures currently presented by Euskadi, nor such a delicate picture. Neither Navarra, which recently happened to us in number of contagions and at some worrying rates, is now better than we are. I think it is necessary, and so I spoke on the previous Friday, when I directed my interference to the health department, to know what reasons are, why we are here. Again, considering the measures which have been set in motion are very severe, and especially those which are directed to certain sectors. It was essential to make that reflection. And this government, still deep and accurate reflection, we believe, hasn't done it. I think it is appropriate, at this point, to know the reasons why we are here after having such restrictive measures, the most restrictive measures that can be taken, and that they are clearly not working. It is necessary to know the causes of these repuntes, where the focus is. It is not measured exactly or is not effectively being measured where the focus is to stop the contagion. And as I said in my interrogation last Friday, there is no real epidemiological analysis of where the contagions are occurring. Because, if not, the solutions would be corrected or other solutions put in place, improved and at least addressed in the solutions. And it doesn't look like it's happening right now. We also do not know why large concentrations are allowed when the negative effects that would follow were perfectly known. It's just that those negative effects were known, which are what we're having right now. In the high incidences that then have an impact, as the counselor explained to us yesterday, in hospitals, both in plant income and in ICUs, and I will not tell people who, unfortunately, die. The behavior of the new variants, this is certainly unknown by the virus' own mutations. And I think that is what EH Bildu's initiative today is about strengthening sentinel indicators to effectively respond to the epidemic in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. We thought there were some interesting things about this initiative, but we did believe that it was better framed in some other points. And that is why we are submitting an amendment to the whole of it. I am not going to refer to EH Bildu's specific initiative because Mrs Ubera has explained it, and she has also explained it with the rigour that characterizes her in presenting her initiatives, but I think that in some issues I do think it was better to bring some other aspects to the table than we in this whole process, not only of the management of the pandemic, but of the management of the vaccination process itself, we believe that we need to reinforce and that in some way they are linked to some things or issues that arise in the proposer's initiative. We believe that the epidemiological surveillance service dependent on public health needs to be strengthened. This is something that we have reiterated on many occasions and practically in all the debates, not only said it, but incorporated it in an amendment. In that regard, the necessary resources must be provided to ensure priorities in the epidemiological information system that could adequately guide subsequent decision-making. For us this is absolutely priority and necessary. We also urge the Basque Government to prioritise the use of available diagnostic tests in those groups that represent a higher risk of transmission, in order to achieve greater efficiency in the use of public resources and in the management of the pandemic. That is also something we have consistently proposed in our initiatives. On the other hand, we also believe that the Basque Government should be urged to ensure that the criteria used in choosing the most appropriate tests, as well as the populations, which are determined by epidemiology specialists and (?) and not based on political and media interests. That is, that these populations that are subjected to these tests are chosen according to strict epidemiological criteria by specialists in microbiology and epidemiology. On the other hand, one thing we have also reiterated in many of our proposals is that it is available... that the laboratories have the... the laboratories of the hospitals of Osakidetza the necessary means for the sequencing to allow a precise knowledge of the distribution of the different variants of the coronavirus in our community. I believe that this is also another important aspect. And finally, we urge you to make available and ensure the availability of diagnostic tests by salivary sample that has a high sensitivity and offer greater acceptability and comfort, especially for our elderly people. We think these points are important. I know some people have nothing to do with the proposed proposal. Others do. And I think they're necessary right now. The Jéltarian Party and the Sociistic Party proposition proposed, well, it doesn't say too much. All right with what we're doing here. But he says no more. But, well, we're not going to vote for it. We're going to be a little overreacting. And to the proposal presented by EH Biltek. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u24	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. Mr. Rico, your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u25	Thank you, Madam President. I will begin by making a synthesis of what will be my intervention. We agree with the proposer group that sequencing the coronavirus is an important tool to identify the progression of its different variants or detect new... [[End of tape 14]] [[CHAPTER XV. THE beginning of the tape.]] ...proponent, in which coronavirus sequencing is an important tool to identify the progression of its different variants or detect new ones. But we understand that this sequencing must be done according to the parameters that have been established for it by the health and epidemiological authorities, and not by the criteria that with all the good will of the world – and go ahead, that I do not doubt – can have any political group. Indeed, as Mrs Ubera has said, we have spoken on many occasions about this issue and, in fact, a number of requests have been made for documented information on this issue, in which answers will be able to find much of the points I am going to raise today. On 14 January, the proposing group itself asked the department about these issues and subsequently recorded the GNP that we discussed today before receiving the answer. Response that has also been completed with the referral to this House, at the request of the People-Citizens Group, of the specific protocol of genomic sequencing in the surveillance of the coronavirus, approved in January of this same year by the Presentation of Alerts and Plans of Preparation and Response, and by the Public Health Commission of the Interterritorial Council. As reported in these responses, since the beginning of the pandemic, the Microbiology Services of Osakidetza are participating in a National Consortium, SECOVID, which studies the transmission patterns of VOCID-19, combining data from the sequencing of the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, with clinical and epidemiological information of patients. So far, more than 1,000 sequences have been characterized, accounting for 0.73% of the positive samples from the beginning of the pandemic to the present. Thus, the Basque Country provides a significant number of samples to this project, in which 6,689 strains of SARS-CoV-2 have been sequenced at the state level for the time being. In order to identify new variants of coronavirus, several strategies have been implemented: the establishment of an active microbiological surveillance system, through random and daily sampling of samples of patients with confirmed coronavirus infection; the design of a specific protocol for the detection of epidemiologically suspicious cases, identified through the epidemiological surveillance network's case tracking system; the specific study in groups where a high rate of virus transmissibility is observed; and also the outbreak study. Also, as you know from the information we have all received in this House on 22 January, a specific protocol was approved for the integration of genomic sequencing in the surveillance of the coronavirus, within the framework of the Alerts and Plans of Preparation and Response, and by the Public Health Commission of the Interterritorial Council. A protocol which, as set out in the document itself, is constantly being revised in the light of developments and new scientific information which is available, in fact, has already been updated once. Why was this protocol made? Well, on 19 January, the European Commission issued a statement urging EU countries to increase the sequencing rate because, as the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control pointed out, it had been found that only one Member State, only one Member State, was analysing more than 1% of the samples, while all the others were not sequencing enough, even not sequencing. In this sense, three days after the publication of the European Commission's communiqué, in Spain we approved the protocol we have been talking about, in which it is proposed to analyse a number of samples that are around 1 or 2 % of the cases, in order to gradually increase these sequencing percentages to reach the target proposed by the European Union, which is between 5 and 10 %. More importantly, this protocol establishes a specific procedure in accordance with the guidelines that the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control itself has developed, even establishing specific guidelines for the sequencing of each variant. Because, within the protocol, the objectives, the key points to take into account for the integration of sequencing in surveillance systems, and also the procedure to follow, and the cases and situations in which sequencing will be indicated, and even the number of sample orientations to be sequencing by each autonomous community, also in Euskadi. And the truth is that by analyzing it, little or nothing has to do with what the proposing group is proposing to us today. I have already said from the outset that I do not question his goodwill, but the truth is that we find it more reasonable to follow the sequencing guidelines set by the experts of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control and the experts of the Alerts and Preparedness and Response Plans Office of the Public Commission of the Inter-Territorial Council, than to change those guidelines according to the indications of any political group, but of none, not even of our own. We believe that it is a simple logic and that it can be understood perfectly. And, really, although Mrs Garrido is not too much of a supporter, that is our amendment. Our amendment is "to keep the Basque Government sequencing the coronavirus according to the criteria established by these health and epidemiological authorities, with the aim of analysing the presence and evolution of the different mutations of the virus, as well as to continue carrying out the screenings in the geographical or collective areas in which the evolution of the contagions so advises according to these epidemiological criteria". Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u26	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u27	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning again, everyone. Mrs. Chief. Partners. I know I'm as persistent as the covid, but I can't resist thinking that GNP of these characteristics doesn't make much sense in this forum. I know that I am persistent as the covid, but I will not fail to think that this type of LNG carries an excessively technical content that, at least to me, overflows me – despite my extensive knowledge, more derived from my age than from my academic knowledge itself. From here I am not going to talk about what has really been talked about, but about what is really asked in the GNP, because they are two totally different things. Good. Basically, this is a debate that Mrs Ubera brings to us because some epidemiologist has told her what he thinks about improvements in the management and traceability of COVID-19, and she transfers it to the plenary of Parliament for others to talk to other epidemiologists about how right Mrs Ubera's epidemiologist is or is not. But basically we have no idea what we're talking about, because they're so technical and specific that only those who know a lot about the subject can talk about them with property, and not just... [[End of tape 15]] [[Start of tape 16]] ...no one has any idea what we're talking about, because they're so technical and specific that only those who know a lot about the subject can talk about it with property and not just with a workshop need a long career. We and we, we recognize it, we talk about hearing. And the reality is that more than probably the epidemiologists who have blown Mrs Ubera from the topic she has brought to the plenary, they do so because in addition to having an idea of improving the management and monitoring of the pandemic, they probably do not belong to the management and monitoring bodies of the pandemic. Meanwhile, I at least moved into this debate what the epidemiologists who are at the forefront of the management and monitoring of the pandemic tell me. But even if I were really a redoubling bum and hadn't even given them a minute to consult with them, I would bring here the pandemic management and monitoring model that they have been leading and overseeing. And why do I say this, for something very simple. Because they and they are the ones who are leading the management and monitoring of the pandemic, because they and they are the ones who have the most information at the moment and they and they are the ones who have the mission to make the decisions of how many PCRs to make, to whom or when. They and they are the ones who make the decisions of the different sequences to be made, when and how, and they and they are the ones with advisors, they and they are the ones who maintain contact with other specialist bodies in Europe and the world, and they and they are the ones who constantly review scientific technical information and contrast it with other colleagues in similar positions. All of this makes us think logically that the decisions they and they make are the ones that seem most appropriate, and it may seem to be an act of faith, which is likely to be, but it would be, in any case, the same act of faith that Mrs Ubera puts before us here regarding what her advisers think. Without this having to serve as a demonstration of anything, I am going to go down for a moment to the technical scenario in which Mrs Ubera wishes this debate to take place, although I will continue to believe that this forum is for another kind of debate, unless this Parliament is set up at a permanent congress of Epidemiology. In the first case, let us clarify concepts. Coronavirus occasionally generates variants, permanently variants, but there are some that are especially significant because they accumulate more limitations. And epidemiologists who are very smart for Epidemiology aren't so smart to call these things. As they are interested in these variants, they call them interesting variants. Okay, that's what I'm staying with. Then there are other variants within the interesting ones, which they call them in... nor by giving them many turns to semantics, they call them worrying, because they worry, that in addition to accumulating mutations, they have especially alarming characteristics for public health, which I would summarize in the triple axis speed, damage and resistance; that is, they have more transmissibility, more pathogenicity and can partially escape the immune response that the vaccine can give us. In this sense, and as worrying, not only interesting, there are three variants, at the moment: British, South African and Brazilian. From here, what to watch, what to have, what to be sentinel about. To begin with, we must follow the guidelines of a document called Integration of genomic sequencing in SARS-CoV-2 surveillance, prepared by the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control, acronym ECDC, are not confused with ACDC, ECDC, which is of the European Commission, which in a communiqué of 19 January this year, and which approves it the presentation of Alerts and Plans of Preparation and Response of the Interterritorial Council Health Commission. This document proposes to carry out the sequencing in a planned and representative way of the society in 1 or 2% of the positive samples. And now let's clarify how things are being watched here in Euskadi. On the one hand, the three worries are monitored, logically, from special PCRs that identify the particular mutations of each variant. And in this case, in Euskadi they are being made in a percentage of more than 40, but more than 50% of all new cases. The purpose of this comprehensive monitoring, which is exhaustive, is that in case of detection of Brazilian or South African variants, because the British already know that it is installed among us in a very normalized way, Public Health is immediately informed for once detected with these traces, try to minimize or slow down the introduction and expansion of these strains, and if possible, intercept them, because this is important for the vaccination to progress as much as possible before these new strains spread widely and may cause some problem of neutralizing the effect of the vaccine. On the other hand, the new... emergence of possible new variants of concern, i.e. of interesting or random, is monitored by random sequencing of 1 or 2 % of the new cases detected, which is what I referred to earlier when quoting the ECDC. The purpose in this case is totally different from the previous one. In this case, it is a matter of collaborating in a global effort to detect early new variants of concern other than the previous ones, WHO, ECDC and other international agencies have urged all countries to randomly secede a percentage of the new cases and to introduce sequences into the database (...), which is a global database open to researchers from all over the world. And there bioinformatics monitor viral evolution and the possible emergence of new variants of concern. It's a global collaboration. In this analysis we have found at the moment a variant, the Nigerian variant, which at the moment is an interesting variant that could be... become worrying. As can be seen, sampling in Euskadi is extensive and allows to detect the circulation of variants in all areas, including those that you, Mrs Ubera, refer to in your GNP, such as primary care, hospitalization, and in addition, a special effort is put in the search for variants of interest in patients with epidemiological suspicion, hospitalized with serious infections, outbreaks with high attack rate, rapid increase in cases, suspicion of reinfections and positives in vaccinated people. The areas referred to in its GNP are very specific... [[End of tape 16]] [[CHAPTER XVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...high rate of attack, rapid increase in cases, suspected infections and positives in vaccinated people. The areas referred to in its GNP are very specific and certainly of interest, but why is it especially focused on the health field, particularly, and not, for example, on the fire department? Much more useful. Do not hesitate to investigate it in a universal way in all possible areas of virus occurrence. The current follow-up by the Department of Health is more than satisfactory, both in terms of its own needs for monitoring worrying variants and those for variants of interest, which go beyond the recommendations of national and international epidemiological surveillance agencies, assuming very close monitoring of variants of the virus with extrapolable data for the entire population. This is the interesting thing. That is why we believe that our amendment, which requires compliance with those standards, is the right way to work on the monitoring of new viral mutations. His proposal, which focuses the screening of sequencing on very specific populations, would lose the necessary information from the population as a whole, which is of interest. And I don't find it any more meaningful than the possibility of having more comprehensive data to be able to do a doctoral thesis, but now the Department of Health is not for a thesis, it is to advance in the knowledge and solution of this pandemic. We cannot continue to move such technical debates about doing things like this or asa, because, first of all, it is the epidemiologists in charge of operations in Euskadi, in the State and in Europe who have decided to act like this, and for something it will be, and it will not be I – poor of myself – who contradicts them. And apart – although in this case it does not have so much significance – because it is such a specific and technical issue that it escapes the common of mortals. We cannot continue to move one more debate before the population because we are still disconcerting. I ask you to suggest in the next PNL the holding of a congress of epidemiologists of covid, and that there they themselves solve the issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u28	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing on the line of uncorrected teams, Mistya, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u29	Thank you, Madam President. This parliamentary term is a pointless debate. All aimed at failure by the imposition of measures and criteria by two parties that have closed to contributions from others, that have fled from self-criticism, that have never recognized any failure in their management, despite the results, despite the one that is falling. With their vows they will approve of continuing to do what they are doing, continuing to run behind the virus, continuing to limit people's mobility and continuing without conveniently tracking either positives or close contacts. For example, for case tracing, the Basque Government underuses a specific application, and I say underuses it, because from the beginning it has refused to fill out the section on the place of contagion. Apparently, it is information that does not contribute to this issue. I close the bars – without knowing if people are infected there – because I feel like it. On the subway, I don't care if people are overcrowded as if the mask prevents 100% spraying. Nor do I worry about workplaces, because the virus is very respectful of working hours. I wonder what exactly Bildu intends with such a proposal. If this non-legislative proposal carried the seal of my party, from Vox, Bildu would seem an aberration unworthy of being debated. It's the pulcritus you still see in the imposition. Magnificent tools to make makeup politics abertzale. The end justifies the means. And I have to admit that the PP approach is sensible, although it introduces a variable that makes me doubt that it is point number five. It's been months since we've seen people who don't know how to address the citizenry as if we'd had a master's degree in epidemiology, and there are several cases, and they're very significant. Perhaps, if the government were to be guided by real experts – most of whom regret the proliferation of mini-plans, who get their hands on their heads when they look at how to make decisions, who require self-critical management studies to correct mistakes, studies that no one seems willing to do – perhaps, if real experts were to be used, things would otherwise be better. That is why it is difficult for me to vote in favour of the greater provision of diagnostic tests through saliva samples. I honestly do not think it is up to us to take decisions in this regard. Now, if they have based it on expert reports, we are willing to consider it. Finally, one more day of wasted money, of unnecessary debate in this Parliament, of burlesque theatre, of those who call themselves democrats and are unable to debate, to discuss and even less to agree.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u30	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Together the representative of the Podemos Anther, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u31	Good. Although I agree that we are here to hold a political debate and not a technical debate, it seems to me, of course, to be an interesting debate with some of the variants, but also worrying. We understand, and understand, when we read Mrs Ubera's initiative, for its content, after reading the content, that it is an initiative that sought greater commitment and dedication to research, monitoring and control of the pandemic. In that regard, and without fully seeing any of the elements proposed, we have not amended and will vote in favour of the initiative. It seems to us that a higher percentage of the samples should be seceded, especially in the case of specific groups, groups in contact with the virus, groups with higher exposure, such as health care workers. I think we've mentioned it once, it may be useful for epidemiological treatment. We have some nuances with the subject of screenings, we have already expressed it on some occasions too, we do not see so much usefulness in certain types of screenings and we do miss the realization of other types of more specific screenings, but well, we have already talked about this on other occasions and we have exposed it. But, generally speaking, the initiative... [[17th End of tape]] [[Start of tape 18]] ... lack of other more specific screenings. But, well, we've talked about this before on other occasions, and we've exposed it. But, generally speaking, we think it can be useful, for example, to improve knowledge about whether the virulence and severity of the infection that needs hospital admission is linked to a specific mutation or not. Mrs Ubera referred to this. And it is true, a few months ago we heard, in some way, from the government that certain strains, well, in Euskadi tranquillity, that they barely existed, and then we have seen the evolution. These are interesting aspects. Therefore, in our opinion, from the point of view of medical research, of course. And we do not think that they go against the criteria laid down by the health authorities, to which the amendment by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of the Basque Country refers, which Mr Rico, for example, has detailed. Because... We therefore believe that, in general terms, the initiative presented to us is an initiative with improvement measures. It is true that it will need more resources, that it will need more resources. I don't know if that's really the bottom of the differences. We are not going to oppose the amendment by the groups that support the Government, although we are not going to vote for it either, because, after listening to them, I think they understand that every effort is already being made in this area and they do not seem to have considered proposing improvements as a result of this particular initiative. With regard to the amendment by the People's Party and Mrs Garrido, I must say that we think it is right. We also have nuances with the point... with the last point, to which Mrs Martínez has referred, which is sometimes angry because we do not debate with her in this Parliament on political issues. But we think his initiative is right. In some respects we even like it more than some of the original initiative. But your amendment, Mrs Garrido, although I understand that you have to mark the differences, is in line with the one put forward by the EH Bildu Group. I know that you have not reached an agreement on political issues outside the content of the initiative and the specific debate. And I didn't blame him. I'm not even gonna blame him because he seems legitimate to me. I will not question the reasons why you understand that you can or cannot deal with other groups. What I am going to take advantage of is to ask the same respect from our group when we decide, for example, not to participate in a debate in this House for the political reasons that we consider appropriate. I am going to abstain from your amendment, Mrs Garrido, but I have to say that I could have supported it perfectly. I will even tell you that if the vote of our group had depended on the adoption of that amendment, it would have been a vote in favour of those whom your party calls enemies of freedom daily. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u32	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing by the turn of the answers, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u33	Mr. Tellería, I'm not going to sign your political and technical ratings and contempt that you're doing around our initiative. We understand that it's our job to suggest things that can be improved, or, in another way, more efficient, as it is done about all subjects in this Chamber, economics, educations, transports, and such matters... And those aren't... are they politicians? Are they techniques? What's technical? What's political? Why do you insist that the things we bring in health are not political and technical and can't be discussed? I don't understand. What difference is there, and I'd be grateful if you'd be able to explain it to us in the second round, about these things, and about other matters? You'll tell me. But we'll do something right, we'll do something right, because when we get those things registered, the government begins to move in that direction. Maybe we're not that far away. I don't know. .). But I really appreciate lessons. I appreciate the lessons we're learning. You learn something every day. And besides, that's life, a long study. And all the lessons welcome. And we've really learned more today. And whenever you like, we organize this congregation, it may be interesting, and we can all learn more from it, and it will help all of us to make stronger and more efficient proposals in public politics, because we are all here for that. All of us. Because that's what we do. And I would even like to know, throughout the whole pandemy, how much government has made its decisions in technical recommendations and criteria of experts, how much it has been determined by political criteria. I'd love to know. I would like to know how much this government has attended the technical standards of the infection to those who work in public health. I still do. And then a few reflections have been made about deficiencies and confidence. Very interesting to think about this subject. And I think we should all think about what we're imagining and how far we're from the custom of our country. And this is not just one thing that will come against the Government, because, thanks to the strategy which the Government has at this moment established, there is more and more deconcusation to the citizens, not to the parties, to the institutions. And that will bring consequences. But he's not going to be a loser. We'll all be losers, and it'll affect all of us. So I think this consideration should also be made, and it would be interesting if we... [[End of tape 18]] [[Start of tape 19]] ... And it'll affect all of us. I think then that this reflection should also be made, and that it would be interesting to do the work we have here, the manner in which we work and the manner in which we work. And I think there's a few lessons we could do with, and there's a lot to learn. It is also mentioned afterwards that the strengthening of public health. When we talk about public health, the direction of Public Health. He's always been there at a level 3-4 and we've paid for it in the pandema. But instead of strengthening ourselves in the pandemae, we still keep him where he has hitherto had it, and with that weight which he has hitherto had. And we think it would be important to take a turn too, and we've discussed it and brought in several proposals and we should follow it. And from us, it's just this turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. The representative of the Basque Team PopularCiudadnos, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u35	Well, I especially appreciate the speakers who have understood that our initiative on some of the points was accurate or has tried to be precise. If I'm going to stick to explaining point five, that of performing the diagnostic tests by saliva sample. Well, in relation to this point, I have to say that this point has been introduced by indication or suggestion of people who are in this area, in the epidemiological field. There are several studies available and articles on non-invasive salivary diagnoses that could provide a safe, rapid, early and also non-invasive form of detection. I believe that these are the keys to this possible test of detection, and well, as it is thus reflected in numerous scientific articles that show their support for the realization of it, which is the point on which I was asked for clarification. In the rest, well, we have tried to be precise and consistent, especially in relation to what we have advocated so far. All that has to do with strengthening the Epidemiology service, too, well, because prioritize diagnostic tests in those groups that may present a risk of greater transmission because they are in a situation of greater vulnerability, that the criteria when choosing the tests are epidemiological criteria and by technicians, and also, well, that it strengthens everything that has to do with the laboratories. I believe that these are issues that we have held together with the last one, to which I referred to the beginning of the intervention, which we consider to be important at this time. There are undoubtedly many others, but we will also have the opportunity to discuss whether next Thursday or the next motion tabled by our group that affects issues that are also current at this time, such as the whole issue of the tracking network, to improve the tracking network to especially detect where the outbreaks and outbreaks are and to cut off the transmission chains. Also emphasize and prioritize high-risk patients, which many of them are not yet on the (...) radar of Osakidetza, chronic patients. There are also other issues, such as improving everything that needs to be called and citations to people who are likely to be vaccinated, which we all know we have had problems this week, are there and cannot be overlooked, and therefore, today I wanted to focus on these issues, but obviously because this issue is, as it could not otherwise be, topical, because it is about improving the means and answers that are being given, and above all, remedying those deficiencies that can continue to persist and that I believe that the objective is also shared, that the vaccination process be accelerated, that we reach a group immunity as soon as possible and that this nightmare is also ending as soon as possible. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u36	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Well, what I want to insist on is an idea to make it clear. We absolutely agree that we must continue to do the coronavirus sequencing and that we must continue to advance in the number of sequences of that coronavirus. What we do not agree with is how, that is to say, we understand that we have to follow the indications of the experts, which in this case, as you know, was the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control and the Alerts of the Interterritorial Commission. And it is a question, look, even before the political position, because in this area, as my colleague Luis Javier Tellería has said, let me express it, plenty, or at least it is not that about, but it is not as relevant what we think of each other, but not you, us, about how we have to do it, and it does not weigh as much as those who are in the day-to-day of this pandemic and who have marked the guidelines, I say, from within the scope of the European Union itself. As I have said, there is a protocol and that protocol is born because the European Commission warns that there is only one country in the European Union that is sequencing 1%, and that is, Mrs Ubera, we will absolutely agree that it is little, it is very little, and with only three days apart from that communiqué from the European Union, within the framework of the Inter-territorial Council, the presentation of (...) goes to work and takes out a document. A document that has already been modified once, but we are talking about 22 January, which is actually before yesterday and the modification has been February to move all those standards, all those means to make those sequences that have been moved since... [[End of tape 19]] [[XX. The beginning of the tape.]] ... to move all those standards, all those means to make those sequencings that have been moved from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. And when I move you here that what we propose is that it be done this way, it is not that we are posing something involutive, this is what we have to do and here it stops. It's the opposite. It is to follow those protocols which, in their own document, state that they are being amended. I'll say it again, he's already got a change. It was approved in January and has already been amended. So, we're talking about it being an evolutionary process, in which those parameters can change, but not by what I decide, will forgive me, the Socialist Party. But not by what the Basque Nationalist Party decides neither PP nor EH Bildu nor Podemos nor Vox, because in this case, forgive me for saying it, it is irrelevant what we think, it can even be counterproductive. When I vote against your initiative today, I do so because these areas do not coincide, and I have said so from the outset, I understand the goodwill of your initiative, because we also share the final point. We have to expand. But this enlargement is already being implemented in that protocol to which we are a party. It's going up by degrees, 1, 2 %. If you have read the protocol, I have no doubt that Mrs Ubera will have read it, even a number of tests are set to be sequenced by the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. And reach that target of 510 % within the European Union. And if I'm going to vote against what you're proposing is, as I said, because you don't agree, because you're talking about, well, at least one laboratory per autonomous community. I agree and it is reflected in the document. That's what we agreed on. In fact, in Euskadi there are two laboratories, which are the ones taking care of, Cruces and Donostia. But it's about routinely sequencing 50% of the samples. I told you, only one country in the European Union reaches 1. Only one country in the European Union reaches 1. You offer us 50% of the samples. The protocol talks about 1-2 to reach 5-10, which is the final objective that the European Union has set itself. They tell us about prioritizing samples from people admitted to hospitals and healthcare staff, which can be something that, in a non-professional environment, as you and I can be, can have a logic. But if we go to the guidelines set by the European Centre, it is precisely the opposite that is said. First, samples randomly, 80% from primary care and only 20% from hospital care. And he'll tell me, "Explain it to me." I don't know, I can't explain it. That's what I want you to understand when I come up here and I say, "I can't explain it." All I can do is trust that these experts from the European Centre for Prevention are not denying it. And I assure you that at least you have much more training than I do, than you do, and that you have any one of us sitting here in this area. We're not going to throw stones at ourselves either. But in the epidemiological field it is so. And that's what we have to recognize. The regional screenings. Note, the protocol states that the selection should take into account that samples should not come from the same origin. It's explicitly said. I can't explain it to him either, but he says it, he says it. And he says that the sequencing of people vaccinated and positive in his initiative, and in the protocol it is collected. But look, it's picked up, and I do understand that. It seems to me quite easy to understand, that it is interesting to collect this sequencing only in the vaccinated person, with the full dose and in the time that this vaccination has been able to take effect. Because in that case you will be able to determine, that sequencing, whether that infection has exceeded the power of the vaccine. Good. But as you see, this is not what you say in your initiative. Then...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u38	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u39	Yes, I'm sorry. I wasn't looking at time, I'm sorry. All I'm saying is that we are going to vote on our amendment, with the character of evolving over time into more sequences, but as the epidemiological experts say. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u40	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u41	Thank you, ma'am. Look, if the debate is technical-political, everyone will have... I don't have any general theories. Now, when none of the parliamentarians we are here have any idea of having an opinion on a debate that you propose, we are not talking much about politics. And when we are talking, by listening, about what experts tell us, we are talking more about a technical debate. Another thing is that when an opposition group brings a supposedly technical debate here and makes it a politician. Well, everyone can take whatever opinion they want. But I'll tell you one thing. See if the debate was technical and somewhat synsorbing, which you have spent more than half the time, more than half the time of your first intervention talking about strengthening staff. That's not in his GNP. He's nowhere in his GNP. He's been talking about public transport. He's nowhere in his GNP. He's been talking about informing the citizen, he's not here either. He's been talking about senior residences. He's not here either. He talked about the different criteria in UCI, which he is not either. I mean, you've come to talk about your book, because it didn't give any more of itself. And Mrs. Garrido has talked more than half the time about the current epidemiological situation, about the questioning she made last Friday to the councilwoman about the excess of measures, about concentrations by the Bilbao Athletic, about... He then read his amendment quickly and said that ours says little. Why? I just don't know why you say little if you say you have to do what experts say you have to do. I insist that this is a technical debate, no matter how much you want to turn it into something else. With regard to what Mr Hernández, from Elkarrekin Podemos, says that a higher percentage must be made. It's just that I'd like to know what we're talking about, what we're talking about, because Bildu's original GNP itself talks about routinely sequencing 50% of the PCR samples. Of what, for the troubling or the interesting? Because of the worrying in the last fortnight, the... [[End of tape 20]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... CRPs. Of what, for the troubling or the interesting? Because 67% of the worries in the last fortnight have been sequenced, but as they have not differentiated it, because I don't know whether we're doing it right or wrong, because interesting people are doing what the FDC says, 1% to 2%, closer to 1 than 2, it's also true, but they're doing that and they're getting into the World Bank. We'll have to clarify what they're asking for. I insist that it is a technical debate where we do not even know what we are saying. You can say more things, the one who's been sitting with an expert the most and the least that's been sitting with an expert the least. Is that a technical or political debate? What is it? And in any case, I'm not going to run away from any debate, I'm not going to run away from any, what I'm going to try to do is focus the shot where we have to focus it. And if you want to talk about more vaccines, less vaccines, this way, to this group, to this other group, because we will discuss it. But when there are international Euskadi state technical references that say how to proceed in a way, it seems that I understand that these technicians are not alien to what the Podemos, Bildu, PP or mine group might think, and are real experts. If we try to start to differentiate between real experts and lying experts, we almost better not debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u42	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Miss, Mrs Martínnez mustn't speak. There's no need to talk together, Podemos-Toy. [[Pause]] After discussion, we'll vote the original text of the other proposal as the EH Collector. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 44; 75; the supporters are 27; the contrary is 42; the abscesssions, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u43	So it's not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the whole of the Basque Groups of Populars. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 44; 75; the supporters are 6; the contrary is 62; the abscesssions 7; white ones; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u44	So it's not accepted. And finally, Eucabertians, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 44; the votes given, 75; the supporters, 41; the opponents 34; the abstations, 0; white, 0.1,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u45	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Mutation, introduced together by the Coinández Hidalez, the member of the Aniditz team, on the reduction of the temporary stay of the public employment of Eukadin. Discipline and final resolution. Team proposeer's turn. Together, Mr. Hernandez, who represents the Animal Party, has the word to present and defend himself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u46	Good morning again, everyone. Good. The public employment situation in Euskadi is the issue we are going to discuss. The situation of public employment in the Basque Country has at present a terrible X-ray, in our view, and is a reflection of the failure of the Basque Nationalist Party to lead successive governments in public administration and in the political management of public services in this country. Without strong, valued, caring and citizen-friendly public employment, quality public services and administration cannot be provided in line with the real needs of the population. And the reality, unfortunately, is that we have a public employment in our autonomous community, characterized by the opposite of what is needed, rachitic, precarious, mistreated on many occasions and with a very high temporality, as you know perfectly well. We have less public employment than the EU average. Also less than the average of the State, with a outsourcing of services and therefore of highly high jobs. More than 100,000 workers from private companies, in the calculation more... [[End of tape 21]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... with the outsourcing of services and, therefore, of highly high jobs. More than 100,000 workers in private companies, in the most prudent calculation, work through subcontracts for public administrations and Basque public enterprises. No Basque government or public enterprise is freed from perpetual subcontracts. Contracts to the private sector that continue to be awarded year after year for services that are structural and should therefore be undertaken by the public administrations: cleaning services, waste management, maintenance, computer services. The list is very long and on some occasions we have also listed it. Many of these women workers have won trials against the Basque Government precisely because they were actually working, as I said, structurally with the administration. But the precariousness of the Basque administration and of public employment is not only through the outsourcing of staff, but also the temporary or non-fixed personnel, which we know has been fired in the last decade. The temporality of the public sector, we have said it on many occasions, and I think no one denies it, is a scandal. Of the figures that were already high in themselves at the beginning of the century, 31 % in 2005 or 2010, it has now been shot at the environment or above 40 % in all fields, education, health, local administration, foral, etc. With figures greater than or close to 50% in sectors as important as Osakidetza, the Administration of Justice or in education. That is to say, a situation of structural temporality, which is structural, widespread, and, as has already been highly demonstrated, fraudulent on many occasions. We have the highest rate of temporality in the Spanish State and the European Union. It contrasts that with less public employment than the average we have more temporality in public employment. For this reason, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we have presented an initiative that seeks to improve the quality of public employment in Euskadi, because we think it is necessary to improve it to have quality public services and also to give a framework of safety, occupational safety to public employees. An initiative that focuses on the problem of the highest temporality, because it is one of the most scandalous but also most urgent issues, but which addresses other issues necessary for improving the quality of public employment, because it seems to us to be a whole. The problem of temporality should have been addressed a long time ago. But it hasn't been known or wanted to close down. For our group, of course, it is the result of the scant interest of the Basque Government, the successive Basque Governments, in ensuring that there are consolidated staffs that allow for strong and up-to-date public services, as I said, of what the citizens of this country demand and need. As I mentioned earlier, temporaryity currently accounts for 40% of all employees in the public sector. Far ahead of the majority of autonomous communities and far above the temporality in private employment; approximately 17 points above the private sector and 13 points above the average of the autonomous communities throughout the State. These inadmissible figures have not been reached overnight, nor by the art of magic. And of course they do not respond to an inevitable becoming. This is a strategic policy bet that we usually call neoliberal, which ultimately undermines quality in the provision of public services, worsens them and indirectly favours private choices. And with this comes the increase of inequalities. Things have really been done wrong and a precarious public employment model has been allowed and promoted, based, in our view, on two sides: one is excessive and abusive timing and the other is that high level of outsourcing of services to the private sector. A private sector that has made and makes an important deposit box on behalf of public administrations, on behalf of the public sector, on behalf of public money. In our view, public services have been consciously weakened by the search for a weak public sector and a private sector that could take advantage of business niches in the field of public services, even in some cases living exclusively in public services. That is why we argue that, together with the necessary policies aimed at reversing the situation of unacceptable interinity in public employment, it is also necessary to begin to reverse the policy of outsourcing practised by this Government. Such is the magnitude of this government's outsourcing policy, which even reaches the OPE processes themselves, and it is the case that private companies are hired to carry out selective processes, especially in public enterprises, squandering hundreds of thousands of euros in subcontracts to private consultants, when these processes should be managed by the Basque administration's own human resources and civil service. However, we have left out the compromise that we have reached with the EH Bildu group, to which we are grateful for their willingness to reach an agreement, and we have also left out the proposals that we have sent to other groups when trying to negotiate even with the limited time we had, the issue of outsourcing. That, as I have heard on other occasions, it is a very important issue for our group, but that, indeed, when it comes to reaching agreements on more specific issues, we have no problem parking them in specific debates. In addition to an initiative named after the topic of temporality, interinity in public employment. Because, moreover, the issue of temporality, of interinality, because, as I said earlier, is a problem, in addition to being very serious, because, in our opinion, already at this urgent moment, and especially after all the events we have experienced through the European Union, etc.... [[End 22 tape]] [[XXIII. The beginning of the tape.]] ... urgent, and above all, after all the events we have known through the European Union, etc. According to the Basque Government itself, I do not want to go too deep into the figures, but some of them I think it is important to remember today, and especially because they are figures from the Basque Government itself, in Osakidetza, which we are so much talking about lately, as it cannot be otherwise, because the interinity is 58%, it is a brutal interinity, more than 24,000 people in Education, 45% in Education, half the staff, practically. More than 12,000 people in the General Administration, 57%; Justice, 44%. Well, it's really high figures, I think that nobody denies it at this point. There are tens of thousands of workers, workers in a situation of temporality that in the end is also precarious. Four out of ten public workers in Euskadi are temporary, almost half. And the solutions to these issues, and that is where we focus on the initiative, we think that the Government, and we have already told the councillor when I called, we think that it should be approached by the trade unions, because the disastrous picture of public employment, which I have tried to put on the table today and which I am sure will not be shared by the groups supporting the Government, is also a consequence of the lack of capacity and interest of the Basque Government in collective bargaining with the public service unions, which have been denouncing this situation for years, while the ball continued to gain weight. Today, as you know, while we are debating, a general strike is taking place throughout the Basque public sector, throughout the Basque public sector, precisely to fight for quality in public employment. It's the first general strike, I didn't remember, but I just read it, the first general strike in the public sector for 11 years. They have called it precisely to demand an end to the poor state of public employment and to denounce the existing model in Euskadi, including the demand to put an end to the policy of privatization and outsourcing. Not only do they denounce the inadequacy of OPEs that have been convoked in recent years, they also denounce the fraud that is committed with the programme contracts in a regular way, or the contracts of accumulation of tasks; they claim that job relationships, structural staffing, and when they raise the need to expand staffing or improve ratios, they do so because they seek to reduce workloads and regulate them in areas where they are not even regulated, because staffing in the public sector is generally assuming unsustainable workloads, and we are now seeing it in Osakidetza, yes, in the face of a pandemic, of course, we know that it is not the normal situation, but the workloads, denounce the unions, because they are in many cases unsusable. Well, to address all these issues, we think, as I said, that it is absolutely necessary, therefore, to seriously activate collective bargaining. We know what the groups that support the Government are going to tell us, because we have read their amendment and they are going to tell us once again that the Government is negotiating. And well, I don't have the unions here today to ask you, but they're going to be out there today, to ask you, because every time they pass through this house they tell us the same thing: it's not negotiating. Sometimes there are some meetings, sometimes the Government informs us, but it is not being negotiated. And we are very concerned and interested in the negotiation and negotiation of the normative part of that Law of Bodies and Scales that is now on the table, because the amendment of PNV and Socialist Party mentions this, but what we know so far from the unions is that this is not yet being negotiated. As I said, one of the demands that they put on the table with today's strike, one of the things they are asking for, which they are asking the Basque Government, is to negotiate all these issues. Your amendment, which has only two points which you have finally negotiated with the People's Party, which retains those two points, but includes a mention of the principles of merit, equality and capacity which we, of course, do not oppose, Mr Gordillo, much less. They do that approach on those two points, they add nothing else, and well, the expression above all is that the only thing the Government is asked to continue to negotiate, when we certainly understand, because we hear the counterpart, that it is not being negotiated, and therefore, there was a difficult margin of agreement. We propose that a road map be negotiated with its timetable, with its methodology, with its diagnosis of the absolutely necessary situation, identifying the staffing needs of the public administrations, identifying the places. We plan that the plan to rejuvenate a highly ageing workforce be developed through such collective bargaining, and we propose that measures for the control and supervision of public procurement should also be implemented. Because at this point no one can doubt that there has been fraud and abuse in public procurement, and the measures that have been taken to date, obviously if they exist, have failed. That is why we also propose that these issues be negotiated. In short, what we propose is that the road map for the recovery of quality public employment in Euskadi be truly negotiated, so that Euskadi has a quality sector and public services. We think it's time for Euskadi to stop being a gold medal in temporality and subcontracting. We therefore propose that we start negotiating that road map or that we start negotiating that road map Government and trade unions so that this country stops being in the queue and becomes a country that is recognized for ensuring quality public services and employment. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u47	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the popular-Ciudads, Mr. Gordillo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government and thank you to Mr Hernández for bringing to the House an initiative on the issue of public employment that we consider, and I personally consider, as I have also shared it sometimes with Mr Hernández, we share a voice in the... [[End of tape 23]] [[XXI. The beginning of the tape.]] ... on the question of public employment that we consider, and I personally consider, as I have also shared it with Mr Hernández at times, we share a voice in the committee that is, at the moment, analysing the bill, on several bills, one of them on the issue of public employment consolidation. It is a debate of interest. And I believe that this is a matter that we have to deal with in this House. I therefore believe that, from the parliamentary point of view, Mr Hernández, it seems to me to be a debate, of course, relevant, on the subject of public employment. We can agree on some issue, I will now mention it, but, well, in the matter I would like to separate two issues. One, which has to do, man, with what is the current negotiation or the current debate we have about the Law on Bodies and Scales which, as you all know, ladies and gentlemen, is the law which, despite the name, perhaps the star article, as you all know, were two or two provisions relating to the consolidation of public employment in Euskadi. One of them, which has been indirectly declared or considered unconstitutional by the Court as (...). And another is the question of this measure of momentum proposed here today by Mr Hernández, to which I acknowledge his interest, although, of course, we, as I will now explain, have perhaps somewhat lowered our expectations. But, well, we think it has been interesting to reach an agreement with the groups of the Government, whom I thank for your willingness, especially Mrs Larrauri, to continue to make progress on a problem that also concerns us all. Well, first of all, I would like to make some consideration of what public employment is in Euskadi. If I share part of the diagnosis that, obviously, the situation of public employment in Euskadi, let us go, I believe that no group, in fact, even the adviser herself has recognized it in the committee and in this plenary, the situation of public employment in Euskadi is a situation that needs, is bad and needs... The situation in which he is, many public employees, needs to be corrected. Here we can talk about figures. In some sectors it is more than 50%, an average of 50%, can be reduced. But, finally, it is a very serious situation that needs to be corrected. That in the first place. And then there is what is the regulation itself of the situation or what should be public employment. That is why I would like to distinguish two issues here. One is this situation, in which you have to apply almost surgical measures, which is in the current situation looking for a solution to this situation that we have. And the other is that model that we, our group, and that other groups may have partly different, what is going to be the model of public employment for Euskadi, for the Euskadi of the 21st century and, above all, for citizenship. In the committee, as you all know, ladies and gentlemen, we have received all the trade unions. I don't think there's one missing. And then we have received a number of experts too, who have given, all of them, their opinion. As regards the opinion of the trade unions on the two proposals in the law relating to consolidation, there have been different views, as is already known. Here there are unions who consider that general regulation should be taken into account, perhaps. Others more pragmatic say yes, but, well, that we should seek this way of consolidation through procedures, let us say so, abbreviated, etc., which have been partially censored by the Constitutional Court. And there is another trade union position, as is also known, that what it advocates is for a type of consolidation that, perhaps, does not go through a public contest, but that recognizes a situation, let's say, in fact, okay... by a decision also interpreted, with a margin of interpretation of its own, that of a decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union. More or less or the three positions there are. And what has happened is that the debate on this issue to all groups or during the debate has surprised us, precisely, that decision of the Constitutional Court, concerning, by the way, the Police Act of the Basque Country, which included a measure, practically similar or identical, and that, of course, the Law on Bodies and Scales, one of the two final measures, the two final provisions relating to this question must be reconsidered and, above all, another solution must be sought. The subject of public employment, of course, to me personally, and to our group, we would like to go a little further. Some experts have told us that, in terms of public employment, we need to be more ambitious. I can agree quite well, even I would be more ambitious than some of the experts who have been there, to put forward reforms in greater depth, with the view not only of what is the situation of the public employee, who, of course, also has to be a situation in which, to quote a concept that flies today, this plenary, which is legal security, of course, and to know what to do, but also, on the other hand, with regard to what is the service that must be provided to the citizen. In Spain we will have a very important problem when the management of European projects and funds comes to us. You will have to subcontract, you will have to hire, through public procurement, a lot of experts, to manage and to carry out, implement many of these issues. And here too it has been commented, and it is also a thing that is part of public employment, I think that what we have to start thinking about, above all, is to emphasize a more flexible type of public employment, not so much as access, etc., could also be talked about, but, above all, more flexible internally in terms of looking for more generalist profiles and with greater adaptability, in order to change according to the new needs of the Administration. But, well, we understand that it is a problem, the one that exists, the precarious situation in which many public employees live, in a situation of precariousness, especially as regards expectations, in which many public employees live. But, well, we understand it's a problem that's not solved overnight either. And we understand, and that is why we can lower or we have decided here to lower our expectations a little bit, to seek an agreement with the groups that support the Government, to make a little progress, to make a little progress. Of course, the amendment, in the end, which we have negotiated, the contribution we have made concerns equality, merit and capacity. I, too, tabled an amendment initially, which stressed, above all, this, because I would also like to introduce amendments which, of course, although I would go much further, which could perhaps find greater support in this House. And we consider it important to add this, because, although, of course, they are principles that are within the legislation, I think it is important not to lose sight of this issue. We do not want to go much further in the debate, but we do have an important concern about what should be the model of public employment, in general, and of public employment, in particular, here, in our land, in the Basque Country. We have a huge challenge ahead, which is to adopt... [[End of tape 24]] [[Beginning of tape 25.]] ...with what should be the model of public employment, in general, and of public employment specifically here in our land, in Basque. We have a huge challenge ahead of us, which is to take measures, first to solve, I insist, this problem, which is almost a surgery that needs to be solved in the short term, in order to put an end to this situation. And here we too have asked the Government, and we have said this many times in committee, you too know, Mr Hernández, that I believe it is important to analyse the situations or causes for which we have come to this situation, so that this does not happen again. There are very varied causes, and here we also sometimes have even diversity of opinions on some points, but man, I think it is important to make a good diagnosis of the situation, especially so that this does not happen again. Because here we run the risk that now we come, more or less this will be solved in the way that it eventually comes out, and that in a few years' time we will have the same situation again, this is what I believe is our obligation and our responsibility to avoid. That's why I say the challenge is important. The Law on Bodies and Scales has become practically the Law on Consolidation of Public Employment. I believe that we would have to go a little further there, and I also believe that among all groups we have to make an effort to think about what the model is, and that it is up to the government to take the initiative also of what this model is intended for public employment in general and in Euskadi. And it has to be, in my opinion, a public job that selects, by virtue of the principles of merit and capacity, and above all that includes a series of measures that allow such internal flexibility that can allow work by projects and the change of function from one function to another, as all modern administrations do, not to mention digitisation, not to mention another series of issues that are also of interest. We will continue to work in the Committee on Institutions and Governance to improve the proposals that have been put forward. We will introduce amendments of interest. I hope I can persuade, at least some amendments, the groups of the Government and the other groups who share the position to improve the administration which, I believe, deserves and deserves the citizens of Euskadi. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u49	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Rodriguez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u50	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. First of all, from this tribe, from the Basque People gathering, we want to communicate our solidarity to all the officials of the Administration who are on strike today. In fact, apart from our solidarity, we also want to thank all the unions that called strike, for defending public services. After all, the question of today's strike lies in the defence of public services. This change is not new, but in the time of pandemy the proclamation is much more necessary. It has been repeated several times that the pandemies have been exposed by necessity to a society which requires strong public services. Strong public services in health, education, care, etc. The strong public services of quality are indispensable, as I have said, in society, and even Mr. Hernandez, in order to answer to the inequality of the people and the necessities of every citizen. But we cannot forget, and that is what we remember today's strike, that a strong and strong public service must necessarily be founded on public employments of quality. But no. Unfortunately, that's not the public employment we've done, and it's not the public services we've got today. I won't give much information. The situation today's strike is so serious that the government itself accepts it. That is to say, the prerogative of public employment cannot be concealed. The internal courts of Europe have more than once confessed that the occasional provisionalness given in the Public Administration is quite unacceptable. It is a contract made on abuse or fraud, that is to say, a temporary contractation is used to make fixed workers. As I said before, not much data, but a photograph of the modern public services. As long as 20% of the European Union are public workers, only in community 12. In public administration, there are four temporary employees from ten of them. All over public administration, more than 2100,000 workers are working on a temporary contractation. EAE, EAE, 100,000 workers working for the public system in private companies. It is going to have a moment even in this element, my colleague Jon Hernández has also commented, about the intense consequences of the privatization of public services, of the destruction of public employment. Look, these are two payrolls. These are two payrolls. You won't see her from your seats. This is a payroll of the Foral Institute of Social Welfare, it is the payroll of a nursing assistant who receives 2000 euros on his payroll. This, on the other hand, is a payroll of a worker from a private residence, from a private residence. His payroll barely reaches 980 euros. 20 years ago, 20 years ago, he stopped opening public places in Araba's residences, and that's what it's been about? That attention be given through private residences. Every time a decision like this is made, every time a decision like this is made, to do the same job, two public jobs disappear like this, two public jobs like this, and that same job is assumed by a woman with this payroll. Those are the consequences... [[End of tape 25]] [[CHAPTER XXVI. THE beginning of the tape]] ... In order to do the same job, two public jobs disappear, two public jobs disappear, and the same job is taken over by a woman with this job. These are the consequences of the destruction of public employment. We said in our interpelation for three months ago, the Public Administration has done it instead of exemplaryly in front of private firms, which, as we have seen, is the model of what is not to be done. In the last general administration, the ultimate employment offer was made in 2000, in Special Education in 2015 and in 2001 in kitchens and washing machines. So, care is not in the workers, interno, and evenivorous workers have been denied the opportunity to stabilize their jobs. And since we have seen that the injured are also women in this matter, and therefore the solution to this problem must also be considered from the genus view. As we have already said in this Parliament to Mrs Garamendi, in our three-month inquiry into the conflict of interinity in public employment, it is clear that fraud and abuse in employment are not the exclusive assets of private enterprise, and it seems, even seems to share the same labour culture. At times we have heard from the Government to try to justify the abuse of temporary recruitment in the application of the replacement rates imposed by the Government of the Kingdom of Spain, but the replacement rates only worsened a pre-existing situation, they only aggravated a situation that came from behind. Therefore, the rate of temporaryity of public employment in the VAC is not only a consequence of the replacement rates decided in Madrid, it is also a consequence of other political decisions that have been made here. That is, they are the result of specific policies of this Government. Paraphrased the Caesar of Shakespeare, "the guilt, dear Brutus, is not in the stars, but in our vices." But we wanted to focus on the solutions of our speech today and the Podemos-IU. It's essential to face the biggest problem in public employment with conversation and negotiation. And therefore, in the correction of our middle course, as has been set before by Mr. Hernández, we plan three principal hooks. First key, a collective negotiation is the main instrument. The second key, the themes that must be put on the table, and that there is no veto in them. In order to avoid the extraordinary process of stabilization, the necessity of creating new employments, and the re-establishment of the present model, so that our present state may not be resumed; es decirs de no repeticion. And the third main key to ask the Spanish Government to respect the decisions we'll take within our limits. As I said, we have proposed collective bargaining with trade unions as the main instrument to address the measures needed to address one of the biggest problems in the Basque public sector, but for that to happen, political will and leadership are essential, and so far that is not the attitude and skill we have found on the part of this Government. We think that ending the precariousness of employment, as I said, requires talking without any kind of veto, without any kind of veto of at least four elements: one, temporary and temporary employment in abuse and fraud of law and putting in place extraordinary conciliation processes that take into account and serve to compensate for the precarious situations that have been enduring for long periods of time thousands of public employees. Secondly, temporary public employment, which, due to its maintenance over time and coverage of permanent tasks, should be classified as structural. We and we, among others, think of the thousands of workers in Osakidetza, who in the midst of the pandemic work on permanent needs through signing and a chain of successive temporary contracts. Thirdly, the public employment needed as a result of the review of ratios and workload, and fourthly, a generational relief plan to ensure the transfer of accumulated experience and encourage pre-retirement. As I have said to date, we have not found political will in this regard by the Government, and the strike also responds to the absence of that political will and directly calls on this Government. Finally, there is one issue that has already emerged in the debate, and we also do not know what the Government's decision is in the light of the recent ruling of the Constitutional Court that a provision of the Police Act, very similar to that contained in the Bodies and Scales Act, intended to address the consolidation of public employment, has been declared unconstitutional. That is why, despite this setback, we must not be forced to give up on the commitment to strong public services, to strong public services based on quality employment and designed to meet our reality and needs in our society, demanding that the Spanish Government respect our area of decision, all of this as reflected in the agreement signed with the comrades of Elkarrekin Podemos-IU and that we submit to this House for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u51	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Galástegui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u52	Eskerrik asko, president. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Guztioi. Well, they say that the occasion is painted bald, it is not your case, Mr Hernández, but they also say that chance does not exist, and of course, what is not random, in no way, is that we are here today because discussing this motion, which is indeed very interesting and brings us your Elkarrekin Podemos group. Moreover, I believe that I would affirm, without fear of error, that all those present here today were very clear, meridianly clear, that today, April 22... [[End 26 tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] Moreover, I believe that I would say, without fear of error, that all those present here today were very clear, meridianly clear that today, 22 April, we were going to be debating this motion, which comes from an inquiry which ended on 5 March, and which was, in turn, the same day that a large majority of our country's trade unions announced the call for a strike in the public sector, namely on 1 March. Chronology is what it has, the account of facts and why we are here today debating this. I am not saying, for the sake of clarity, that the subject is not important enough to bring it to debate. But, beyond that intrinsic importance, if we are talking about this today, that we have been talking about this for many days, in many sessions, over many appearances, and so on, in initiatives that are being debated in this Parliament, if we are talking about this today, it is because the proposer has, with all legitimacy, seen fit to take advantage of a very important issue to raise a motion that, apart from being necessary, is a motion, in this case, of opportunity and carried out, in our opinion, and by the way and at the dawn of the day we are living today. Indeed, I insist that this is legitimate. But, being such an important issue, it would not have been necessary to proceed to table or table a motion four plenary sessions before, for example, for us to study further, if necessary, what we have already been studying in this Parliament, with the coincident consideration of that importance of all groups. And I say that... I insist that, in fact, the core of the matter, Mr Hernández, I think we all agree. I also believe that the tone of the debate is being absolutely respectful, because we agree, in fact, at the heart of the matter, at the very heart of the matter, is an issue that not only concerns us with parliamentary groups, but has been the subject of foresight and is being the subject of foresight and action by the Government. And I'm going back to the tests. I would remind you that the government plan that you signed, signed, we signed, the government agreement that we signed by the groups that we support the government, at this time, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, for this XII. The Legislature expressly takes action in this regard. Specifically, it includes commitment 149, the first initiative of which determines the need to pass a Basque Public Employment Act, which will come to this Parliament according to the legislative timetable at the end of this year, which will reduce the high interim rates of the Basque public administration. This is done through processes of consolidation of interim staff and new OPEs, which effectively allow for the renewal and generational replacement of public staff. In addition, it also includes initiative number two, in which the agreement commits the Government to update and revise public service access systems to make them more transparent, agile, ensuring that the principles of equality, merit and capacity are respected. That is to say, what we are all asking for and what is contained in these amendments, which we will see how, with what result they are adopted. So it can be said, without lying, that the Government has the will and commitment to address these issues and is also doing so. On the other hand, I believe that, in fact, those who have spoken before me have said so too, we are now dealing with this Parliament, let us say, starting already the bulk of the parliamentary procedure after an intense phase of appearances, in which all and each of the trade unions have paraded through this Parliament, in addition to another series of, finally, professors, connoisseurs, experts in the public sector, administrative law. And, at the moment, as I said, we have this bill of bodies and scales which, as we all know, aims to organize and structure public employees, with the aim of achieving a more rational, effective and efficient administration, in order to meet the needs of Basque citizens, and which, in addition, provides for a series of mechanisms of consolidation and stabilization, with the fundamental objective of radically reducing and reducing high temporality. And, as I said, this project is now in our hands, ladies and gentlemen. And that means that all groups, each of the parliamentary groups in this House can make contributions, can make amendments, can make amendments that can lead to the adoption of a text that essentially reflects the content of this initiative that we are debating today and even of the amendments that we could have tabled to the text that you have tabled, Mr Hernández. What happens is that opportunities must also be seized. And it is true that, indeed, there are many times that there is much more visual, more theatrical, above all, in view of the gallery, presenting a series of necessary initiatives, I insist, necessary, I insist, I believe that this matter is agreed, at a time when, in reality, it is up to us too to do a job and an effort. Mr. Gordillo was speaking, and also Mr. Rodríguez was speaking, of the recent ruling of the Constitutional Court, in relation to the transitional provision of Law 7/2019, of the fifth amendment of the Police Act, comparing it with the additional provisions that were, say, the star nucleus of the Law on Bodies and Scales. And I think that comparison is not correct... [[27th end of tape]] [[CHAPTER XXVIII. THE beginning of the tape]] ...let's say, the star core of the Body and Scale Act. And I believe that this comparison is not correct, it is not correct, and it is an opinion that I refer from my parliamentary group and that, of course, can be counter-appreciated. But to provide for a similar pronouncement in relation to a law and a provision that is not exactly the same, and in addition to a law that is obviously in process, is a futurable that somehow gives me the feeling that what it does is to underestimate the work that we have in this Parliament, because this additional provision is the one that comes in the draft and we are here to try to modify or square things so that there is no such problem. I do not know whether Mr Rodriguez or Mr Gordillo was talking about the judgements handed down by staff in proceedings against various public administrations for abuse of temporary recruitment and fraud of law. There are many rulings in fact, in the Basque Country there are rulings that have given the plaintiffs the reason. There are a lot of judgments in Spanish courts, even in the Supreme Court, in short, we can talk about them, many of them are discordant and there are also judgments, as everyone knows, of the Court of Justice of the European Union. In this respect, on the one hand, we have the pronouncement of 19 March last year, which in fact recognises the abusive nature of the temporary nature of the public sector and which also states that the objective of the framework agreement must be met. But I would like to remind you of another much more recent judgment, which is a judgment of 11 February 2021 which has a positive effect, it seems that the legal consideration in this regard is not peaceful to be able to solve the problem of the stability of temporary public personnel, who are victims of abuse, through legislation, because it seems, I insist, that this judgment gives the legislator full freedom to adopt a law establishing the conversion of temporary public employees, victims of abuse, into fixed or equivalent public employees, or career employees, providing them with stability in employment, since, according to the judgment, if a Member State has not transposed the 1999 Directive and has not imposed an effective and dissuasive sanction to ensure compliance with this Community rule, the law allowing conversion will apply, even if that law is contrary to rules or provisions of a higher nature. That's where I leave it. In any case, the truth – with your permission, President, I ask you for a minute – is that we all agree here that the abuse of recruitment is an obvious, incontrovertible fact and also that it reaches percentages that are not consumable. That is why we must seek a definitive solution, which also has legal certainty in order to respond to the public employees who are ultimately suffering from this situation, always respecting those principles – which, I believe, we all agree – of equality, merit and capacity, and also the right of citizens to access to the public service. So right now we have in our hands the definitive elaboration of a law that, as Mr Gordillo has said, is the one that at the moment has in its hands tools to limit temporality...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u53	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u54	...and what we have to do, I end up president, is start that way. I invite you to go through it, we have limbs, there are limbs and, therefore, I hope that we will meet there. In any case, I would ask you to vote in favour of our amendment. You're very kind, President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u55	Thank you. Eubertarians, Mrs. Laruri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Legs. Chief physician. The chief of the department. Partners. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Tonight we look at the motion brought by Podemus about to descend the provisionalness of the Basque Public World, and take advantage of the day of the public strike called in the Basque sector, not just in the entire public sector. And while respecting the right to strike and the legitimate aspirations of all workers to continue to improve their working conditions, we understand that it is an inappropriate strike, precisely at a time when there has been a special public, political and social recognition of the work of public workers at a time of economic and health crisis in which this sector is not going any worse, even at a time when there has been slight improvements in their working conditions, even slight improvements in economic conditions. We share that there are obviously issues to improve, such as the issue we are dealing with today of the reduction of the temporality, but we understand that this strike meets other union interests and that, of course, it seems that it is not appropriate at a time when there are important initiatives underway and on the tables to reduce the temporality, at a time when we are closer to achieving consolidation processes. And as to the end of motion, it is, as we have often said, that we share the end; that is to say, the difficulty in the case of the public sector, it will be able to attain it, and perhaps to determine the difference, but we have always said that the end is shared. Today we have reached an agreement between the parliamentary groups that we are defending the Government with the Basque-Citizens People's Group. To thank Mr Gordillo for his provision in this regard. We believe that this is a positive agreement in which we call for further work to reduce this temporality, always within the existing legal framework and with particular reference to the principles of equality, merit and capacity. It has not been possible to reach a broader agreement. I understand we're not that far away. As I say, we share objective, however, the form may differ. We understand that we cannot be seen as starting from scratch, there is work done and there are plans, there are things on the table to continue working on it and, moreover, we understand that we cannot be conditioned from this Parliament to such an extreme... [[End of tape 28]] [[29. The beginning of the tape.]] ...and there are plans, there are things on the table to continue working on it and, moreover, we believe that collective bargaining, the tables, which will be developed at the negotiating tables cannot be conditioned from this Parliament to such an extreme. As I said, we share goals, I don't know if we differ, or the question is how. We and we are clear that it has to be within the legal framework, with legal certainty, without generating false expectations and in accordance with the principles of equality, merit and capacity, because outside the legal framework, we all have ideas, but they are not worth it. We have suffered, we have recently had, we have been reminded through, as a result of an appeal from the Government of Spain – to which, Mr Hernández, you are also a party –, what is the jurisdictional sphere – a ruling of the Constitutional Court that annuls a provision to consolidate the Basque Police Act, adopted by this Parliament in 2019 – a jurisdictional sphere that was defended by the Basque Government, but also by the groups that support this law in Parliament, including by the legal services of the House, when they have defended that law in the constitutional process. In any case, it seems that the legal framework is clear and, then, well, because also – and as members of that Government of Spain – we also ask you, Mr Hernández, to use your influence beyond what is beyond the Basque competence, you do what is in your hand as well. In any case, following the way, we understand that it must also be with an open dialogue, with negotiation with all parties – the Basque Government and the Basque Nationalist Party maintain open dialogue in all areas in which it is – with the will of agreements, in the political, social, technical, without unnecessary blockades, in an open way. We understand that they must be selective processes in which new incorporations are combined with the maintenance of knowledge within the organization, that is, through consolidation processes, without creating comparative grievances and taking great care of conflicts and comparative grievances, as I say, or conflicts of interest that can be given. Interinity is very heterogeneous and is due to different causes. It is not the same as an interim that is in a vacancy, an interim that is in a position in which it holds, the case is multiple, with which the solutions must also be adapted. The causes of having reached the high rates of interinity in the administration, in general, and in the Basque region, in particular, are multiple, internal, external, to no one escapes from the multiple retirements that have taken place in recent years, which, with the consequent need for new incorporations, the new needs of the organizations, pandemic, education, health education, social services, European funds, multiple needs that are emerging and that, of course, the administration does not stop hiring. We are talking about weakening public services. We don't agree at all. There is a maintenance of public services, there is a strengthening of public services, there are probably always issues to improve, but, of course, there is neither a plan nor a weakening of the public. And, as far as the outside world is concerned, as we say, the limitations that come from the competition field, especially the rates – or also the economic crises that we have suffered – the replenishment rates especially, it is true that they are flexible, but they still exist, and they have and continue to be important limits for selective processes. And they have been and assume, they have assumed, to have also reached these high rates of interinity. In any case, the Basque Government does not evade its tasks, it remains proactive, and within the framework it has at every moment, at that time, as it has important initiatives on the table. In this case, first of all, we can talk about the Law on Bodies and Scales which, well, in this case the Basque Government has already done its duties, processed it, approved the draft, processed it, even with the negotiation with the part of, that is, the trade union negotiation was in the process. Now that bill is in the Basque Parliament, it is in our hands, in those of the parliamentary groups. We'll see what everyone does. Mr. Rodriguez said what will the Government do with it as a result of the Constitutional Court's ruling? It is true that it is not a direct affectation, as Mrs Gallástegui says, but well, it seems that it will be affected. For it is not the Government, we are the parliamentary groups that will have to say, where we will see what each of us brings. First of all, we have seen that you have asked for an extension of the deadline for amendments, and we will see what you are doing. And as I say, we expect the maximum agreements in this respect. With regard to the model, further initiatives are also envisaged, such as the Public Employment Act – which will certainly be in place – in which the model itself is also more affected. But, in addition, important OPE proposals are already under way at all sectoral tables at the sectoral tables. And, well, there is a forecast, in addition to the processes that are already under way or those already carried out, there is a forecast of more than 10,000 places during the current legislature. We are clear, therefore – the Basque Government is in progress within the current scope, the Law on Bodies and Scales, OPE, negotiation, ordering the house, organization of staffs – but we are clear what the competence is and has reminded us, as the Constitutional Court said, with which, and has said clearly that "it corresponds to the basic rules of the State any modification that alters the current regime on consolidation". Therefore, it is the State, Mr Hernández, I insist you, also use your influence there in the Government of Spain to which you are a party. We, the Basque Government and the Basque Nationalist Party, as I said, in all areas are already calling for the amendment of the EBEP, but not a modification that will solve it in the future, but a modification that will solve the bag of interims that the Basque Government has at the moment. That is to say, let me also look at what is so far, because in this respect the current EBEP is obsolete; let it talk about consolidation and not just about stabilization. We have also asked for clarification of certain aspects arising from the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, such as whether it should automatically be moved from the temporary to fixed relationship or whether new legal figures of officials – which, we believe, are not – should arise, or what is the concrete effect of the so-called abuse of temporality that is not defined, what it consists of. And, on the other hand, the elimination of replacement rates. These are our claims to the State, to the Government of Spain. The Government of Spain has already assumed that there is a commitment. Let us hope that that commitment will really resolve these issues. In any case, as I say, the Basque Government is not going to wait sitting down... [[29th end of tape]] [[Start of tape 30]] ...has assumed that there is a commitment. Let us hope that that commitment will really resolve these issues. In any case, as I say, the Basque Government will not wait to sit down, it will continue with its tasks within the framework that is in force at every moment, with the current one, or, if modified, with which it is modified, it will express as much as possible. And we have to know what you're going to do. I insist, Mr Hernández, that I hope you will ask everywhere, with the same demand, for things and use their influence. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. The next round of the band that hasn't run any corrections, Mistto. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Well, today Mr Hernández brings us an important issue, there is no doubt, and also very sensitive. We shared the end but not the means, as it could not be otherwise. As is often the case when such issues are discussed, the proposers avoid in-depth analysis, because it would remove some of their reasoning. It happens in other administrations, but in the Basque public it stands out for its huge size. I remember a huge football player, from whom everyone wants to take advantage and who feeds uniquely and exclusively on vegan food. And we intend it to work. The Basque administration is enormous in size and the proposing party claims that it will grow even more, that all outsourced services will fall under the umbrella of the public, ever closer to Cuba or China. No one will be surprised if I tell him that Vox defends thinning the public administration, ending doubles like those that perfectly embody the outlaws, reducing the number of municipalities in favor of a better provision of services to the citizenry, also to reduce the huge amount of resources that are dedicated to financing expendable and scarcely useful administrations. This way we could start fighting temporality. And I also end with another huge problem that condemns the eventuality of thousands and thousands of workers in our region, the scarcity of public offers of employment and the imposition of conditions that prevent the access of people with magnificent qualifications to public administrations to stable employment in the public administration. In a context of absolute failure of this Government's euskaldunization policy in which huge amounts of money have been spent and spent for at least four decades, the parties in the Government insist on demanding unnecessary language profiles to be a good doctor, nurse, firefighter or administrative. Knowledge in Basque is more important than that of the function that is intended to be performed and, then, we put our hands to the head, because we have to cover a remarkable volume of places with interim staff as skilled as the civil servant, but that unfortunately does not have the PL2 of rigor. This is what we have to say about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u59	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing on the answers, Mr. Hernández, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u60	Indeed, Mrs Gallástegui, it is no accident that you bring this initiative along with a strike by the public workers. I understand that you will not believe that I intended to deceive you and make you believe that I bring you in as a coladillo. Indeed, of course. Of course, it is important for our group – coinciding with the approaches and demands made by the trade unions, representatives of and workers in the public service of public employment in Euskadi – to support them, and it seems to us that the best way to support them is to bring our political approach to debate in plenary of the Basque Parliament, also coinciding with the day of the strike on which they are claiming these issues. Is that the reason? Yeah. Does it make my initiative more visual? I am not very clear, because today everyone is talking about the covid law, not this, in the parliamentary sphere. And, of course, what I'm sure of is that it's no theatricalization. You know, I think you are aware that I do not like to play in Parliament, it is an important issue, it is a matter that we are very concerned about, it is a matter that we have been talking about in time for months and that it is really timely that today Parliament, and the representatives elected through the political elections, can discuss something that is on the street, with the representatives of those who have been elected in the trade union elections in public employment. That's why we think it's important. And if some of these issues we are going to discuss in the process of the Body and Scale Act, which you have raised, some other spokesman has raised. But that Law of Bodies and Scales, first, its objective and its final function, of course, is not to guarantee a quality public employment in Euskadi, but it is not even to solve the problem of high temporality – and that is what we have said and, I think, more than one group has shared it – that law, through those provisions, can help to reduce somewhat the problems of the very high rate of interinity that we have in Euskadi, or through the provision that could in any case pass the filters, and that is what we are going to talk about. But today we have brought an initiative and the transaction we have arrived at is an initiative that gathers a few things, which gathers a few things that are not going to be resolved with that Law of Bodies and Scales. With the Public Employment Act we've been seeing how the Public Employment Act is coming along, I don't know how many legislatures, I certainly wasn't here, it's the second one I'm here, and the Public Employment Act is one of the first things I found, by the public service unions when I came into this Parliament in the previous legislature, and what they were telling us is, then, that I don't know if it's ever going to happen. Well, you're gonna bring her in, now you have absolute majority. We'll see and there we'll be of course... [[End of tape 30]] [[31st beginning of tape]] ... In the previous legislature, and what they were saying to us is, "Well, I don't know if it's ever going to happen." Good. You're going to bring her. They now have an absolute majority. We'll see... And there we will, of course, be in that debate. But what draws my attention most is that, well, it looks like we're all more or less agreed, we agree. I've made a diagnosis. I understand you don't share it. I don't need to be discussed either. But from that diagnosis that we make, and that I believe that Mr Rodríguez has shared, about the model, about the origin of the model, is where the initiatives that we put on the table start. From that diagnosis. And a fundamental part of that diagnosis because to which no reference has been made is that it has not come by chance, that beyond the enumeration of reasons that have led us to this situation, that Mrs Larrauri has made a enumeration of many of them, behind them, behind them, in our opinion, there is a political motivation, there is a model, there is a political model. We believe that this diagnosis is also important to do so. Because it was Mr. Gordillo I think he said, "It's important to analyze the causes." And then it seemed like we agreed. I've analyzed the causes. I am sure you do not agree with the origin of the causes that I have raised. Now, if we're going to agree on the solutions, I have no problem. But one of the issues we raise is that we negotiate with the trade unions. Mrs Larrauri said: "The Basque Government maintains dialogue". His initiative does not say that he continues to maintain dialogue. And one of the things we always hear from the unions is, "Yes, they talk, they call us, sometimes they call us, when we call them a lot they call us, sometimes we sit down, but what we ask is to negotiate, that is not to negotiate." That's what the unions tell us. And that is what we ask of them in this initiative and with specific issues. And one last reference. Mrs Larrauri asks us to use our influence in Spain, above all, for one of the issues: modification of the EBEP, I understand, replacement rates. Of course, there they will find us and of course we will. And we've always been doing it. But a few years ago I brought an initiative to this Parliament for this Parliament to reject the General Budgets of the State promoted by the People's Party. And one of the things I was saying was that there were included those replacement rates, the toughest, the ones that pushed Montoro, also conditioned to other issues. And your group took their hands to the head because it said that it was bringing here a debate from Spain and that it was doing so to harm the PNV, because you were supporting those budgets. What I was saying to them was, I was like, "No. It's just that when you talk about the Basque agenda you forget that... you're supporting that Basque agenda." And with this I just want to tell you that, of course, if we're going to push in that direction, we'll meet. But we have doubts, especially because the government, this government, where you have been...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u61	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u62	Yeah. I'm done, Madam President. You've been ahead of him most of the time. We think that it imposed a concrete model, a concrete model that we question, which has resulted in this very high temporality, which in Euskadi is greater than elsewhere, but also that model of outsourcing, which is another way of harming employment and public services.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u63	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Euscalal Group Popular-Ciudadnos... He mustn't speak. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Rodriguez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u64	Thank you, Mrs. President. Four notes. Three, four notes. The first, a complaint about the debate. I believe that it is almost within the reasonable field that when public employees strike and stand outside Parliament, this Parliament is debating their demands. Second element, the inopportunity of the strike. The strike for this government is always inopportune. Always. In any case, in any context, it is inappropriate. You will be able to explain to us at once when you consider yourself, in what cases you consider a strike to be timely. On the return to replacement rates as the explanatory element of the precarious situation we live in. It is true, it is true, that the replacement rates break down, but it is always a pre-existing situation. Because in analyzing the causes, which I often hear from them, I listen to the government groups, and this seems like the Chronicles of Narnia. About the dialogue. Good. The dialogue is defined according to the... in its first meaning, according to the Royal Academy of Spanish Language, as the talk between two people, two or more people, who alternately manifest their ideas or affections. The problem is that you have skipped that first sense and gone to the second sense of dialogue, which says: "literary work, in prose or in verse, in which a talk or controversy between two people is faked." If you pretend, I insist. "Plot or controversy between two or more people." Man, it's normal for us to ask for more clarity about what they intend to do, because they have absolute majority. That you can't go up here and say, "We don't know what's going to happen in today's vote." "We don't know what will happen to the Law of Bodies and Scales." I thought this was going to end with Raphael singing: "What's going to happen? What mystery will there be." And, well, Your Honor, I'll use two minutes to distract you from the discussion on this point. The time has come to say goodbye, because at the end of this speech you will not have two suspensive points. After nearly three years of fighting, a few weeks ago, to save my research, I got a scholarship from the Basque Country University. Unfortunately, it's incompatible with continuing to be a member of the legislature. If we'd been singing Gardel, we'd say, "Oh, it wasn't twenty years," it's even less than two years. I've never liked greetings, what to say at a time like this. It is almost always someone who expresses one's feelings better than one's own. In my case, I'm going to use Robe Initia's words today. "Para hacerle... [[31st end of tape]] [[Start of tape 32]] ...adriezten says. Nire kasuan, gaur, Roberto Iniestaren hitzak eabiliko ditut: "To make the world better and to fly I need time, only time. Of the time lost in lost causes I have never repented or been defeated, tired or forbidden. Maybe it'll do you good, maybe it'll row against the current. Wanting to make no mistake about anything, by the way, I failed some play, and maybe I missed you, I don't regret, maybe, anything." I've reached the final point of the finals. My companions, who sit here and who from discretion have accompanied me in the day to day, mila esker, no one in better company. All of you, good night and good luck.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u65	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez, and good luck in your new career. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Galástegui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u66	Thank you, President, good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I'm so glad I agreed with you, I just found a fact; that is, I didn't have a reading, let's say, different. What I do know is that if you put forward a specific motion of temporality in which you could have done it before, I take it that you are doing so for the strike, you have not made a motion in relation to the support of the parliamentary group Elkarrekin We can ask the rest of the House to make specific support for the sector on strike, but in any case, what I am telling you is simply that it was a comment on this issue. And indeed, making a specific motion on strike day in relation to a problem that is being dealt with and discussed, as it may have a part of theatricality or not. I believe that it is, and that is why I have moved it, but that is another matter. What I want to do is to enter into some question that you have made about the need to make an assessment of why we have come here, because indeed for many reasons, and one of the main ones is also because of the lack of public offers of employment, which is what is being worked on and what has been agreed on, what has been agreed on in a government agreement that has been signed, as I say, and which gives rise to two groups in this Parliament, the Basque Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party at this time, if you have the Government with a large majority to which the Group of the European People's Party has now acceded. There were other issues to which you have made reference that I would like to point out. One thing to say, simply, Mr Hernandez, that I think you are quite right and I agree with you that if we do an analysis of the causes, the result of that analysis is probably different for each of the groups, but the truth is that there is a situation in fact that is what it is and in which we all agree and to which we are looking to put a solution. Well, as far as the subject of that basic regulation is concerned, it is, in some way, the one that surrounds the situation that may be taking place at this time. No, I don't share that, I share... I believe that, in fact, the Basque Government has many mechanisms, in Euskadi we have many mechanisms to be able to tackle temporality indices. It is a question of will, it is a question of approaches, and it is also a question of being able to do so, and in fact, I believe that Mrs Larrauri has already said that, in fact, when she intervened here in the first round, but what I have to say, for example, is that... I do not know if you will know, I understand that yes, because all the groups in this House have representation in the Congress of Deputies and will know, for example, that in October 2020 a parliamentary initiative was proposed from the Socialist Group in the Committee on Public Administration in order, in fact, to make an amendment to the Basque Statute of Public Employment, because as you know, although this law, which was adopted in 2007, was an important achievement of further constitutional development to modernize public administrations and end the regulatory dispersion, and in addition, it also fixed a model of public service by sealing a framework, because this says this Law on Labour Relations for Collective Negotiation. When that royal decree is then made, which, let us say, sets out the consolidated text of what is the regulation in that sense, a lot of issues are incorporated that have been adopted over this time. But it is true that after six years because it is time to reform many things, and that is why also on December, in particular, I think it is the last day of the session, of the last session of 2020, I think that on December 30, there is a broad majority agreement in which there is certainly no People's Party, there is no Bildu in relation to the need to... But I am not sure, eh?, of... But what I do know is... I mean, they do not appear as voters in favour of this initiative in which it is raised throughout the rest of the very broad parliamentary arc, by the way, discounting the People's Party, that a reform be carried out, a modification of the Basic Staff Statute, with the necessary consensus, taking into account the central and trade union representation and with the main objective of diminishing and constraining and progressively eliminating, where appropriate, the temporality in the public sector. So here we are, I understand that in addition to this Parliament when these laws arrive, which will also have, I am referring to the Public Employment Act, I am sure that with these limbs we will be able to reach a very broad agreement, or at least enough, to be able to improve things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Larauri, your word is yours. [[End of tape 32]] [[XXII. The beginning of the tape.]] ...thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Galástegui. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Larauri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u69	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Mr Rodriguez, I, the statements, the comment on the strike, of course, I did not do as a spokesman for the government, was as a parliamentary group. The Government was never in a position to comment as a parliamentary group. In relation to bodies and scales, the Law of Bodies and Scales, what will happen, what mystery will there be. Well, for now, you tell me, you have asked for an extension at the amendment stage and I don't know if the mystery will be that you haven't had time to look at it yet. I hope that you will be given time and work on it and that you will really make good proposals. And as for the demand, here you are very demanding, you are very demanding asking the Basque Government to do its duties. Do not worry, that the Basque Government is in it, but I also ask you to be so demanding in all the forums, here and in Madrid; because for the moment we do not see them so demanding in Madrid and we see them quite amen, amen, which is what it has to be. But, well, let them be, above all be quite consistent and consistent. And personally I wish you the best in your new walk. And Mr Hernández, well, as far as externalisation is concerned, which I have not been able to comment on before, of course, there is no plan here. This is the eternal ghost of a plan to weaken the public, that doesn't exist. There is, as I said, a strengthening of public services. It is being hired continuously, the services are expanding. That does not mean that at certain times there is public-private collaboration. But, of course, there is respect for labour rights. And when we talk about reversal, the existing agreements, the agreements signed with the trade union side do not talk about reversal, they talk about the future. So, well, let us also try from here, from Parliament to amend those trade union agreements. They make the comparison of the public and private sectors eternally, because, precisely at the moment, this comparison is quite inappropriate, because, unfortunately, the private sector is having a very bad time and, indeed, the temporality in the private sector has fallen in part, and, as I say, unfortunately, because of that ERE and those ERTE that does not suffer from the public sector. And, well, we don't start from scratch, I insist, we don't start from scratch. The Basque Government is not going to evade its responsibility, its tasks, within the current framework it will continue with the OPEs, with the draft Law on Bodies and Scales. But, well, if there is a possibility of an improvement of the legal framework, for there it will be and will make the most of it, I insist. And have no doubt that we advocate the elimination of replacement rates, because it is public and notorious. That is what we have shown in all the places in which we have participated. And that's it. Let us hope that, among all of us, in the future, we can reach agreements to improve the situation as far as we are concerned, the parliamentary sphere to improve the situation of public employment. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Larauri. Mist must not speak. So, when the discussion is over, we'll vote together Podemos-Nozzer Antherz and the middle-direction that the EH Collectors have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 43; votes given, 74; on the side 26; on the contrary, 48; on the contrary, Abstations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u71	So it's not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the middle-term corrections signed by the Basque Socialists and Eucabertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 44; 75; the supporters, 47; the opponents of the enemy, 27; abstaining, 1; white, 0.1,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u72	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Five point in theme list: "Mortion, introduced by the members of the Cianova Alonso EH Collectors, an industrial trader for the fleet of La Naval, and for the future use of its domains. Discipline and final resolution. This is the turn of the proposed team, Mr. Casanova, representing the EH Collect group, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u73	Good morning, everyone. And, well, whatever it was, a little phrase to say to our teammate and still say hello to our friend Ander Rodrigue. We wish them the best in the name of all the teams, and bring them back to the band a dinosaur bone. He'll understand that. It is true to-day, I thought, that at this point we should have had a very salty day, and it is true, thanks to fortune and the agreement obtained, that the sweetness has triumphed, and that at present it will be a bad one, as far as I am concerned, about my interference and my motive. I think we've made a step forward, and that's enough to cheer you up. Yet sad elements remain there too, and I will reserve a space for criticism in my discourse. But, no doubt, the most important item today will not be the look we're going to turn back, but we'll go on. I thought it would be bitter to tell you the truth. I thought it would be bitter to focus on what happened alone when I asked for responsibilities somehow. But, as I said, we'll also have a chance to look forward to it, but that won't take it away... [[End 33 tape]] [[Start of tape 34]] ...to ask for responsibilities in a way. But, as I have said, we'll also have a chance to look forward to it, but that won't take away the moment of some kind of balance. If it is now sad, in part, in this legislature, for the last time, I suppose, we shall discuss it round La Naval shipola, for La Naval has disappeared from the fleet. And we're writing some kind of epilogue today. It is sad that the history of a century has ended, and after this great history, after the disappearance of this chapter of the Euscal fleet's history, thousands of small stories will disappear, especially the thousands of workers who have passed it, and have been thrown out in the last stage, hundreds of workers and hundreds of other sub-contradictions and environmental corporations. Sad of the horrelako story Izan due ontziola desagertzea. Eta sad da berarekin beat, enpleguekin beat ere desagertzen sayla ezagupenak. Desagertzen dira tecnologiak, desagertzen dela ére wavere kultural eta industrial immateriala. The bath was not punctuated by badaukala gaurko saioa akordio on bat lortzeko. It's the burura that's owed him hours... A phrase that is, perhaps, a little noodle, that is more typical of calendars with clowns or with the sun rising in the clouds, but that, well, it does not stop having its grace and that says that "if you cry, because the sun sets, the tears will not let you see the stars". And it is true that at the moment the tears and sadness caused by the disappearance of a historic shipyard, such as that of La Naval, must not be an obstacle to act calmly and to look to the future, thinking more from the responsibility to provide solutions than to collect invoices. Let us hope that La Naval's end may be supposed, and we come to it, that the beginning of other industrial projects may be the end of La Naval. And if the sun has set on one side, perhaps another sun, a new sun, a new industrial sun, can also come out on the left side. I shall mention it, and I believe, as has been said before, that we may have been discussing here lately about La Naval, there must be a number of elements made in the process of the end. And we do not do so much as we do after the agreement we have obtained from hunger for revenge, but because I think in politics that we ought to consider the bad practices as they are digested, preserved, and insisted on, especially not to repeat them. La Naval, we think, closed up for two reasons. On the one hand, because the management was poor, bad, and improper. La Naval ship closed down, or got into a crisis when he had a job, when he had a lot of work to do. It is true that the complex sector is the manufacturing craft, and the manufacturing knowledge must be added to it that it has a very complex rule, and that it requires the management of a reality sufficiently complex from the financial point of view. But we have to say that it's sad to have a company disappear because it doesn't have a job, but it's even sader when he has a job, because he doesn't know how to handle those jobs. It is sad that a company dies of starvation, as we have said on other occasions, but it is sadder that the company dies of indigestion. He had a portfolio of orders, he was working and he was guaranteed, in the medium and long term too, that they would go to new orders. It must be remarked that there are responsibilities and that the management of the company has had very negative consequences. But, from the other side and from a political point of view, we must also insist, in our opinion, that all the papers of fun are in this affair. At a time of the many debates that we have had on this issue, especially in the last legislature, he blamed the Basque Government for its passivity and brought back a play from the theater of absurdity Waiting for Godot, and the Basque Government waiting and waiting for those who did not appear, in the end, has been a collaborator, with its passive attitude, of this unfortunate closure. The Basque Government did not rescue La Naval, nor did it nationalize La Naval, nor did it find Godot, that investor partner who should come to save her, nor did it build a public-private alliance, which could have given continuity to the shipyard's activity, nor did it buy the land at the bidding stage, which would have prevented us from being, to some extent, in the situation in which we are in. To save all chances, La Naval, after turning back to every opportunity, is the best thing to avoid. And we had to support it. There's no hope, at this moment, that we should have managed to close La Naval because the sector is okay. And in the last few weeks we have read in the press how the fleet, the eroscal fleet, is advancing, how the work is, how we must satisfy new sectors and needs from the ship's sector. And we think there was a camp for the fleet and the work too. New activities are also being announced in this circle for development of activity. There are different companies who have expressed their interest in the pursuit. And we think that it shows that it was quite helpful to keep up with La Naval as a company, because in the future there might be other industrial activities. But we think that in a non- traumatic way it could have arisen through La Naval's regeneration, which would have prevented, on the one hand, our present concerns as to the property of the earth, and this traumatic close, which, on the other hand, has been supposed by hundreds or thousands of workers. And right now, I want to talk about it, even in the interpelation... "Yes," I said. But now I want to repeat a message for the staff. And I want to extend a peace message. At times the attitude of the workers, in particular the recourse against dismissals, has been criticized, accusing them of being the ones who have impeded the earliest arrival of an investor, who could have given continuity to the activity of the shipyard. We believe that this is an excuse, a simple excuse, that does not agree with what happened or with the timetable of events, because there has been plenty of time to negotiate with the workers the withdrawal of that remedy, if there really was any interest on the part of some investor, and even, once the appeal was dismissed by the Supreme Court, to have submitted an offer on time before the last phase of the liquidation, through which the VGP company was made with the land. What we believe is that the companies concerned that were already there put or have put the excuse that there was a remedy in place, to wait for the last phase of liquidation, with the intention of buying at a balance price the yards. And it went wrong for them. It was a miscalculation, I think, of the companies and the Basque Government, waiting so long, because it seemed to me to be someone who did know how to value the enormous potential that these lands have and made a better offer. And that's how we're in the situation we're in now. A logistical company bought the Basque Country... [[End of tape 34]] [[Beginning of tape 35.]] ...that they have those lands and they've made a better offer. And that's how we're in the situation we're in now. A logistical company bought some of the best industrial lands in the Basque Country, near the river, near the port, near the airport, near the railway tracks, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., and so on. They knew how to appreciate it. They've been the fastest to make a good excuse, and now it's theirs. It's a logistical company, and its first answer or first offer was to introduce an offer or project in the logistical area. But, we believe that this logistical nature of the new firm is hampered, but it does not make it impossible to maintain industrial activity. We think that today the first chance is to maintain industrial activity, because the law says so, because the regulations of the city are so called, and I believe in this society, and to-day it will be reflected by an agreement, because the euscal society wants it, and because it requires these lands with industrial activity. Egia yes, gaur bitartekari bat badaukagu. Hobea izango zen industrial enterprisek zuzenean lurra erostea edo Jaurlaritzak berak erostea eta gero industrial enterprisein mesedetara jarri, bainsa bat aurreratu zaigu. Eta aurratu zaigun hori, ore, nolabait esateagatik, is the landlord of the place. But we understand that it is possible that if there are interesting offers from the industrial field, this landlord can arrive at a certain time, it can even give you the same to make stores, make logistics centers or rent to companies that want to develop an industrial activity, even in the latter sense can maximize their immersion. Because we all know that industrial enterprises, generally, if they go moderately well through their value-added production, can also generate greater benefits. So we have one job left. We have a job to do, collectively, and it's pushing in the right direction. Encourage industrial companies not to give up, to make their offers. Encourage the new landowner to be sensitive to this reality and, as he said, even more, bearing in mind that urban legality imposes uses associated with industry on the ground. Eta, norabid horretane, norabid horretane datorkigu gaur aurkeztu edo lortu, erdietsi dugun akordioa. Eta orain, akordio horren elementu nagusiak aletuko ditut. This legislature will require them to encourage all institutions and to assist them in establishing industrial activities. And as we repeat this, it is not only the result of some emotional thread with the industrial history of the Left, but we know that industry contributes substantially and quantum contributions to economy and industry, because it puts stronger economic grounds on it. We also know that there are some projects, it's public, and some of them have also been defined in the media. For example, AEM has presented a fairly decent project: He proposes to carry on with the ship's craft, he plans things associated with retractable power, he plans electrolytes, green hydrogen, and so on. We think it's a very neat project, we don't have any connection with that company. There's another company, Marina Meridanal, that would have been our intention, or we'd have wanted it to be as good or better project than this. We don't marry anyone, but we think that there are possibilities, and we need to push them, without forgetting that the sector has its own challenge connected with the fleet. That this sector has to be our own Eugetic transition, because it's one of the main gas generators of the greenhouse effect today, and that the ecological transition must be made of its own. And this may also be a chance, and even those new lands and new activity can proceed from that point to make future bets. We want industry there, we said. It's a really good place. It is always said in the world of immobilaries, that it is the position, position, and position which ought to be considered in the value of something or property. Well, the position here is very good, and even the size is very good. We shall therefore confirm the wager for industry, and we shall place what this Parliament stands for on the table, in order that this industry may be introduced into all the agents. But there are two other elements that are built in the EH Collectation proposition. And I believe that he has his own entity, and deserves to be observed to have the value of it observed by the sects which support the Government, and also by the consent of Podemos, and at least that the gates are opened to carry on these designs. The first is connected with the industrial domain. Yesterday, in this legislature, we tested the measures to protect the Labe of Altos Hornos. Today, even in the inheritance, I believe another important contribution will be made. I know, I know you were in the back of that fun, but today-well, there wasn't anything particular on the table. And to-day nothing was decided. Today, the legislature will rule or demand government to protect the people and protect the other industrial domains, and to maintain their protection. Hence we believe that it is important, as we have insisted on, that the maintenance of our industrial domain is not only an instrument of memory. It is not merely an activity that looks back, but, in the South, it must project so necessary industrial a culture to the future, and we must pass through the industrial community to be a society which preserves its industrial character and projects it even to the future. Queremos más industry para Marge Ireuerda, que supone más industry para Euscal village. Y, partendo de nuestra industrial memory, debemos ser capacies tamen de rectuperar e intensificior el nivel de industriallicion de stateo comarca. And this is linked to the last of the questions – I see that I am running out of time – in a telegraphic way, but also, as it is usually said, not because it is the last is the least important. We will approve an inventory of industrial soils in the Left Margin, defining the characteristics of these soils, of these soils, and allowing their development and use for the attraction of industrial investments. Therefore, it is not simply a matter of recounting what we have, it is a matter of activating a development dynamic that will enable us to attract better investments to the Left Margin. Because in recent times we are talking about European funds, about (...), about energy transition, about the electric car..., about a lot of issues that have their derivatives in the industrial sphere. And without letting many of these issues require us to raise a little bit the foot of the accelerator of production and consumption, it is also evident that many of these challenges have their industrial derivative and that it is important to have soils available in a region that needs such investments, such as the Left Margin, in order to accommodate... [[End of tape 35.]] [[Start of tape 36]] ... that many of these challenges have their industrial derivative and that it is important to have soils available in a region that needs such investments, such as the Left Margin, in order to accommodate industrial projects that align with this issue. And one last, and very brief, question. We believe that this is a Win-Win agreement, which wins both the proposing group and the groups that have supported it, and especially those that support the Government, but which, above all, wins the whole of society. I do not think that the government is losing at all today, on the contrary, I think it is getting stronger, and I do not think that the government has a millimeter or a gram less absolute majority than it had yesterday, on the contrary, I think it has been able to take advantage and be generous, to take advantage of the suggestions of other groups, also to defend its approaches, to integrate everything into a proposal that, as I said, is a proposal in which we all win, but above all we win society. I simply thank Mr Arruabarrena for his fundamental role in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u74	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections together Podemos-Nozzer, Mr. Soso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u75	Egun on. Good morning to everyone and everyone. Indeed, as Mr Casanova said, the truth is that we are faced with a fact I do not know if to say unheard of, but yes, of course, quite surprising about the agreement that we are going to sign virtually all the political forces of this House, basically because it is going to be the only – and probably the last – possible agreement in relation to what has been an absolute disaster and a agony, that is, the closure of La Naval. She listened the other day on the radio to the journalist and writer Chari Rodríguez, a native of Laudio, talking about feeling about her region, which, according to her, had always been linked to the crisis by a generation in struggle, always defending her job, fighting for the sustainability, in short, of her valley, of her people. And the same could be said or replicated in so many other places in our country. And that of La Naval is a paradigmatic example of what has, of course, been the dismantling and lack of commitment of the Basque Government in this regard, for the defense of what it has to do with what at one time was something very characteristic of the economic development of our country, which was industry and which gradually, unfortunately – at least as far as the Basque Government's commitment in this regard is concerned – is becoming increasingly thinner. Of course, it is true that we have reason to welcome this agreement, but it is also true that, as has been said a few minutes ago, this is the end of the process and it would certainly have been much more beneficial to have reached a previous agreement, which would not have meant that 177 workers would have had to go on the street. A shipyard which three decades ago had 7,000 people working and which, to date, three years ago also had indirect added value in the region, that is, that in addition to the workers directly employed, this shipbuilding industry also exercised indirect work of growth and employability in the environment. And, unfortunately, I already said that this has been due to the lack of bet from the Basque Government on the rescue or capitalization of something as symbolic and as important as La Naval. On the other hand, elsewhere in our environment, such as the Netherlands, the Government was rescuing shipyards with a rescue of more than 400 million. The Scottish Government was also nationalizing a ferry manufacturer, and what about China, which has become the world's largest shipbuilder with the merger of two state-owned companies. There would have been formulas on the part of the Basque Government for not having reached this point, but the reality is that we are where we are. And, of course, we do believe that it is good news that – at least the feeling of all the parliamentary groups – marks the direction of what these soils can be, as it appears in the regulations besides which the soil qualifies, is directed to industrial activity, although it can no longer be the one that was the engine of the area so far. We also believe that the agreements that have been adopted in relation to the heritage inventory are important, because we believe that the one that was presented by the Vice-Counselor of Culture was frankly insufficient for us, and I will not focus much more on this issue – because it would actually be doing some nostalgia exercise – but we do believe that the material and immaterial value of certain metal structures are very relevant to generate also an added value in economic terms to what was La Naval. We have – and it does not appear in the inventory carried out to date by the Basque Government – the oldest metal structure that is preserved in the State and one, or the only, rather, ship of the whole State entirely made up of a metal structure, and this element was neither included nor included in the initial proposal for protection of the Department of Culture. So it seems to us essential that in this case a new wealth inventory be reviewed and redefined, and that at least use be made of what is left of La Naval. We believe that, in this regard, the agreement adopted is also an assumption by the groups that support the government of the need for industrial land in this country, and also of the need to review what we believe to be so far... [[End of tape 36]] [[CHAPTER XXXVII. THE beginning of the tape]] ... the government of the need for industrial land in this country, and also the need to review what we believe so far to be an absolutely failed strategy in terms of industrial policy and economic development policy which, as we have already mentioned more than once in this House, is basically based on generating an ecosystem, basically a runway for landing in fiscal terms to large investment funds that have nothing to root out and have no interest in the living conditions of citizens. And, beyond that, the generation of startups that lead virtually to nothing, because what is really important for them to make sense and move forward, which has to do with the generation of quality research and development led from the public, in this case is not given. In other words, the ecosystem that is intended to generate in industrial and economic development terms is part of an erroneous design, which does not create the necessary conditions for the transformation and conversion of what until a few decades ago was an industrial sector closely linked to metallurgy and steel. It is true that there have been sectors that have had to close due to lack of demand but, in this case, and it has already been said, the Naval had a perfect capacity to maintain production because there was demand. And the fact that we did not want to maintain this activity, we do not know exactly what it corresponds to, beyond the resignation of the Basque Government to continue to boost industrial activity. We are concerned, yes, that the conditionality of the first point with respect to industrial activity is hilarious to what counsel Arantxa Tapia has ever said about what industrial activity means to her. That, of course, means that at the end of this mandate we expect to reach 40%, we raise industrial activity in this country to 40%, but of course, always saying that this increase to 40% has to do with all activities related to industrial activity. It doesn't just define exactly what it is. So, we have doubts as to what might end up being the concrete activity that is installed on those soils. In any case, I say, it seems to us good news that we have finally had the opportunity to join the different political forces of this House or most of them in adopting a common agreement on this issue even if, I say, it is late. And we hope that, in view of the processes of deindustrialisation and progressive closure of certain companies and of ERE processes that are taking place in certain companies in our country, the agreements will not take place only in the last wake of the agony, but will take place before the time when nothing remains to be done. Beyond talking about what can come in the future and where we can direct the soils and the production of the inventories of the machinery, we believe that as far as Tubacex and other companies are concerned, that they are currently going through it frankly wrong, that the Basque Government will, of course, take leadership in this regard. And that also the parliamentary groups that support the Government, in these cases too, lend themselves to agreement and collaboration. And, in any case, it does value the ability to agree, which is often said about the parliamentary opposition groups, which we are of the "no for no". That is not the case, as long as there is also a certain will on the part of the parliamentary groups which support the Government in moving that, in general, they are moving very little to reach agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u76	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Mr. Gil, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, we think that in order to properly approach this matter, we should frame it within the overall situation of the Left Margin. The Left Margin, as I believe we all share, is one of the regions most punished for unemployment and lack of opportunities. Reflecting on this are some data that we have been able to collect from Lanbide referring to Sestao as, for example... I say to Sestao, that it can serve as a perfectly extensible analysis to a multitude of municipalities in the region, right? The unemployment rate of Sestao is 19,5 % as you know; 61 % higher than the average of Euskadi, and is the second municipality of Euskadi with the highest unemployment rate; by the way, the first is Oyon. In 81, Sestao had 39,000 inhabitants, almost 40,000. In 2018, its population has decreased by 32%, to 27,000. The per capita GDP of Sestao in 2018 is equivalent to 57 % of Euskadi. Since 2008, which reached the point of greatest convergence, inequality has done nothing but grow. But in 1996, the industry accounted for 40% of the gross value added in Sestao, and now it does not reach 17%. What I'm describing here is just a picture of the current situation, which shows how the Left Margen has been a forgotten and mistreated region by the Basque Administration. Not only since the closure of the Naval was announced, it has been abused since the 1980s. When a municipality loses one in three inhabitants in the last decades, it is mainly due to the abandonment of public administration responsibilities, as young people have to leave to seek opportunities outside. I do not mean that reactivation or reindustrialisation plans have not been put in place, because that would not be true. What I can say, what I can say is that the plans that the Government has implemented have not been effective; they have not worked. I understand that Bildu's initial motion was not, or was fundamentally intended to wear down the Government, but it seemed to me that he had few arguments or that those he had were somewhat weak and lacking in any realistic proposal to promote the industrialization of the region. There were somewhat generic accusations of what could have been done, suspicions about the new bidder, which we remember, by the way, that in the middle of the biggest pandemic of the century... [[End of tape 37]] [[Start of tape 38.]] ... somewhat generic accusations of what could have been done, suspicions about the new successful tenderer, that we remember, by the way, that in the middle of the biggest pandemic of the century invests 36 million euros in one of the most disadvantaged regions of Euskadi, and instead of seeing the opportunity, what is done is to seek to perpetuate the problems without providing any solution. Do you know when was the last time a private company invested 36 million euros in Sestao? As I said, they are in their right to do this, but to attack the few investors we have, we do not believe it is to defend Euskadi. The compromise that you have reached does not seem wrong to us and I have to tell you that we are not therefore going to vote against it, but it does seem very inadequate to us and it does not seem to us to bring great things. That is why our amendment includes a much more ambitious proposal, and that is why we maintain it. Of course we would have liked it, of course we would have liked the economic activity of La Naval to continue, of course we would have liked everyone, I think, that this topic would have been managed in a different way, but when a company of the size of La Naval ends up in competition of creditors it is a loss, it is a failure for all of Euskadi, without any doubt. Of course, I also do not know how to interpret well any of the paragraphs that appeared in Bildu's initial proposal. Was the Basque Government being asked to intervene, in any way, in a judicial liquidation process? I hope I'm the one who misunderstood that idea, because that would be serious, illegal and a little undemocratic. So let's focus on presenting our proposal. Our proposal, which, as I say to you, is aimed above all at constructive proposals to the Left Margin. First, modernization and adaptation of the network of industrial polygons, which we believe is one of the largest assets of the Left Margin. In 2020, as you know, there was an item with EUR 2 million, which we call the Renovation Plan Industrial Policies, but in these last budgets, that item, for some reason, has been reduced by 75%. We believe that we need to invest more in the industrial polygons that we have, they are infrastructures that if we provide them with the services that companies need to carry out their activity, they can be an important factor of competitiveness and help us to increase the weight of the industry. We have already tabled this initiative as an amendment to the Budgets of 2021 and it was rejected by the Government, like all the others of the entire opposition. The second proposal is a training and retraining plan to bring employment levels into line with those in the rest of the territory. Because we think that we must go to the origin of the matter, to the origin of the problems, to the origin of the crises. The shipyards had a network of suppliers in the area of more than 500 companies, and it is unclear to what extent they will be able to continue to provide services to the successful tenderer. The same concern has to do with the induced and indirect jobs, and that is precisely why we are calling in our amendment for the whole of a specific training and employment plan for the Left Margin, with a special impact on the unemployed over 45 years of age, with whom, by the way, we have a kind of stigma, we think that they have difficulties for their age to adapt or to adjust to new technologies, to new ones... and I think it is a prejudice that we should be thinking about getting rid of. Training, training and training, I will hear it repeated in this rostrum many times, because I am an almost professional advocate of continuing training in the labour market. We think that if we invest in our most important asset, which is people, competitiveness is multiplying, and this as a public administration, it has also not been done particularly well. Third concrete proposal, a real shock plan for the Left Margin that encourages industrial investments, which defines objectives, but measurable objectives in order to be able to follow up and ensure their compliance. In 2018 a shock plan was already implemented, but it is clear, in view of the current situation, that its performance was not very relevant. That is why I want to focus on putting concrete objectives, measurable objectives, indicators that will guarantee or ensure that they will be met. We need a new shock plan for the Left Margin for the 21-24 period, which encourages the implementation of industrial investments in the region. It is necessary to help the businesses that depended on La Naval in the region, which is also one of the most affected by unemployment in Euskadi. And fourth proposal, to combat the depopulation, depopulation, forgiveness, of the region through actions for the public promotion of social housing for rent aimed at young people who want to emancipate themselves and do not have to go to other municipalities to do so. Finally, many other initiatives can be implemented, and in that sense, from here I'm holding hands with the councilwoman and the rest of the political formations so that if you wish we can feel like defining a road map for the Left Margin. To speak today of the shipyard of La Naval is fine, but we must not forget that the problem is not only this shipyard, which is in an area with much problem. We know that... well, we can agree if you want to, and listening to the question on this matter that took place on March 26 and the motion that we are now debating, I have a concern. From our point of view, the Government has done and continues to do many things wrong, and as you know, we are the first to denounce it, but in this case we believe that a private business project fails is not the fault of the Basque Government and neither do we have difficulty in saying it loud and clear, but the Basque Government is responsible for offering alternatives to the region. Plans for employment, reindustrialisation and support for the implementation of industrial projects, being a particularly disadvantaged region and not doing so. And this is what we think it has to change. The initiatives proposed by our group are therefore aimed at achieving this economic convergence of the region with the rest of Euskadi. That's our firm commitment to the Left Margin. Finally, as I say, there are many that can be put on the table. From our group we are prepared to work and row in favour, but if the aim they seek is to promote the anger and to be more problematic than solution, they will have us in front of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u78	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u79	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, good morning to all. I join Mr. Casanova, perhaps today at the end of a chapter, because we are face to end. I don't know if looking back is good. In one way, yes, isn't it? The process of taking what is well done to be a pattern, and doing badly not to repeat it again. Bugs... [[End of tape 38.]] [[Start of tape 39]] ...from one, right? The process of taking what is well done to be a pattern, and doing badly not to repeat it again. There have been some mistakes, logically, yes. Each of you will know what they have been, and what number of them have been, and what they have done. But I think it's time to look forward to it. and we have a good chance to look forward to it. The future is there, coming back. We have to push him, and in front of him we express our commitment here today. Today's agreement is essential. And I think today's agreement also means its importance, and I believe it's strictly important. We've all made one or almost all of us together. Most of us have acquired a very important majority, and we have all agreed to develop the future, and to work on it. We have to develop the future. We have to take care of the power industry. We've got to encourage the English, and today we've committed an engagement to maintain this industrial character on the left. That's the challenge today to guarantee today's tomorrow. The shipyard La Naval is undoubtedly a symbol of Basque industrial activity. For a lot of years, the ships passed under the bridge hanging way from the open sea. Ships, boats that have been an industrial emblem of Euskadi. A whole sign of identity which, unfortunately, today is already part of the past. But like all the bad things, we must try to draw virtue and try to reverse a situation that, of course, the Basque socialists worry us, beyond the symbolic, the nostalgic or what, in the past, could represent an emblem of the Basque industry. It opens a new time, a new opportunity is knocking at the door, an opportunity to boost economic activity, to revitalize the Left Margin, and generate employment in an area especially punished when the times come convulsed in industrial terms. We Socialists do not advocate de-industrialisation, but rather that we encourage bets that re-start an activity, precisely industrial activity, which has been one of the economic teachings of this margin. According to the urban regulations, at least 51% of the land in La Naval must have industrial activity. That must be the guarantee that must prevail for the future maintenance of industrial activity. In this regard, and with regard to the participation of the Basque Socialists in all the institutions, from the municipalities, the Government, some of them leading it, as is the case with Portugalete, both in the opposition and in the coalition governments, both in the foreign parliament and in the Basque Government, we maintain our commitment to ensure that the rules prevail. The Basque socialists closed the door to any speculative movement. In this sense, we have to be guarantors and enforce industrial land cataloguing. That is the endorsement for economic activity to have an open door to the future. The compromise amendment that we have signed, the different groups that have joined it, I think it is great news. I think it is a great news, beyond what may be the fact that an immense majority of this Parliament has reached an agreement. Firstly, because we believe that an agreement on this subject lays the foundation for what most people want about the future of the land in La Naval, after the completion of a process in which different possibilities could have been opened up. It is a common point, which allows us to look in the same direction in different aspects, all of which are important, as reflected in this compromise amendment, in order to ensure a good future for these areas. Firstly, in the strictly institutional sphere. We believe that all institutions must facilitate and promote, in the end, always to the extent possible and in accordance with their competences, formulas that maximize the generation of employment and industrial added value, in line with the urban classification of the land of La Naval. Secondly, because this is part of the industrial history, of the history, in short, of Euskadi. There is an industrial heritage made up of cranes, installations, which represent, of course, a cultural value, a sign of identity of the Left Margen itself. And we understand that those more representative elements, with greater value, that serve future generations as elements of knowledge of their past, and that they also serve as learning and as a basis for maintaining them in the future, must be protected. Therefore, and under the Heritage Act, the necessary procedure for its preservation must be put in place, subject to an inventory of such elements. In its conservation is also the guarantee of preservation of an important part of our own identity as a country. Finally, and in order to facilitate planning aimed at attracting industrial investment to the regions of Ezkerraldea, but also to the regions of Meatzaldea and Enkarterri, we also believe that it is essential to draw up an inventory of industrial soils, containing the size of the land, its location, ownership, level of occupation and other data of interest in order to ensure that such planning is precisely adjusted, well-oriented in order to ensure a good industrial future, a good economic future, and to guarantee stable and high-quality jobs in those areas. These are important steps, from our point of view, which must, in turn, be a new starting point that makes it possible for the industrial future in the Naval lands to be a reality. A future, in short, that brings wealth, as I said, in the form of employment, stable and quality, which is certainly the best guarantee for the development of the Left Margin and other regions that must have an opportunity for progress and modernity in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u80	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. The word is yours, Mr. Farrenical patriots.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, Mr. Chief, good morning. Well, right now we're in a process, in a contest of... [[End of tape 39]] [[Beginning of tape 40.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Legs. Congressmen, Mr. Chief, good morning. Well, right now we're in a process, in a creditor contest and, according to the law, the primary objective of the creditor contest is to compensate a debt that is currently 100 million euros that leaves La Naval to 404 suppliers. Therefore, I want to remind you that there are 404 families that have been without eye-catching at night for seven years, that have 100 million euros of loss in their accounting balances and that they have no speaker anywhere, they have no trade unions, they have no representatives. And today I want to start my speech by reminding them and reminding them that they have been seven years with these gigantic understatements in their results accounts. Therefore, the first legal objective of the creditor competition is to compensate all these people by judicial means. And that's why Mrs Tapia can't pick up the phone or the mayor of Sestao can't pick up the phone, call the judge and tell her, listen, I like the third bid more than the first or I would like you to make a Max Mix between the second and the fourth so that the use of the land was the right one, because those 36 million euros offered by the Belgian company are not from Mrs Tapia, they are not from me, they are not from Mr Casanova or Mr Soto, they are from all the Basque taxpayers, and, I'm sorry, they are from all the 404 suppliers that will be compensated, in just a third, those enormous economic failures. What happens here is that there is a second interest and that it is a country interest that is to give the best use to some land, has commented Mr Casanova, that they are in an ideal location next to the sea, besides a sea with a certain sluggishness, have dykes, ramps, 14 active cranes and, therefore, there is a second main interest, that is to bring to these facilities, to enable an industrial activity that generates added value, generates wealth and generates employment. And in that interest of people that we have the Basques, there exists or rests on the demand of the General Plan of Urban Planning of Sestao, which establishes in what percentage and in what conditions the industrial activity has to go. We therefore have, on the one hand, a judge who is conducting the competition, whose main objective is to compensate for the huge debt that La Naval leaves and, on the other hand, the City Council of Sestao, which is currently in the process of making a new General Plan for Urban Planning, but which Mr Bergara, mayor of Sestao, has said this last week, in addition to a very passionate way, has said that they are not going to change the use of land. Let us therefore say that, legally, we already have a sufficient framework to ensure that there is a reasonable use on that land that generates added value and, at the same time, compensate for all that debt. Why do the peasants know that they don't put orchards in good- orientation land? On the fertile soil (... .). Usually there's some very good conditions in the world, a lot of researchers near the train, next to the sea, so that that would require the greatest advantage. That's what I think we all see. So, we're right now, you have to let the judge finish the creditor contest and see what players we have on the playground. It seems that the Belgian company is going to win, which is the one that has bid the most, but, well, once the bidding order is set, of course it is the Government's intention to pool, contact those companies to find the formula for maximum use of those lands. In the middle we've agreed to, first of all, we're asking you to protect us and some installments. Second, making an inventory of the objects that are there. And thirdly, to make an inventory of industrial land, which will receive the dimension of land, property, occupation, and other data of interest. Here, let me in this atmosphere of fair play include some critical pildorite, moreover, I do it in the first turn so that they can answer me, but here, in this of okupazio maila eta beste interesteko besteko datuak jasoko dituena, I would add which party is in the government, because depending on which one, there are industrial projects that will never come out, because there are two weapons of massive evasion of political responsibility in this country of political escalation, the first is the participation, on which there are parties in this country – I will not mention them by the fair play in which we are – that they are shielded, that they parapet behind the participation when they do not want to decide or when they have much internal debate, and the second weapon of massive evasion are the twisting interpretations of the law, for example, of the general urban management plans, as we are seeing in Azpeitia with Corrugados Azpeitia. We are not going to escape here, there is a new PGU going on, but there will be no modification, as confirmed by the Mayor of Sestao, so that there is a different use on those lands than originally established and that the companies that have bid know beforehand. I'm done. Mr. Gil, you've made a somewhat general speech from the Left Margin. Look, the last legislature – you will know, I think you mentioned it – there was a presentation for the reactivation of the Left Margin and there was a shock plan but, at the moment, once that shock plan has been implemented, there is a multi-annual action plan, and that is where we have to put the force not to make a second shock plan, we are not going to be making shock plans every four years, so we have to put the force now in standard, in structuring that multi-annual plan and not inventing another instrument. What has been done since the last legislature is a valid scheme for the future. Mr. Soto, let's talk about modeling because you... and you do it in all areas. We can. Don't you? Education? Sweden. I don't know, working conditions? Norway. Now you say, you mention Scotland and you say "the Scottish government nationalized a shipyard", it's half true, I thought I was also going to mention France, which is an even worse and more palm case, but the Scottish case, by pointing it out, nationalizes because at the end of the creditor contest there is no bid. And, therefore, it is a transitional situation that will not be extended in time. And, secondly, I'm surprised that you, well I'm not so surprised because you're from Podemos, mentions China. Look, in Euskadi we have a naval industry with a great future. We have three shipyards: Zamakona, Balenciaga and Murueta... [[End of tape 40]] [[End of tape 41.]] ... You are from Podemos, mentions China. Look, in Euskadi we have a naval industry with a great future. We have three shipyards: Zamakona, Balenciaga and Murueta, which have found a niche, a market niche, which is that of medium ships related, above all, with tugs, but above all with fishing. They are profitable, especially because the three Asian tigers, which are in the naval field Japan, South Korea and China, have not yet or have not been so strongly involved. But, of course, we are not going back to that developmental model that Euskadi had, which the Spanish State also had 20, 30, 40 years ago. 20 years ago already ending. Because we shared with weapons that we don't (do we have?) which to use now. The first is the low labour cost. The first is the low labour cost. And he'll tell me, I'll give him the argument, and he'll measure: What about Japan? Because they certainly have a working time similar to or even higher than that of Euskadi. For in Japan it happens, for example, that they carry... apart from having 20 years in deflation and having 240% debt with regard to Gross Domestic Product, they have fallen, not in the part of wages, but in the part of working conditions. Therefore, as far as the model is concerned, we believe that in Euskadi we do not have to change the model. We have a model that's working. We have three powerful shipyards. And in that naval ecosystem, we'd like to... Yes, it would be, indeed, very nice that where La Naval was still there was naval activity, either repair or construction of ships. Now, well, if there is a viable industrial option that can also be in the future and can also be of added value, I think that, well, first of all, we cannot deny ourselves by law and, secondly, we must not deny ourselves by self-interest. Because Mr. Casanova said we don't have to let the tears not let us see the stars. Investments are a bit like stars, like fleeting stars, you see them pass for a second and then disappear. We can't be in that mental scheme of, well, no, if an investor comes, for example Azpeitia, Corrugados Azpeitia, if the investor comes and wants to invest equis million euros at a given time in a given place, we can't start with the "No. You invest 50 kilometers and under different conditions." No, no. Investments are opportunities that are earned, exploited or lost. And so, we have the option in the coming months to take advantage of the option, we have a viable option. The Belgian group should be thanked for having put not only 36 million bid, but another 30 additional investment in Euskadi. I think we need to be proud that there are groups of this kind who want to invest in Euskadi. And in the future the Government must do what it is doing: discreetly, without the law giving it any more space than that, discreetly, putting companies in contact so that possible suitable land-use formulas can be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u83	Thank you, Mr. Abrahams. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Myst. Mrs Martínnez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to you all again. The subsequent motion of inquiry that has brought us to this Bildu House today on the future industrial use of the shipyard La Naval and its land is the story of a failure that has already happened. And what is most regrettable, and it is sad to say from this rostrum, the proposal continues to deepen into a mistake that has a difficult solution to the current institutional framework. It is really dramatic that this situation has occurred in a place like Sestao, in the region of the Left Margin, an area of Bizkaia where the precarious work, the dismantling of industry and the productive fabric and the alarming unemployment rates, especially of the youth, put the future of the workers of the Left Margin and their families at serious risk. They have been betrayed by the national government, by the autonomous and by trade unions that only promote ideological policies financed by public money, thus fulfilling the globalist social agenda. The closure of La Naval is the responsibility of the Basque Government, the PNV and PSE, but also in the so-called class unions that have been unable to contribute to creating an economy in the service of workers. Instead, they have devoted themselves to putting workers at the service of global financial mechanisms and powers. They have been unable to recover and strengthen our industry in the face of a model of international trade based on speculation, relocation and unfair competition, which is profoundly damaging to our economy. How many plans for industrialization, economic regeneration, employment have been announced and are still being announced for the Left Margin? Tens. What is the overall result that PSOE and PNV have dedicated themselves to intervening in the Left Margin? The industrial desert. Gentlemen of Elkarrekin Podemos, do you remember the visit your secretary general, Pablo Iglesias, made in October 2018 to La Naval? Do you remember urging the governments of Sanchez and Urkullu to rescue the Naval? I do remember. It is true that, once appointed Vice-President of the Government, the problem disappeared from his agenda. It should also be recalled that in February of last year it also went through Sestao and again raised the need for the rescue of La Naval by taking advantage of the negotiation of Budgets. What happened? Well, he negotiated the Budgets, but he still didn't save the Naval. I'm sorry to tell you that this government of PNV, PSOE and the other of PSOE, Podemos have shown an absolute lack of rigour, not only with La Naval, but with the industry of the entire Left Margin. After four years in a creditor contest, La Naval failed to get any industrial group to assume its rescue. Now what you want is to urge the owners, the Belgian logistics group VGP, to do what you, all of you, were not able to do: keep the naval industry on the Left Margin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u85	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Mr. Casanova, by the turn of the answers, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u86	Good afternoon again... [[End of tape 41.]] [[Start of tape 42]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u87	I'm out of my mind. Well, Mr. Arruabarrena, I do not think the Belgians should be thanked for the investment, I think we should congratulate them and congratulate them on the vision they have had, and it is a company that is dedicated to acquiring good land to give them logistical uses and to be a donkey of other companies. You've had a good eye, you've made an offer, for me, irritably low, but it's been the highest. And, therefore, congratulations because they have done a round business. I don't have anything to blame them for either. The only thing I am going to raise is that we are able to turn the situation around, and then I will return to the issue. To Mr. Gil Vegas, man, what I would have to say is that you may not master a subject, because you catch away or because one is new, it happens to me with many questions, what is usually a somewhat risky recipe is to accompany ignorance with arrogance. I ask you, and as I am in a good mood, I am not going to go in and fight or attack the multiple open flanks that you have left in your speech, but, well, I ask you to review a little bit of parliamentary activity in recent years and who has done what, and so I think I would have a little more illustration of what we are talking about and what it is to fight for the defense of the Left Margin. And a second question, it is true that you have made an approach by elevation. If it were the first time the issue came up here, it might have made sense to place the question of the Naval in the global context, if it had never been done. But we've been doing quite, quite a few years, quite a few years. And we have talked about a proposal on the shipyard La Naval, obviously there is a background there and we have also introduced a reflection on the general situation of the Left Margin. It is not a reflection, but concrete proposals, but in a limited area. And we have not come here either to talk about housing, education and so on, other issues that are absolutely relevant, but that have their lanes and their channels for which they are already dealing. Eskertzen god Arruabarrena jaunari hornitzaileen eta provedoreen eta zordunak aipatzea. I think that the question of suppliers also deserved to be put on the table, because there are companies, some of them very small and some of them that have gone to the trouble directly because of this debt. And when we speak, precisely, that we are faced with a traumatic situation that should have been avoided, I have mentioned the workers, I have also mentioned the contracts, but it is true that there are other collateral damage also very serious, and that is precisely why we had to redouble our efforts. Because someone can think "well, if other companies are going to open up, nothing has happened." Yes, yes, many things have happened, there are many open wounds and there is much suffering and much economic deterioration that could have been avoided. I think, well, I'm gonna reopen the thanks chapter because if not then it won't give me time. As I said before, Mr Arruabarrena has a proactive attitude and has been able not to raise a wall before the initial proposal of EH Bildu, although he had a very critical content directly against the government, but he has been able to look for those meeting points. He has also had interlocutors in the Government who have advised him and who have also been receptive, whom I would like to acknowledge, and Mr Soto and Mr Andueza's participation as well. And, therefore, I think, as I said, it is a good time, it is a good deal and we have achieved practically I believe with this subject at this point as much as we could achieve. Egia da, gaiak eskatzen zuen, eta agian gorputzak eskatzen zigun batzuei behintzat, mendeku gosetik, nolabaiteko rekriminazioak Egypta éta konfrontaziora jotzea, batha momentu horretan horrek ez ez ezer aportzen gaiaren konponbideari. We have had a serious problem, as we have said, traumatic, but it is time for damage control and not blame for the responsibilities. And if in this control of damage one can seek synergies that facilitate, precisely, to bring the situation back to a more favorable scenario, I repeat, for whom we must work which is for the majority of the society of the Left Margin and of this country, for I believe that we have done an effective exercise of control of damage and we have agreed practically, sure that there is room for other ideas and contributions on this subject, but three very important issues. And two of them are very specific that concern the Government and therefore have to have, in view of the commitment that is being made today, a form and a materialization in the times when they have been agreed. On the one hand, the inventory of soils, like the fact that the Government asks for a year to carry it out because of the problems of the auctions and so on, demonstrates how necessary it was and how blind we have been in planning to attract industries, when we didn't even know where they could be deployed. I'm not going to talk about Azpeitia, I'm going to talk about the area we're talking about, where we have in Güeñes a park, for example, Arangoiti I think it's called, where the only activity is a txikipark, where we have the best grounds of the Left Margen next to those of La Naval of the old Babcock Wilcox converted into Amazon or Costco, which is another supermarket. Or we have urbanization of an area without urbanizing the left part, which is not left over from the green areas, such as the Abanto Technological Park, which being a good idea the technological park itself, has chosen a location that we thought was not necessary. There are many things left for me, I thought I might be able to do a little faster, but one last mention of my fortune. And I think it's been a good week in the commercial law of estates yesterday around Labe Times and today about the vanguards of Laval and other estates. I think we need to take consciousness, machines, machines, machines, and machines. It is probably connected with the society of other monuments of this kind, but if they were to be palaces or an historic apartment, they should be guarded by machines? Yeah, you have to look after them. After all, the house of the famous architect Le Corbusier is also a machine for living. We must also save the machines which give us the patrimony and testimony of our history, especially to remember where we come from, and especially to know the industry and industrialization that it wants to follow from the womb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u88	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Together Podemos? He mustn't speak. Mr. Gil, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Congratulations. I sincerely congratulate you on this unusual agreement. Although I must admit that so much congratulations among you leave me worried. First of all, I regret that this agreement has not been able to occur before to save the Naval. Now we do, now we make a deal. And I'm worried about those congratulations because it's not going to be, it's not going to happen, that this agreement is serving to erase the mistakes of one side... [[End of tape 42]] [[Begin of tape 43]] ... these congratulations, because it is not going to be, it is not going to happen, that this agreement is serving to erase the mistakes of one side, and for the other to remain as if it has done something useful, like that, well, even at the end, it has proposed to keep the cranes. Man, it's not a matter of... it's not a matter of arrogance, Mr. Casanova, it's a matter of responsibility. Talking about the Left Margin is not (?) Pulling by lift, is that what happens here is not limited to La Naval, is that La Naval already has little remedy. Okay, yeah, (?We save the cranes, and we don't think it's bad, and we're going to vote... We are not going to vote against it, I say, but it seems absolutely insufficient to us, that is to say, it seems to us that the problem is much wider than all this; that is, today we will end up here with this agreement, you will indeed welcome it, but the Left Margen will remain fatal, the Left Margen will remain fatal, and yes, it is true that you have done... you have been talking about the subject a long time, talking about the subject, because really the Left Margen has not noticed at all all all those plans that we have made so far, Mr Arruabarrena. It is true that these plans have been made, but in what is improving the Left Margin?, because that is the fundamental problem, and it is that, I repeat, leaving out the theme of La Naval is to stay with a grain of the problem, it is that we have to see the topic in its complexity. We believe that the issue of the Left Margin needs to be taken more globally and more seriously. We think there's a lot of people in there who are suffering. And the shock plan that was made before, I tell you, I don't know, I guess it was very good, but I repeat it's not working at all. And so, what I don't want to look like is that we do things, like those shock plans, to make it look like we're doing something, but then the results don't really reach people. So, what we're proposing is not to make another shock plan the same, we're proposing to do something real, we're proposing to do something that really works, something different, and in that line goes our proposal, that there are many more and that we also didn't want to make a book here instead of an amendment, that we can sit down and think about them, but I think we should leave ourselves a little behind and tackle the issue of the Left Margin thoroughly and seriously once and for all. No more, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u90	Thank you, Mr. Gil. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u91	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea. Now it turns out that the problems of La Naval come from the fault of the institutional framework that we have in this country, with which the solution is to eliminate the Basque Government, to eliminate the deputies, to keep the municipalities, perhaps choosing the mayor by finger, and also the guilty ones are the unions, because what has to be restored is the vertical union, well, something very typical of past times, which of course, as you will understand, we do not share at all. I share with Mr Casanova that I believe this is a good agreement. It is a good agreement, because it demonstrates the commitment of four parliamentary groups which represent an immense majority of this Parliament and which shows the will to move forward without reproach, of course, there must always be, and much more in a parliamentary debate, room for criticism, but without great reproach. I think that a good journey has been made and that each one on the plot that belonged to him has been generous with the other to try to reach an agreement. And I congratulate myself on that, because I believe that this agreement, I repeat and repeat, is far beyond what some in the beginning can assume, why, because they lay the foundations on various issues that I believe are fundamental, and one of them is nuclear and that it is the power to lay the foundations precisely for building a planning for the future of the regions we have mentioned, and above all because they affect the commitment of this Government and also of the opposition groups that have signed the transactional in the industrial future. All in all, I believe that these are key issues for the future development of these regions; therefore, this agreement is of great importance and importance. Mr. Gil Vegas said that this agreement was insufficient, that he lacked some concreteness. I am not going to deny it, of course, if we make a brief analysis of the needs, the difficulties, the shortcomings, also the virtues that these regions may have, and especially the Left Margin, we can share that, of course, this may be insufficient, but we were talking about a specific project, a specific issue to which we have attached ourselves. To that end, in order to address issues that go beyond what is the specific question of La Naval, a presentation was precisely held in the last legislature which has its conclusions and which you consider to be also insufficient. And I don't share your catastrophic vision, because I think that's giving results and I think it's going to continue to give results. And of course, if there is room for improvement, logically, we will always be willing to work on that margin of improvement to improve the results and to try, of course, to renew not only our commitment, but also to renew the strategy to deal with those variations in the diagnosis that could occur through the changes that occur over time. But I do not share his catastrophe, nor his fatalism, which I also believe that this coalition government, the Socialist Party of Basque Nationalist Party coalition government, has an express commitment, not only to that region, but to all the regions that make up Basque, and of course not only through concrete policies, but also through cross-cutting policies, to build a country, and of course to meet, in some way, not only the demands, but also the problems that our citizens have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u92	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mr. Barbarese, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u93	Thank you very much, but thank you, Mr. Casanova, for the way you've expressed yourself, and for the arrangement. Let's have a look. [[End of tape 43.]] [[Begin of tape 44.]] ... Mr. Casanova, for your attitude and your compromise. Let's take a look at the future and test the chances both in Setagon and Azpei. I think it's important to put all the facilities when we see an investment opportunity, not trouble, right? Mr Soto has not come down, but well, as before he has devoted all his speech to criticism, I have left myself with a couple of appreciations that I wanted to make. And the truth is that, in Europe, in the naval sector, we have given ourselves a model and in that model we have public shipyards, especially in the military sector – we all understand why that is done – and private shipyards in the merchant ship sector. And it's logical and it's a system that doesn't work badly. We have two main niches where it works very well. And it is precisely where the most added value is generated; and it is on cruises and fishing. The largest shipyard in the world of cruises is Fincatieri, it is Italian-French. And the main shipyards of fishing vessels are in Europe. We must not go towards low-cost development models and copy them, but we must develop the model we have in Europe. And if there are opportunities in that model, as there may be in the case that we are debating today, well, discreetly, let's try to take advantage of them, always understanding – I say again – that the margin, that the law does not give any margin and, therefore, would, in any case, be what the Americans say soft power. To try to facilitate, to contact people, in short, things that all governments do and that also in this case they will certainly do. Mr Gil, I love to see your speech as an outsider of politics and in that anti-liberal attitude of buying bankrupt companies. I only thought they did it as an exception in cases like Bankia, where the creditors were not 404, but 49 million citizens. In any case, and I conclude, to repeat that, in that space so suitable for the reconstruction or repair of ships, well, it would be ideal if there were to be repair or construction of ships, but if other opportunities are opened that go according to the General Plan of Urban Planning of Sestao and that generate added value and employment to the region, I believe that they are not worse options, they are not less options and therefore we have to salute them and value them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u94	Mist? Isn't the missile gonna say a word? So we're going to end our discussion, we're gonna vote for EH, the EEscal Socialists, and the middle-liner that signed the Eucabertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 44; 75; the supporters are 68; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 7; white; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u95	So we have to accept the half-path correction. Number of points in theme list: "The other proposal as to the popular group of the Euscals-Ciudadans, in the health crisis due to COVID-19, and in the economic crisis the rate to be reduced to the tax added to the barber services. To discuss and to decide once and for all." Mr. Gordillo, representative of the Basque Popular Group, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u96	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, Mr Lehendakari, who is with us. It is already the last item on the agenda. It has been a very intense plenary today. I will try to be brief and focus on the fundamental issue before us. We have put forward a proposal to this House on the reduction of the tax rate applicable to hairdressing services, especially during this situation, this period of health and economic crisis. We believe that it is important that this sector, the hairdressing sector and sometimes small services are also provided by small aesthetic services, because it has also been one of the sectors which, among all the administrations, perhaps I do not want to say that we have forgotten all about it, but perhaps we could have carried out some other actions to help them more. I think it is important to help and recognize this sector also to make it visible. And one of the measures that we believe can be reasonable is to propose, because here, in this case, what Parliament is asked to do is that the national Government, the Government of Spain will carry out a review of the tax rates and that, on average as far as possible, it will carry out a decrease for this type of services. Above all, we also believe that this role needs to be claimed for three types of reasons, ladies and gentlemen: firstly, for reasons of equity; secondly, for reasons of an economic nature; and thirdly, if I may, for a social, human and visibility factor in this sector as well. But, first of all, hairdressing services, being considered an essential service, because there have been certain aids to which you have not been able to access for various reasons that you, ladies and gentlemen, already know. Perhaps their level of work has been greatly reduced, but that has not involved closure, but, of course, they have had to reduce their activity very much and they have not been able to receive some kind of closure aid at best. On the other hand, from an economic point of view, there are also a number of factors which have also reduced the workload of hairdressers. Look, not only the health factor, which is important, because, of course, when we are in this situation, the people who are subject to this situation now of crisis and pandemic, health crisis, that we see reduced our free mobility, there are certain measures that best avoid greater mobility or that, basically, that... [[End of tape 44.]] [[Start of tape 45]] ... health crisis, which we see reduced our free mobility, there are certain measures that best avoid greater mobility or that, in essence, prevent or modulate our consumption. So, here's a small factor, also psychological, that in times of crisis... This is more or less accepted, it's proven... in economic matters, in times of crisis it is customary for the consumer to lower this lack of certain expectations, since it lowers consumption. And one of the things it usually cuts in, because it can be this kind of service. There is another type of economic factor, which also logically refers to people who, unfortunately, have lost their jobs in this whole crisis or who have also seen their ability to generate income greatly reduced, because they have obviously also lost economic capacity, and one of the things in which they have also cut is this type of services. And then, of course, the health factor, let us not forget. Of course, we also reduced mobility. And also people, because although we can make certain movements and other things to go to these centers, we also self-contain, try to self-contain and avoid certain sort of exits. And one of the exits that seems to have also been shown to have been reduced, because they are these kinds of exits or these kinds of movements or movements to get to these premises where they provide this type of services. All this, of course, and without obviating the situation which has also affected many people, who have unfortunately lost their jobs and are in a very vulnerable economic situation at the moment. And the third factor... We have said the equity factor; let's say, a factor to compensate in some way. The second factor was the most clearly economic factor. And the third factor that I would like – ladies and gentlemen – to claim here, or comment here with you today, is the human factor, that social factor, and that need also – I believe – for visibility. We in this Parliament present the groups with different initiatives to recognise certain groups, institutions, sectors of work, etc. And I think it is also time that we recognized this trade, the trade of hairdressing, and that it also provides small services related to aesthetics. I think it is necessary to recognize it today. First of all, many are also autonomous, not to say the vast majority. But the number of self-employed in this sector is very wide. There are also companies, of course, but many are autonomous. Many, many, are also women. And, man, we all know, of course, that there is still a lot of work to be done on issues of conciliation, on issues of equality, etc., and that the usual burden that women can have, who have them in our society in certain social aspects. I am not going to enter this debate, but come on, we all know, because they also make this compatible with work, because it is obviously an important burden. And everyone has some psychologists. Everyone's got some shrinks. Hairdressers, ladies and gentlemen, you know it, we all know it, are meeting places in times let's say... I don't mean normal, because normal I don't know what it's gonna be anymore. But, you all know, ladies and gentlemen, hairdressers are more or less meeting places, they're places where we disconnect. One thing so important today, I think, is, at certain times, above all to disconnect. They're places where they listen to us. They listen to us, they listen to us, or sometimes they seem to listen to us. And this, of course, raises a lot or does not raise self-esteem too; I think this is important. This human factor, that social work, I would say discreet and almost covert that is also done in hairdressing, I think it is very important to claim it in these pandemic times, where the truth is that the necessary containment measures, all kinds of restrictions that are established to contain the expansion of the pandemic, and above all the situation of uncertainty, affect us much psychologically, perhaps more than many of us want to recognize. And this type of travel, of travel, that was made before naturally to hairdressing centers, that were a small escape, because now they are more limited, obviously. That is why we have presented this initiative, which is why it seems to us to be timely, and I think it is appropriate to present it today. I am very grateful for the willingness of the parliamentary groups that support the Government, with which we have reached agreement. We have (...), logically, both the groups of the Government and – of course – us, to reach a meeting point. To us, and I would also like to thank Mrs Berrojalbiz in particular, with whom I so much discuss and disagree on many points, but, at this point, as I see it, we have been able to reach an agreement. As with Mrs Pérez Ezquerra of the Socialist Group. Man, of course, we would have liked to go a little further: to establish clearly a concrete reduction to 10%. But we understand that this agreement is positive, and that, above all, it is a step in the right direction. And ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I am only asking for the support of this House for this initiative, in which only one thing is proposed, which is to lower the tax burden. Lower the tax burden to a sector particularly hit by the crisis, which carries out important economic work, which has difficulty in maintaining its business, and which also carries out social work which is discreet, which we sometimes do not perceive, but which we believe is also important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u97	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Pérez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u98	Thank you, President. It is not the first GNP to be adopted on this issue. And it is that, in fact, it is an issue that already comes from years ago. Specifically, since July 2012, when the Government of Spain carried out a tax increase that entered into force in September 2012. In the specific case of hairdressers, it caused serious injury as it increased the reduced rate from 8 % to 21 %. A rise of 13 percentage points, which was a severe blow for a small business sector, which triggered the closure of many establishments by not being able to transfer that rise to the final prices, or by assuming it, an insurmountable loss. That is precisely why, from the Socialist Party, we are now urging the Rajoy Government to reconsider the measure, and to re-place the hairdressing sector on a 10% tax escalation. Specifically, we support a GNP in 2014, and we present another in 2017. We continue to defend the same position, and we continue to defend the increase in the progressive nature of the tax system. We believe that the hairdressing sector has a very important economic and social relevance in our country. It's a small sector... [[End of tape 45]] [[Start of tape 46.]] ...progressive fiscal system. We believe that the hairdressing sector has a very important economic and social relevance in our country. It is a sector of small businesses and entrepreneurs for the most part, which still hold a large number of jobs today and which, moreover, is one of the few sectors that are dominated by almost all women, and are playing an essential role in sustaining the dignity of the person in this exceptional situation of the covid. Now, moreover, we are in a very exceptional situation, with many economic sectors affected, and in addition very unevenly, even within the same sector there is not the same evolution according to the territory or autonomous community in which it is located, the pandemic is affecting very unevenly. We fully understand the difficulties of the sector and think that since 2012, having overcome the worst of the crisis, the reduced VAT rate of 10% should have been reintroduced, as promised by the Rajoy Government, more if possible, on the understanding that this was a short-term measure. But now, in the face of a tax review and reform by the central government, and given the pandemic situation we are experiencing, we believe that this reduction in VAT must be seen as part of a comprehensive reform of this tax, which must be analysed which sectors are most affected to see which ones can be reduced, but touching sector by sector in each GNP creates more instability and is not the way to deal with it. You, too, think of it as citizens in Congress. In this regard, the Ministry of Finance has already announced the activation of the committee of experts which will be set up as a participatory process and will be open not only to universities and companies engaged in the financial field, but also to tax technicians from local communities and entities, and to anyone who wishes to raise any ideas or documents in this regard. With regard to VAT, all rates will be reviewed and, while Spain makes greater use of the reduced rates than other countries in Europe, the central government has committed itself to a calm analysis of this tax. Hence the compromise amendment that we have reached, where we are looking at the revision of VAT rates, within this comprehensive revision of the tax and in line with European legislation, and among other sectors precisely the one that we are dealing with today in the professional sector of hairdressing and aesthetics. In the meantime, it is essential to continue to adopt support measures for SMEs and self-employed people who are most affected by the pandemic, and measures to contain it, such as ERTE, the economic benefit of cessation, deferral of taxes, ICO or Elkargi guarantees in our case, moratoriums on the payment of rents or the possibility of temporarily moving to the direct estimation scheme to bring taxes into line with the reduction in activity. Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his efforts to reach this compromise amendment and for the attitude of the proposing group, especially at this time of pandemic, since these kinds of agreements, of course, facilitate coexistence and help not to create any more tension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Legs. Good afternoon, chiefs, ladies and gentlemen. Good noon, everyone. The initiative we are discussing today aims to alleviate the situation of a sector, that of hairdressers, affected by the crisis of the covid by reducing the rate of VAT applicable in its services. An initiative on which we have tabled an amendment and agreed on a compromise. But before defending our text, I would like to make a couple of points, because, Mr Gordillo, even though we have debated it today – we will be discussing it in a good tone – it has surprised me that this debate will be brought to us today, and I therefore do not want to stop commenting on a couple of issues, always from respect and from affection. First, the People-Citizens group says in its initiative, in the motivation of its initiative, that the sector has a tax on the tax, and I read it this way, on the value added tax that only puts obstacles in a moment of suffocation. I agree. This reduction will be a relief, we agree. But, Mr. Gordillo, who was the creator of the rise of the current tax rate? The government of Mariano Rajoy, the government of the People's Party, raised VAT from the reduced rate to the general, and as they argued at the time "temporaryly", but never corrected it and had opportunities to do so. It's okay, uh, for you to introduce yourself here and your group with this flag – as you have already done in Congress and what I'll be referring to later on – but it's now a coincidence that the People's Party had the opportunity to reduce the tax rate when they were in the government and claim it now that they're in the opposition. Second. They bring a debate to this House – which is not competent – when a few weeks ago, I believe that on 23 March, they already took it to Congress and the Senate, and also with a positive result. The Congress and the Senate have already asked to review the VAT in the cosmetic hairdressing sector and I would swear that barbershops too, which raises the question of what particular interest do they have in dealing here with this debate that has already been conducted where it belongs, where the competition is? Unfortunately, we do not have the capacity to regulate VAT here and where we have already asked, the initiative proposed by you has already come forward. So why are we discussing this issue today? We are all aware of what the sector of the crisis is going through, but there are many sectors that are having a bad time, and I do not think that it is just a reduction of this tax that solves all the evils or that it should be a reduction limited to this group. The victims have been many. And leaving aside these two points, I would like to point out, in any case, our support for the reduction of VAT to the sector of cosmetic hairdressers and barbershops, which we already expressed when we discussed, as I said before, this same proposal in the Congress of Deputies on 23 March and also in the Senate a couple of days later, although our group did so in defence of the need for comprehensive reform. And that's what we came to do here today, we gave our convinced yes in Madrid. And today we demand other changes, profound, global changes that help the tax system to adapt to social and economic transformations. A tax system that strengthens public services and accompanies the economic recovery phase. So if we want to be more effective, responsible and non-repetitive, let's take a step forward. Let us call on the Government of the State for a general tax reform of this tax. And this is precisely the spirit of the amendment... [[End of tape 46]] [[Start of tape 47]] ...let's go a little further now. Let us call on the Government of the State for a general tax reform of this tax. And that is precisely the spirit of the amendment that we have tabled and that is reflected in the agreed compromise. And what else has led us to present an alternative text to ultimately justify the need for this and consequent compromise amendment? First, because we believe that the original initiative was out of date as they brought us a debate, as I have told you before, which took place less than a month ago in Congress and in the Senate, which went ahead and counted on our support. In fact, even if I thought that they would withdraw or leave the initiative, let's say speak like that a little bit more, let her die on the list of initiatives. The second reason is that the Basque People's Group proposes to reduce VAT only to hairdressing services and not to other services linked to the sector, such as beauty and barber services. And the initiative that we support in Congress does include all these and as the wording that you propose in the initiative seems not to include all the services linked to the hairdressing sector, because we wanted to make it clear in the proposed transactional. Competencies. Unfortunately, neither the Basque Parliament nor the Basque Government are competent in this matter. But, in any case, I also say to you that I have and would have no problem discussing this issue in this Parliament, with the Group of the European People's Party and with the other political groups, if groups such as yours in Madrid worked for a greater self-government of Euskadi depending on this Parliament and the Foral Chambers to carry out tax changes in the area of VAT. I encourage you to fight, Mr Gordillo, in Madrid, for the amendment of the Economic Concert to conclude all taxes, the new ones included, that some are still pending, and that, in particular, VAT is our competence. We will thus stop urging the Government of Spain to change any tax issue. However, when I see precedents and the central intention of some of the members of the prosecution, I have many doubts. More questions. Originality. Mr. Gordillo, with what you are, if you saw Beobide, I see you as unoriginal. I have reviewed the VAT initiatives presented at the Congress last year, during this last year of the pandemic, and I note that they are simply presenting in this Parliament the same initiatives discussed in Madrid, which I will soon take up, reviewing me and I have the list here, and we will have to discuss the reduction of VAT to veterinary services, that of pyrotechnic cultural shows, that of funeral services or that of the tourist sector, taking my diary last year's sessions. All of them very relevant sectors and, moreover, very punished by the crisis, but let us not waste time on matters already discussed and discussed and agreed where it touches. Because at this point in the debate, the only thing that gives me the feeling – and correct me if you have another vision – the only thing that is achieved by bringing this kind of debate to Parliament, and with repetitive debates and with VAT drop messages around here, and which remind me, moreover, of the advertising campaigns of the days without VAT, are not able to help the sector, because that has already been achieved in Congress, which is where they have the competence, but gives me the feeling that it is to discredit the tax system so relevant to sustain a good system of public services and our welfare state. It gives me this against a tax pedagogy and I think we should not increase the lack of fiscal awareness right now. A very important effort is being made by the deputies and the Government with training and awareness-raising programmes, with educational actions aimed at raising fiscal awareness, and also addressing the tax issue from the perspective as an ethical and citizen action. And I think we have to go that way, vision that I assume you will share with me and that I do not doubt that it will be so, Mr Gordillo. Finally, and it is true that a VAT reduction is not a definitive solution and I believe that some of the speakers who have preceded me have warned this, and you too, Mr Gordillo, and I think you are right. It's not the philosopher's stone. There is another type of action that needs to be taken in the sector. A sector that, as we say, is precarious and very feminized, and this should involve another type of measure without only being attached to the tax measures that, taken and shared with you, can, in this case, bring relief to the sector. And in consequence of all this, we introduced a correction to this initiative, because we believe that the reviews and examinations of the VAT area must go beyond them, and that the changes of the rates of the VAT to be applied must be affected by so many sectors, as the hair shop-dressers and the departments of aesthetics are included. That, considered at all times, has always been defended by the Jelt party of the Euric Party to lower the VAT in Congress and in the Senate and today, but we want to open the impact with our initiative to more sectors and services. Our group has always advocated the reduction of VAT in the hairdressing and aesthetics sector, as we have done in Congress and in the Senate, and we are doing it here again today, but, with our amendment and, in particular, with the transactional one, we intend to extend the impact to more sectors and services, including the hairdressing and aesthetics sector. In conclusion, I simply wanted to thank the People's-Citizens Group, Mr Gordillo, who, from the differences and with some constructive criticism and affection, wanted to thank him for appreciating our more global vision of global analysis in the field of VAT and for being able to have sex. And also thank those groups that will support our transactional. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Passing round the teams that don't run, together, Podemos-Netz Group representative, Mr. Soso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u102	jaunak: Good morning again to everyone and everyone. To say that, Mr Gordillo, we will vote in favour of the compromise, but it is true that I have to make a few points and several comments. Some of them have already moved them, but in any case, I'm going to give them some other sense. The truth is that, from our group, we agree to remove the protagonism of indirect taxes, as long as this reduction applies subsequently to the price of the final product that sometimes does not pass... [[End of tape 47]] [[Start of tape 48]] ... provided that this reduction is subsequently applied to the price of the final product, which sometimes does not pass. In any case, we must say that we are surprised that the People's-Citizens Party – it is true that there are certain nuances here, but in any case the parliamentary Group People's-Citizens Party, which has generally always had an attitude towards indirect taxes, and not, of course, because of what is more progressive, direct taxes – in this case, propose reductions, and also do so, as has already been said, in a step-by-step way in the Congress of Deputies, seems to be – as was well said – because with an arduous approach to certain very specific sectors, in short, more in terms, I believe, partisans and electoralists than to contribute to the good of those collectives or sectors. Finally, we believe that it is quite cynical that those who are part of a parliamentary group that in 2012 practiced the rise that is now intended to correct, because come here now to think about the same thing, that we have to reduce the VAT that Mr Rajoy raised at the time. And it is also that the fiscal policy that Mr Rajoy proposed in his mandate was absolutely regressive, that is, that there were tax increases of VAT in virtually countless products, but then in turn, it benefited – as is usually the usual policy of the People's Party in this sense – from higher incomes and large assets, which is the usual focus of this formation, and I also understand as Citizens. All this fiscal policy has contributed to the fact that now the Spanish Government in this case – but we have once also blamed the Basque Government for the fact that the reality of fiscal policy and the structuring of income in this sense then affects how we can deal with a moment like the current one, which is a critical moment of pandemic – and the truth is that at the moment Mr Rajoy's fiscal policy has contributed to a state of sclerotised well-being that has to face a moment of pandemic being – and, moreover, should offer data – being, according to Eurostat, corresponding data, it is true that with some delay but corresponding to the year 2019, he says, "our country is in the nineteenth position in relation to income from taxes and social contributions, with 35.4% of GDP, being well below the European average, 41.1% of GDP, and the euro area average 40.2% of GDP. France and Denmark far outnumber us, 47% the first, 46% the second." In order that, of course, the idea that it does not have to underlie this is that tax cuts have to be applied and that taxes are bad. Basically that is the pedagogy that you usually try to apply whenever we talk about this issue specifically in more general and doctrinal terms, but in order to maintain community welfare and a social shield, as you usually say, it is necessary to have a fiscal structure that allows that to happen. In any case, in relation to this, I say, we will support it because specifically – and referring to the question of VAT and, moreover, in the transactional also a mention is made, although of course not with the same mating as in the original – the hairdressing industry does consider that at some point it will have to turn to the type that was applied in 2012 or before 2012. And, well, in this regard, we believe that the initiative is right, although – and I do not want to repeat myself too much – this is certainly not the place and we believe that it should be – and you are as guarantors of national sovereignty by understanding it as the defence to the extreme of centralism in competitive terms – we believe that bringing here an issue that will serve little, that is, more fireworks, will lead to a general agreement of all parliamentary groups, welcome either. And, in any case, the initiative is positive as long as at the end where it plays, which you already know where it is, then it actually applies when it corresponds, as Mrs Pérez told you. And I have nothing more to say than to invite you to have a debate on the structure or application of VAT in Euskadi if you ever want to have a debate on the structure or application of VAT in Euskadi, and you also want to include here what has to do with self-government in this regard, do so, but in more general terms, so that the debate can be raised a little beyond what has to do with very specific sectors. And also, bearing in mind that we all know what has already happened in terms of reflections, contributions, positions by almost all the parliamentary groups here, but in the Congress of Deputies, then come here to replicate the same positions, because I do not know very well for what. In any case, I tell you, we will support the initiative and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u103	Thank you, Mr. Soto. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u104	Thank you, Mr. President. And good morning to all. Today, as it is plain, we have a subject of the VAT, and it is true that this subject is in the middle of these days; but I should say that it is long ago in the stock. In fact, the sector has made many claims since 2012. And not only the thread of the VAT, but also the subject of the VAT from various other claims... [[End of tape 48]] [[Start of tape 49]] ... Because he's 2012. And not only the thread of the VAT, but it introduces the subject of the VAT among other proclamations. Sectors have been asking for a set of sectors for years to face the situation that they're living from 2012. And this demand has been taken to Madrid in the presence of the PP government as well as in the governments of PSOE; and both have been introduced at different times by their petitions. It has been said, but in 2012, while he was in the government of PP Spain, he made the general rise of the VAT for others while he accepted the amnesty. Paradojas de la vida diríano. And at that moment the average rate of the VAT has been said to increase it from 18 to 21. Reduced rate from 8 to 10%, and other products and services have been modified from reduced to a general rate. And that was where Mr. Gordillo's hairpresser sat today. But not only that, for instance, were the entrances to the cinema and theatre, the theme of the CAT CAT-CAT, which we have often spoken of, but which has often been discussed, has been sometimes in this house. And many of the VAT's have changed, as I said, many of them have come back to it, well, not to that, because it's in its own way, and they've been told how much of it, but it's the barber's sector, though it's different from the Madrid Government, that is, PPkk, and then put it in, because it's still like that. So let's make it clear that the PP's government decided the change from the hairshop service when it was in Madrid. So PP decided to transfer this sector from a smaller VAT to a general VAT because he didn't think at least that it was a basic sector at that moment. And the PP-Ciudados here today represents this request. And I must confess, Mr. Gordillo, that I thought it very curious when I read it, and even more curious when I read it, it would be here to-day. And it seems curious to me for different reasons. On the one hand, as a state competition, a member of a party who exalts the centrality of the State and despises our autonomy, appears to me at least curious to bring this subject here. And on the other hand, as has been discussed in the Congress of Madrid, even if it is at the Ogage Committee, it is not in the plune, but in the Ogage Board, because the discussion has already been discussed, and because all the groups here have been voted. So I'm curious to bring this group here into discussion especially, and to want the answer here when they already have the answer on the table in Madrid. And we, from the D.H.D., have always had a very clear attitude around the VAT, and have been critical of the character of the DATAT. It is an indirect tax, and has been mentioned, and therefore we think it an unjust tax, because it is no matter who buys it; it is no matter whether a rich man buys it, or a middle class, they will pay the same. And we are also critical of the tendency to increase the weight of these indirect taxes by which it has been for the last few years, and of which we are very critical. And being critical of the very nature of VAT and, above all, of the over-sizing that has been voluntarily given by the different governments to this tax, and of the general collection of indirect taxes to the detriment of direct taxes, thus leaving aside, in a more than obvious way, the option to make a more just and progressive taxation that these latter give, we cannot fail to claim today, in this atrium, because competition over VAT. And I tell you how sorry I am, the competition on VAT for Basque farms. Why not? Why not decide here the rates of VAT and not be mere tax collectors? Because the truth is that we would avoid issues such as having to go and claim to Madrid today what we are going to have to claim, and we would have many other advantages, actually, Mr Gordillo. And that is a claim we have made from EH Bildu, and we will continue to make in this house and in all the houses in which we have voice and word. Because we insist that having all the tools is our best way to make the country we want a reality, because it is the way in which we can decide between all and which country we want to build. And as I said at the beginning, and the people who preceded me have also commented, this issue is not a topic that has arisen with the crisis of the coronavirus, with the crisis of the pandemic, this issue comes from behind, from far back., specifically from the last great crisis before, since 2008. The year of the 2008 crisis brought with it a change in consumer habits due to the long duration of that crisis, which was longer than we had had. And that is concrete on two very basic issues that involve this sector. On the one hand, lower frequency of the visit, and, on the other hand, a much lower average ticket. And this situation that was already coming since 2008, because it took care to sharpen the People's Party in 2012 by raising VAT. In a rise sponsored by a People's Party which changed because, because it was good for it, the fiscal status of this sector, of passing from first necessity, and then changed them to being in the general tax of 21 %. And that was done by the People's Party in 2012, among other many barabasadas it did in fiscal areas. And the others I prefer not to mention. And that being the case, that's why it said that this is long before the coronavirus crisis, and the sector said that there were more than 8,800 closed businesses, more than 20,000 jobs lost. This was long before the coronavirus crisis. Beraz, krisi handitik datorren egora larria bizitzen ari da sektorea, éta horrek sektorean beran aldaketa asko supposatu ditu: store in itxiera, langileen galera, éta zarera abera aldatu izan da azken urteetan. Therefore, this is not a subject of the coronavirus crisis, I insist, because there is no doubt that this crisis, although it is true that this crisis has had and is having a serious effect on the sector, worsening a situation that was already being hit. And it is a sector that, as has been mentioned, was considered essential at the beginning of the pandemic... [[End of tape 49]] [[Initial of tape 50]] ... effect on the sector by worsening a situation that was already being dealt with. And it is a sector that, as has been mentioned, was considered essential at the start of the pandemic, a sector that has had to adapt to a regulation that has entailed a substantial increase in spending to comply with the health measures in force. A sector that has undoubtedly also suffered loss of customers by the pandemic itself and the social situation that has been generated by the limitation of mobility, among many other measures. And, I insist, it is a sector with a strong presence of self-employed people and businesses of few workers, as has been said. And I say workers because, as has been said, it is a highly feminized sector. In addition, it is a young sector, where more than 67% of workers in the sector are barely 45 years of age. Therefore, it is once again young women who come to suffer the consequences of the crisis that we have been dragging away since 2008 in this area of the economy. So we understand the protection we're asking for from the Basque Country as they've done so many other sectors. Direct helps, tax payment delays, are being requested for sectorframes, or their services are referred to as the relevant definition application. We understand that. And when we collect the Basque People, we can clearly see that the defence of the rights and the protection of the sectors is still essential, and it will be essential even at this time of crisis, where we work for our daily work. And the truth is, I have to say I was surprised by this transactional. We are also going to vote in favour of the compromise, because in the end it is asking Madrid to do what it should do. But, I insist, I wish we didn't have to ask Madrid for a VAT review, and we are going to keep putting it on the table in this Parliament, but I really find it very curious to see a citizen's representative in the Basque Parliament talking to me about VAT when I was playing in Madrid. I'm surprised, honestly, I'm surprised. And I am very surprised, as Mrs Berrojalbiz has rightly said, to bring this debate when she knew perfectly well what the position of all the groups was. I don't mind discussing, we'll discuss every time it takes, but I do think that in your, as I've already done a transactional, yours falls and it is. But yours, your proposal, did have some nuances regarding the proposal of the People's Party presented at the Congress of Deputies. I had the shade that your group there, because it's because you have a mess, your group there, Citizens, had put on the table. But it turns out that in Madrid the People's Party voted against the Citizens' proposal, and here the People's Party-Citizens presents us with a proposal similar to that of the PP, with nuances, as Mrs Berrojalbiz had said, adding "whatever is along the pandemic," let's say. Well, those are his things, his questions, just as they have not yet fully synchronized what his groups present in Madrid and what they later present here. We are clear that we will continue to defend the interests of Basques and Basques in the Congress of Deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Passing the answers, the Basque Groups of Popular-Ciudados, from there, Mr. Gordillo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u106	...the president. Well, thank you very much to all the groups for this debate. Questions have arisen that the truth that I believe would deserve almost a monographic debate, which I undertake to continue at another time. But, look, I think today was also a day to claim this sector, to claim particularly this sector, the hairdressing sector and also the aesthetic services. And I thank you, I would like to thank all the groups here who, despite the differences, are finally voting in favour of this initiative. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u107	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Anybody want to take the word? We'll end our discussion, we'll vote for the half-directional amendments signed by the Basque Populara Ciudadans, Basque Socialists and Euzébertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly are 43; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 73; the opponents are 0; abstaining, 1; white, 0.1,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-22.u108	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. The meeting ended at seventeen in the afternoon.
