ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the entire Union. I want you to know that 32 lords and ladies have already adopted the vote. First point in theme list: "Mutation, introduced by Erasitz de Egillaz, Ramos EHGGDS, concerning the difficulties and difficulties of the young in their access to a decent apartment. Discipline and final resolution. The time for the proposed team, Mrs. Saez de Egiliz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u1	Congressmans, Congressman, thank you. Today we are to discuss a consequence of an interpelation. So we have a chance to discuss a proposal tonight. The following is not every proposition, and therefore only two scenarios can be predicted after the discussion of today. On the one hand, the young man's position in the centre will give him a chance to give him a quantum leap, which young people will understand and will be appreciated; and secondly, a stage where eternal politics will leave eternals behind. This may be a demonstration of a political class which the young must not understand and consume at the first stage of public politics. We know this is not a simple proposition. We propose a pilot to set up a basic income for early 18 and 23 years, which will be agreed with the young, which will be discussed with the agents, collective and young individuals. We know that the hitherto public policies require modification, and that is why we have brought in a proposition of this kind, which has long since ceased to be effective, and this may be a leap, even in the design of public policy. But why do we ask a proposition like this for the HUD, Chief Arriola, after the engagement? Because we understand that the policies required by young people must be precise and modern, and that we cannot stay with the housing police, because they start from a very narrow reading of contexts and problems, and give us no opportunity to overcome the commercial problems that young people are living. We can't talk about the pathetic fertility rate of young people and continue applying synopists to the housing policy. Because the process of fertility is not just leaving our parents' houses, because the giving is much more than that. It is a whole process, and at the present day it is necessary for public institutions to suggest and suggest multiple examples of execution, and to be able to live. When we talk of young men's giving, we must speak of the control of their lives; we must necessarily discuss the autonomy and determination which they require to build their projects, and to carry forward their decisions, because we wish to govern our lives, without depending on the arbitrary decisions of others. Today, kids, we're covering the holes in the system. When youth is everywhere praised, as we are at the point of this system of consumption, they wish to persuade us that everything is at our disposal, without any decision at all concerning what is at our disposal. What can a young man decide on his own? This system has made us dependent on a system of economics, which has no choice but to serve our parents, to offer to the young pretors, without our opinion, a model of education. You have made us believe that we must bear the mischiefs, as well as our youth, that predominance will be a trap. We'll be able to move on somehow. But there is another point of view behind it, and it is understood that those who support the family mattress will live, and that the rest of them will have to survive the trash contract. But we do not admit that our future cannot be determined or conditioned according to the family and surroundings we are born with, because it is something particular, and is planned by enormous differences in the starting-point of life. We see clearly, moreover, that this system makes waters everywhere. The rich are getting richer every day and the poor are getting poorer. And young people, having nothing, depend on our families, because this model of well-being that is enormously familiar is committed to thinking that children will already be helped by their supposed parents or mothers. For for this system youth, especially youth between the ages of 18 and 23, those who are mostly not employed, are not productive; therefore, they are not subject to rights. We're far from what we were promised, so we were told not to have any work after we were told to learn, and then we were told to stay at home to have no alternatives for leisure and contact, and we were told to wait, that the crisis was momentones, to live in the midst of a constant crisis. And we young men have seen that in this system there is no place for us, and that we have no opportunity to live our present in a decent manner, and to represent what we would do tomorrow, or what we will do. I was also commenting on the question that from the current policy we think of young people thinking of Peter Pan, as if the present moment did not matter, as if living at 23 years old as when you were 14, was something normal. You tell us "to see, young people, peace and quiet you will grow and you will see what life costs", as if we did not realize what is happening around us and did not have the full capacity to analyze and decide for ourselves. Or the derogatory, macho, and enormously paternalistic comment of "when you're a father, you'll eat eggs." Excuse me? We do not want your eggs, we want to decide what we eat and have the full capacity to do so, without asking permission absolutely from anyone. We're not girls, we're not kids, and we're really tired and exhausted of having to depend on supposedly adult people and institutions that always leave us out of all the decisions that affect us. We have decided to make a proposition of this kind today, because it is necessary to make propositions and to put the focus on propositions that will be changeable. We have brought in one today, a pilot project, which can only be an opportunity, an open one, which we can discuss and consensuate among all. And I'd like to ask you to take an exercise to understand the proposal. He imagined his head at that age, during the year 18-23, and think where you were, where you wanted to get there, what you wanted to be and what it was like. What we propose in detail is a simple pilot project which can be decided by intermediates between 18-23 and above all by young men. We are speaking of setting up the direction of public politics from the root, which is necessarily to be constructed at the present day by a score of other steps and measures. We'll have to develop housing policies, yes, we'll have to set special programmes to end industry, and we'll have to accept a law to put rents on some day. We're talking about putting people in front of the capital. We're talking about placing people's lives in the centre. But why do we want to establish a special measure for people between 18 and 23? Because it's almost impossible to spend the process of fertility at that age, and because it's the first time to prolong it, and because there's also a moment of life. It's 29 years since the Euskal Autonomy Center rate. And a crowd with high rates like this can't normalize this situation. Public institutions cannot continue in the institutional state, knowing that we are in danger of eternalizing this situation. It shows us, too, that the high fertility of fertility, not only is a very disturbing fact, but that it has lasted terribly long enough to leave home, and that the factors that operate on it, are not capable of control by young men. We're talking about getting that control. We're talking about getting control around life, because otherwise there's no process of production. For the time being, we have proposed a basic income between 18 and 23. For in general the institutional indolence which young men suffer is too remarkable for this age. In this age of five we are far more contemptible than in the other stages of youth. We learn or end our studies, or try or begin the first employments of our lives. In spite of the present opportunities, this age is not supported by public institutions. For example, until the year 23, there's no rent available to support incomes. Or the Castile program has clearly shown us that he is a failure in that age. Your correction also shows that instead of giving-population police, you want to focus on the concrete measurements of the apartment. But these are not enough. Gaztelagun's data, for example, speak for themselves. Masterpiece of this coalition government, a wonderful contribution to youth. Propaganda holder, too, the one you gave us on Monday. But that article also commented on the data. And these data clearly reflect Gaztelagun's very limited capacity for emancipation from 18 to 25, as the average age of beneficiaries is 29 and the under 25 is only 8 %. Please explain to me what kind of effectiveness this is, because I really don't get the bills. Don't you say we're young from 12 to 30? How is it possible that a specific housing policy for young people is not valid during half the youth, during the key years in which we supposedly develop and start to live a little adult life? To us the answer is clear: in different stages of life, we need different help and special sizes. He's not a young man's program that's directed to young people. The rate of iteration is just a joke or a program invented to get down a little bit. And we know that a 28-year-old and a 20-year-old need very different needs. It is not possible, for example, to have revenues as a condition, because there are few who have fixed incomes at the age of 18. In our society, in our model of life, it is not customary in our education and culture to leave the house of our fathers in this age, because it is economically impossible and highly difficult to contemplate. Hence, in this period of age, between 18 and 23, we seem to have to pay special attention to the development of other patterns of life. But above all, it's a distraction to begin with. We're in danger of a generation, two or three mortgages right now. And with this proposal, we wanted to put on the table a new possibility of thinking and living the day of the young. From the lives of the young, and from their everyday, we can listen to their reality and place it in the centre of politics. Instead of working for the young people, we have to work with the young, and because the lives of today and tomorrow are at stake. And I've told you before, when you were young enough to represent yourselves, because some of you may have lost your perceptions and passions, not to say passion, perhaps. But with this exercise we'd only get a few nostalgies, because he's not living doesn't know what this is. Therefore, by taking advantage of the situation, I mean to represent themselves to those who have been but a few years past 18 and 23, or who have now had them, or will do them at once. Imagine what it would be like to live with a basic income every month, to have a monthly income guaranteed. Imagine yourselves studying half or higher levels in high school or starting a career or ending inclusis. Imagine what it would be to learn what you want without giving anybody any explanation or justification. In a flat that you'll choose and pay for. Imagine you can say yes or no to a job offer, with all the opportunity and determination to negotiate. Or, with your studies, your minds, your hopes, your hopes, a special project, a co-operative one, that you have the ability to start without any serious danger of drowning in your debt. Imagine that, instead of doing two sous on a week's end or on a holiday, and a work of misery that you don't have, you have room for rest or whatever you want to do: that you have a chance, a chance to stay with your friends, or to be bored. Imagine the child who is at the mercy of your parents, or rather the merchandise which is in the hands of the market, that you have the opportunity to decide over yourself and to be the free and equal citizen who has been left to-day. Imagine in the forest, instead of having this knelt generation that has lived in some way, you will be the person who will be able to support and support one another, the free citizen of the community, and the living life. If we were born to live, we know that what is represented can become reality, that it is possible to corpse it. Therefore, and as history has taught us, we will not despair because we know that young people deserve another future, and that in this near future they are part of a system that wills and necessity will put into the centre.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, Mrs. Larre, representative of the Basque Popular Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u3	Thank you, President. Look, your speech doesn't leave me indifferent, because I've also been 18 years old. And I've also loved and had this feeling of wanting to emancipate myself, of wanting to have everything, of wanting to have a fixed salary, of leaving home soon... I'm 40, and my parents keep ordering a lot; no, I'm not 40, I'll be home soon at 40. I mean, it's a feeling that you're young, that you're still getting older, and that always, even emotionally, we'll depend on our parents. But this is simply a hue. The issue of emancipation in young people is a problem that comes from far behind: we, my generation, had it when we were emancipating in 2008, 2009, 2010, and it was also difficult. Today, youth unemployment between the ages of 16 and 29 – these are data from Eurostat – accounts for 23.9% compared to 10% of the rest. This generates a feeling of impotence today and generated it before, a feeling of depression and uncertainty for a not flattering future. We now add to that unemployment rate the difficulties of finding pandemic work, and of course, what will young people tell us? Well, turn it off and let's go. What future awaits us? But our grandparents came out, we go out and the young people will come out of now, because that force that you have shown here, because it is the strength that young people have to have to keep fighting. But we too have an obligation to encourage our young people, to face with illusion a changing future, which has always been changing, and which generates fears. But it is what has always been; life always generates fears. The future generates fears. Now it's up to us to pull a wire. But the question is: Is it the right way to help them by offering them emancipation by simply being young and not by having skills or developing the maturity we need, simply by emancipating ourselves? I think we have to turn around – when I say turn around, I'm talking 360 degrees – to the support system in Euskadi, to the social rental housing system, so that they work on equity and not on equality. Because equity is important: we must help those who need it in the circumstances that need it and how it needs it, because if injustices and dissatisfaction are not generated. But we recognize the problem, which we have experienced at the time when we were young, not so long ago. The problem is access to housing, social rental housing. Not just being young anymore. It's just that you talked about youth just as a value. Of course, youth is a value. Of course it is a value of strength, of course it is a value of desire, of illusion. But we must reflect with maturity on what the economic situation is. Sometimes you can't give things away for the simple fact of being young for a while. It is up to us to open the melon and restructure the Basque aid system. And it's not about spreading it everywhere, it's about giving momentum to a concrete goal. In the case of young people, to be supported and enchanted in the effort to achieve the development of their lives. So that they will settle here, and not go the talent to other countries, and that they believe here their families, that they have children and that we can reverse the population pyramid and have a hopeful future. We are not going to support his initiative, Bildu's motion, which has very good intentions, but we understand that it is bread for today and hunger for tomorrow, because it simply speaks of a pilot project. But, pilot, for what? What's your future? What do we want to do with that project? What do we want it to drift into? Besides, I'm going to say one thing that's very happy and very used, it's about giving the cane and not the fish. And we can't stop listening to the voices of young people, of course not. It's clear to us that they need a boost, but let's get moving. We reform the aid structure of the Basque Country and generate impulses, not profiles of people engaged in chronification in the aid system. I can only say that I understand the problem of young people. We understand from here the impulse that young people have. But, look, when you fly, you can fall. And one does not arrive from pigeon to pigeon overnight: one has to make a tour. And that tour is growing over the years. That's why we say, "When you're older, you'll realize that it wasn't that bad, that you're going to get what you want if you want, you want to strive." Therefore, it is not a point aid, but it is an impetus with a specific objective for the future, for a better society of the future, with adequate jobs – as has been said before – and with adequate wages that will enable the development of an adequate and just life for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Together the representative of the Podemos-IU team, Mr MartínezIón, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u5	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. As I am speaking right now, hundreds of workers have just left Aiaraldea on their way to Gasteiz and will arrive in this Parliament tomorrow. They are workers of Tubacex who will come to the door of this Parliament tomorrow, and I hope – I take advantage of this rostrum – that we will receive them as citizens of first class who are, as representatives of the working class who are, and not with a police device that will at all cover the dignity of a staff that has been fighting for hundreds of days. It's about the youth's charity in the introduction. In order to work in an efficient manner, the young must be conducted in indirect practice. We live in a social state of extreme variability, and, moreover, in a moment's confidence in the future. What we need, therefore, is to make certain public powers, to give certainty. When we talk about the situation of youth we can talk about material reality. Obviously, this material reality shapes the personal situation, the mental situation and the welfare situation. Jakin badakigu arazoa ez of the COVID-19arekin came out, askoz antzinakoagoa da. The problem is prior to COVID. However, the study of the Pfizer and FAD Foundation on the social situation tells us: "We are surprised that the most widespread emotion that young people say they felt during the confinement – 85% of respondents – is the concern for the future, ahead of the boredom or stress of the moment." And the basic concerns are the studies and work in 41% of the young people in this study. However, family or partner relationships were only cause for stress for one in four. Etorkizunarekiko beldurra eta kezka handia krisi ekonomikoren aurrean. Our model of Mediterranean well-being, where the family is so important, will continue to remain – it has been mentioned – but that mattress – you know and the data are on the table – is becoming thinner and thinner. Eta datuak aztertzen baldin baditugu, erradiographyk rarakala handia erakusten digu. 40% of young people working in Euskadi are afraid of losing their jobs. 55% think that it is not going to work on its own, on what it has formed. 70% of contracts for children under 35 are temporary, compared to 31% of the general population. If precariousness is vital and general in society, it is especially so in the young working class. A young working class that also has names and surnames. It has a young name, but it has the surnames of a woman and a migrant. And this means that if the ideal age for emancipation is 24, and the European average is 26, in Euskadi it is 30 years, six years of difference between the ideal and the real situation. And that's an absolute drama in the life period probably more alive than a person has. Recently, moreover, the concept of freedom is being overly manipulated. Freedom is, among other things, the possibility of being able to choose an autonomous life project, of being able to study on an equal basis, of having access to a labour market with decent rights, wages and conditions, the right to have access to decent housing, which does not mean, as in Euskadi for young people, allocating more than 55% of the income to payment for it. Therefore, freedom is material conditions of work and housing and these conditions are present and future or guaranteed. There is no magic solution, much less in this capitalist system, but some things can be done. Strengthening public services, especially for young people, such as public education, is essential. It is essential to continue work in order to put an end to the precariousness of the labour market, to put an end once and for all to the latest labour reforms and their most damaging aspects. It is essential to continue with recognition, such as the labour law of riders, who are usually young people. Job recognition will give them rights, a job recognition carried out by the social dialogue led by Minister Yolanda Díaz. It was essential to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate, which depended both on the State and on the Basque Government. And youth employment plans are important, but they are not enough, less so when they hide situations of high precariousness in many cases. But, moreover, it is essential to strengthen public housing policy, which we have here in Euskadi, to strengthen the budget of the department, to approve, once and for all, the decrees that are pending, to build and rehabilitate more public rental housing, to increase the amounts of benefits, as from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we demand in the process of the budgets – this plenary voted against recently – and also to improve Gaztelagun. We will have an initiative in a few weeks' time to discuss this; some of the measures announced by the Councilman last week are in that direction and we will try to strengthen them. He said in the response to the inquiry that it is important to make consistent and coherent policy. And we say we agree, but we also lack more ambition and budget, and you know that you can count on our group for that. But in housing policy there is one thing that is fundamental, in addition to all this that we are talking about. Let me insist: it is necessary to regulate the prices of the private rental market. Housing will be a market asset, as Minister Ábalos said, but it is also a right, as the Constitution says and as the Housing Act says, and the satisfaction of rights should always be above any other consideration. This measure, the regulation of rental prices, has been launched in many countries of Europe and is demonstrating – along with other policies, just like here, I want to make it clear again – that it contains prices immediately. It's not a star measure, it's one more, but one of the most important. It is a measure that is absolutely essential for that which we all use so much to leave no one behind. Nine out of ten young people agree with this view in the Injuve public consultation on the State Plan of the 2030 Agenda, nine out of ten young people were supporting the regulation of private rental market prices. Along with these we have described, there is a whole mix of policies that all groups are certainly working on in the amendments to the Youth Act. But it is also important to be ambitious and it is also important to be innovative. Horrexegatik, gure baietza emango diogo mozioari, eta gure baietza emango diogo, noski, erdibidetu dugun akordioari. It is important to make progress in public policies. In that sense, an income of emancipation, a pilot project, which is what we are talking about today, can be a good tool to equip young people with a worthy future. We believe that it can be an important policy and that it can be a further stimulus to ensure the well-being of people, young people in this case. It may be a proper measure of running a basic income project for the production of early 18-23 years, and therefore it is a pilot's project. In order to add to us, we made propositions of this kind, because the process must be well made. The design of this pilot, at least in three areas, must be made to work in three countries, but it must likewise be enabled that the diversity of young men should be included in this project, because young people are not a whole because they are not a genus, a genus, a race, a race, a origin, or a migration, is conditioned by the states of all the young. That's why this project should consider all these realities. And we also assume that our public university should continue, and the results of that pilot project, the results of that pilot, the Eucomunics, the Esunctians, the Forum, the local administrations, the juveniles, and the organized civil society would have to be examined by the civil society. This process is essential to know if the public policy is useful and efficient. Pilot tests are also part of public policy; Gaztelagun was born this way, to set a close example. In Barcelona City Hall, the B-Mincome project has been launched in this way, not with an income of emancipation, but with a basic income of citizenship, and is currently being evaluated. It is therefore time to strengthen housing policy. From different groups we have brought initiatives in this direction. It is time to regulate rental prices, it is time to put a stop to precariousness, and, in that struggle, all tools are essential. This pilot project can be a good analysis, a good test of innovative policies that will ultimately benefit the quality of life of young people in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u6	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u7	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. I have to admit that, reading the terms of the motion, I have at least some doubt, first of all because it does not define anything beyond the development of a novel program in the form of a basic income for emancipation. It does not go beyond the age – it is curiously only intended for young people between 18 and 23 years old – nothing more: nor under what conditions, nor with what requirements, nothing. Finally, what do you want me to say to you, trusting the policies of the Government to what can be decided at certain assemblies of certain associations of young people and collectives, which will surely be what you would like, does not seem to me to be something truly efficient. Finally, if I may be ironic, the RAE defines youth as "the condition or state of youth" and, in a second sense, "the period of human life immediately preceding maturity". Given this second sense, I can already assure you that there are many supposedly mature people who are not going to stop being Peter Pan in life. The Basque Socialists are very clear that two of the fundamental pillars of youth emancipation are, firstly, housing policies and, secondly, employment policies. In this PSE-PNV coalition government, it is precisely the Socialists who lead these matters in the figures of Vice-Lehendakari Idoia Mendia and of Councillor Arriola, who are here today. And yes, I'm telling you, the socialists are betting on Gaztelagun. Gaztelagun is a pioneer program, this is, and we Socialists put it in motion. Although it is no longer unique, because when something works it tries to copy, and it has already been several autonomous communities that have taken this program as an example. Unlike other communities with closed call and draw, we have an open and continuous call for no young person to compete with another, because that's not a help, that's a lottery, and we want to trust our young people's future to be guaranteed and not fair. Gaztelagun has achieved a multiplier effect in Euskadi. Since its launch, almost twenty Basque municipalities, 19 in particular, have developed their own aid for youth emancipation, and all of them, by chance, with the same maximum amounts of aid as Gaztelagun establishes. This program was born in 2019 with the intention of supporting youth emancipation through financial benefits for the payment of rent. And it arose because we understand that much of the youth was often left out of the social rental system because of having a job, slightly exceeding the required income level or lacking family burdens. The origin of the Gaztelagun programme was precisely to remedy this situation, which we consider to be unfair in all light, helping them to undertake an autonomous life project with specific benefits for three consecutive years. In just two years of life it has already helped more than 2,300 young people who also have other tools to access a home. Gaztelagun has also been one of those programmes evaluated and, as a result, has adjusted its requirements in its first year of life, substantially improving its results. At a particularly difficult juncture as we are experiencing, improvements in Gaztelagun have managed to increase the number of beneficiaries by 127% during 2020. A trend that follows upwards today. On the other hand, it is the wish of this Government to adopt shortly an order of financial measures implementing this year 2021, which, among other issues, will increase the income of housing in all its sections, reaching 765 euros in the three capitals (Bilbao, Donostia and Vitoria-Gasteiz), 750 in the metropolitan areas of Bilbao and Donostia, as well as in the municipalities with more than 10,000 inhabitants, and 665 euros in the rest of the municipalities. The Youth, Emancipation and Housing Need report in Euskadi 2019 points out that the majority of young people who live on rent pay income ranging from €451 to €750 per month, with an average of €615 per month. We are commenting here because there are already several different types of parliamentary initiatives that have been insisting on the maximum income of housing allowed in Gaztelagun, even Mr Martínez mentioned this in his speech. These amounts are not randomly chosen, but are referenced in the EMA, in the Rental Market Statistics, not in the Idealist. It is a tool that provides the real prices of existing leases in each municipality. The last EMA set average contracts of 880 euros in Donostia, 742 in Bilbao and 712 in Gasteiz. Obviously, there are neighborhoods that are above those stockings and others that are below. Nor is the amount of aid casual. At a higher level, it coincides with that for the supplementary housing benefit and the economic housing benefit, EUR 250 per month for the year 2021. In other words, it is consistent with the rest of the support provided by the Basque Government for the payment of housing rents. And it seems logical that this is the case, that one or a young person should be given equal, but not greater, assistance than those received by persons with the subjective right to recognized housing. From the year 2022 it will be a permanent grant line, associated and linked coherently to the set of rental benefits. But we can't just talk about Gaztelagun. Not everything is left in Gaztelagun. We can also mention other actions related to the field of housing aimed at enabling and facilitating the emancipation of young people and young women in Euskadi, such as the establishment of a specific quota of sheltered housing for young people, the promotion of innovative collaborative housing projects and the development of other formulas and measures aimed at facilitating youth rental. But, as I said, this also has to be accompanied by the need to implement efficient employment policies. The Socialists, of course, are betting on youth employment. It is demonstrated, for example, by the Reactivate programme to unite businesses and young people, a plan that was presented just a month ago and to which the Department of Labour and Employment is going to devote an important effort, allowing them a professional experience to those who do not have it. This project will make it easier for 200 young people this year to acquire the professional experience they need to join a labour market that demands it. React, for example, is designed for those who, despite their training, cannot believe experience. It is this loop that must be broken, because it is needed by those who seek employment, but also by those companies that seek people who are prepared to face the great challenges ahead. It is also a question of ensuring that this employment is of quality, no doubt, because stability is one of the conditions for quality. And that's the big Achilles heel we have on youth unemployment. This is a programme in addition to those already in place in the field of youth employment. Nor does the policy of this Government remain solely and exclusively in this programme that it has just presented. Other programmes, other policies, aim at adapting training to labour demand, strengthening dual training policies, innovation in employment training, improving instruments for access to first employment, quality control and durability of young people's contracts, encouraging the recruitment of experienced young people, strengthening training grants, promoting opportunities in the labour market in strategic sectors for Euskadi, improving training for activation, encouraging entrepreneurship for projects designed for young people, specific policies for the employment of young people at risk of exclusion... In short, there is a very broad amalgamation of policies that seek to eliminate youth unemployment and also enable, by taking that step, those young people and those young people to be emancipated. As you can see, the Socialists do not propose, we do. No need for guardianship, on its own initiative. That is our commitment: to activate efficient policies for Basque youth, policies that not only facilitate emancipation, but their personal development, far beyond basic incomes, building a country, society and values, and making our youth an active collective, as it should be, an added value for our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u8	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, Congressman, good day to all of you. To be able to get a decent apartment. That's one of the worries that most young Basques have, and at the same time, one of our desires. The COVID pandems are one of the demands that have been left to them in a more serious situation. So it is because COVID pands did not only come to you, but because they have become a difficulty in the young men who have existed before in society, and the Panademies themselves have increased. One of the young Basques is a 30-year-old epercipino, which is a desired gigainina of 24. It is clear that in this reality certain factors are produced by the instability of the work, and the price of the apartment, among others. Therefore, taking into account, as I said, that the difficulties for youth emancipation are not a problem strictly derived from the COVID, but that what the pandemic has done is to maximize these difficulties for all vulnerable groups – said in passing, not only for young people – we believe that structural and transversal solutions should be sought in the long term, combining them with others in the short and medium term, without making young people believe that there are magic and immediate formulas to solve practically everything. El Gobierno Vasco, conscente del minoria existiente juvenil, ya titene previstas distindas para favorcer de la Juventud a una vivenda digna y satisfied. Yes, it's true that the young people have an entrance to a decent apartment in this government. It is a strong commitment to the government program, that is to say, the 38th engagement: "opportunities of access to the Royal House for the young ones." There are five axes of action, integrated into the 2020-2024 government programme, for access to housing for young people. Actions that must necessarily be carried out in collaboration with the Youth Area of the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy, and I believe it is important at least to remember what are: to develop a special youth housing programme; to establish a preferential reserve of sheltered housing under rental arrangements; to implement innovative alternatives for access to youth housing, such as cohousing, shared-floor programmes and rents with an option to purchase; to guide accommodation facilities for young people and to address pilot projects to facilitate youth housing such as transfer cooperatives; eta, azkenik, –guk gure erdibidekoan ezarri dogun moduan– Gaztelagun indartzea programme, bertara sartzeko baldintzak gehiago malguz. Do you think all this is an institutional neglect? As you know, it was a pilot of a project that had been carried from 2019 since the New Year's program, at first, for three years. We would have them grow stronger and more spontaneous. Ondino hasn't come to his end, and he's been helping about 2,300 young men to pay rent in a couple of years. This may be very grateful for the young, not just the initiative that comes from you. This was born because you're near the mill, and because you're aware, as Mr. Aduza said, not only young people who didn't work, because the best of them stayed out of their rental system for a short time. He had to answer to the young people who were in this situation for food and it was done like that. After the evacuins had been done, and the young men were in a difficult situation to remain out of sight during the duration of this project. That's close to society. That's the answer to real needs. That's self-critic. When something, after the evaluations, operates not as it would, but as it were, in a different manner, to work in motion, to improve, and to continue. That helped you up with the numbers from the arrival of the Young Friend. Therefore, in our middle course, as Mr. Aundezia has said, we demand the strength of this program for further flexibility under the circumstances of entering it. After the motion of the proposed team, it is your proposition, as you say, to establish a basic income for the population of the year 18-23. What about over 24? The young man's program opens out to the young men from 18 to 35 years old, as I'm told, because one of the younger Basques is in 30 years. And that's the reality of living. We've got to work around it, about this reality, to take the initiative to get off that average age, but if now we're asking you to pay for minuto yresultados, you're supposed to say that you're doing the doge of the young people for 30 years. So among other things, I don't see any sense of closing that horquilla up for 23 years, leaving it beyond that. I, for instance, am 30 years old, and I'm out of here. But, for example, it's the age of me to be able to get into the Young Fellow's program. So, what's more realistic is at first clear. I am therefore not to be much longer, for Mr. Aduza himself has shown you the possible reasons for this fundamental income of which you propose, and I am perfectly satisfied with his reflection. As for us, we don't talk about the proposition he saw, we've got a program that we're getting stronger, that we're the most universal, but that we've been taking advantage of all the work we've done for us so far. In addition, as I have already mentioned, different areas of action exist in the government programme, apart from the Gaztelagun programme, to facilitate youth access to housing. I believe that the initiatives of the Basque Government are pioneering and will help to ensure that young people can obtain decent housing and be able to live in. So we are going to defend our middle course by saying that the Dogulmate program is a project that we believe works in, and because we think we should take advantage of all the work we've done so we can strengthen this program and expand the conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. Passing on the answers, Mrs Saez de Egeilaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u11	Chief, thank you. It's clear we're not here to solve the problem with a bacteria. We just put an opportunity and a proposition on the table. The body and vitals of young people are the ones we've been trying to get in the middle of. And what you've done to us is, a kind of inclulus infantilism and paternalism, give us conflicting arguments. I understand you can object to this proposal. I understand that in the course you've been following, in the housing police, and in the stage police, in general, and in the prospect of reading young people, it's understandable of your refusal this evening. But the point is, we wanted to put another chance here on the table. A further modern proposition, which unites with a controversy that may be in society, may agree with the discussions of the fundamental revenue. What we wanted is, beyond a preparation, that problem and reality which young people have nowadays, see what chance they have to set up something else. Above all, as I have said before, that this star-signed program does not yield its fruit just at that age. You've done the usual to me, the where are you going? Gaztelagun I bring, which you always do in housing and emancipation policies, because the solutions to all problems seem to be in Gaztelagun. But this is a benefit or a program that will never be universal. You pose it for 2,500 people, at most. And we've already said that there are very few Scouts and benefits below 25 years, and it's located at 8%. And this means that specialized reality lives with those young intermediates between 18-23. We could even put it in 25, but we saw 23, because it seems to us that in the course of 23, there are other rights to confess, and a greater number of other public institutions about these other rights. That's why we put him in 23 years. On the other hand, we see the effect of this bureaucracy which young people require. I wanted to ask you, too, a few years ago. And I didn't, because I didn't understand, because I didn't know where to start. Hence we see that, considering the reality of these young men and their conditions, something else must be put into action for them. Magic formulas, no. We know they don't exist. That is why we have brought, precisely, a pilot project which is basically to put on the table a future project that we can carry out, in some respects or in some spaces, and from which we will draw conclusions, and we will see if it is effective no. If the consequences which result after this pilot's project are few or negative, in the eyes of these young people, our proposal is of no value. That's clear. But the only thing that we show is that in the fines we've done so far, those institutions we've made, the bodies that have been placed in the centre have been others. If the young man's program is applied during 18-35, i.e. if applied at a large period of age, it is not possible to think that a person with 35 years old and 33 years old should have much the same needs as an 18 years old. That's why we're talking about another step, another jump, something else. Let's go check out the possibilities. To plan a basic income during the year 18-23 is an opportunity to say to these people: "Get in the centre, and you can decide what you want to do tomorrow. And let us build with you this future reality, that people of the future." Because at the present day they are entirely excluded from those areas which are made up of decisions, because at the age of 18-23 they can't be absolutely determined around your life. And we wanted to say more than one preparation this evening. Ademandás, decíais que Castile puede ille a soucionar todos los problemas. "Pero se v vu clamente que no." The police, the young people are asking for other options, they need other offers. And when it is hard to face the everyday, we must take hold of what we have got, but above all, we must come to this future plan. The basic income won't be the purpose, it's not the end. But it's a possibility that we're going to build this crowd we're going to build, never to leave people behind. That's why we made today's proposal. And we think, in some ways, you've lost another chance. And it was no wonder he had answered, but it was a pity to turn his back on the young men like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Basque Popular Group-Ciudad, Mrs. Larre from there is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u13	Here we have talked about freedom and opportunities, that the great freedom and great opportunity that young people can have is to have an adequate job, that leads them to be able to get a home or a rent; it can be within the social housing that is created, that is being created for young people. But not a basic income, a coffee for everyone. The great opportunity we have to try to work for young people is that they can have the opportunity and the freedom to find work in an appropriate labour market, so that young people can be emancipated in the right conditions to create a flattering future of life, that is, a future of life in order to be able to form their family here. Really, that we are not at all in the concept of a coffee for all, a basic income for all to help them to emancipate themselves, but we will try to work at the bottom of the issue. And the bottom line is that there is no labour market for young people, because we also have to recognize that, of course, young people say, "No, we don't have a fixed job for life." It's just that when you start, you have to work and work a future fixed job. You do not start with a fixed job, you start with a demonstration of ability and effort and with a demonstration of the knowledge acquired in the studies or in what you wanted to do. You're focusing on some help for emancipation, and I think it's another idea. There are programmes that need to be improved, but the idea is not to give everyone coffee so that young people can be emancipated, but to find a quality of life and a quality of work so that they can do it in better conditions. For those who do not get to that are the Gaztelagun programs, there are other kinds of programs that can help, but throughout life, not only of youth, but throughout life.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Together, the representative of the Podemos-IU must not take the word. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u15	Thank you, ma'am. Look, Gaztelagun's goal is to respond to the entire demand that must meet the conditions, the requirements that are required. In addition, the Basque Government discriminates positively against young people in the payment of rent. And that is a concrete policy. That is not that Gaztelagun brings it, it is that they are concrete policies that favor the emancipation of Basques and Basques. I have a series of questions. You have launched something here, so that it is defined by certain associations, by certain collectives, without concrete action. Why from 18 to 23 years old? What data do you have that tells you that young people between the ages of 18 and 23 have very high levels of desire for emancipation, so as not to extend it – I know – from 18 to 28, or to 30 years? Why from 18 to 23? Why a basic income? Why not policies that generate other kinds of synergies? Why not bet on personal development with policies that favour, improve training, employment, housing? And why yes through a rent? Why rent? That is the question: why should an income and why not other specific policies that make it possible for these young people and young people to be emancipated, be better developed personally? Why not? That is doing proactive policies for the benefit of young people, not giving them a basic income. Why a basic income? Why a universal income for any young person, without establishing any kind of condition, any kind of requirement? Why not, for example, and even if you may feel paternalistic, why not depending on the income of your parents? Where is equity? Where's justice? Why are there young people who have a comfortable life, who can access that income, and not other people, other young people who have real needs? Why don't you set priorities? Why a universal basic income for any young person? Why? That's my question. Where is equity, where is justice? Where is the establishment of a number of requirements that can make this income something fair? Why do you bring something like this here, to fly, to boat soon, something that just occurred to you, saying you defend it a series of associations? Bring a concrete proposal. Work it on. We will always be willing to negotiate it, to talk about it. Anyway, but bring something concrete. Do not say: "A universal income for any young person, so that he can emancipate, from 18 to 23 years old." It's something that, in short, I don't think has either feet or head. I believe that there are many issues here that can be defined, that can be established, that can be discussed. Finally, bringing such an initiative, without working at all, seems to me, at least, unserious. You tell us, "Where are you going, Gaztelagun I bring." Of course, we Socialists are proud of Gaztelagun, because it has been a pioneering initiative, not the one you propose. By the way, there was a government in Spain, led by a gentleman named José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, who already put something similar. The political situation in this country caused a gentleman named Mariano Rajoy to make it fall. There was already something similar, which is not the same as what you propose. Something like that, I wouldn't even dare say it. Not even similar. But we are committed to implementing concrete policies. We don't bring apples or Gaztelagun. We have, as I have mentioned, more than 20 specific policies that promote youth employment, especially the development of young people in this country, so that they can contribute to this society. But above all, for this society to give them the opportunity to develop personally in this country, in the land that has seen them born. That is to do politics, and not bring here distractions in the form of basic, undefined rents, which say absolutely nothing but give you the opportunity to come here to give certain sotromas, which I believe do not bring anything, not even to the debate itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u16	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mrs. Ipiñazar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u17	Yes, thank you, barriro bet, ma'am. Well, when the moxie introduced you, you'd say you wouldn't appreciate the answer when you got it in the interchino when you got it on March 26th, 2021. You see what I'm saying, I'm not going to do enough for you, but it's bardin on the 26th of March or today, April 15th. It's the same with all the explanations that they have in common, that's not enough. Always tell them that the conditions of the Castile program were not all young people. They asked us to open these terms, as far as possible from the young programs, because, as you may say, they have made changes in the life of the young friend of Castile, because they have made changes to the improvement, because they have made changes to the young people, because they have come to see them. Let it be so, that we are anxious to bend these conditions, and that it may not be thought sufficient. In the first place, with five different initiatives in the government program, the young people have to give us, besides the subsidies of other ways, the cooing or the use-processing cooing, or the cooing co-operatives. That's be gichi. I don't know what they're surprised at; It's all right, you know, when you're out of your way, you're the one that decides in the Lake's offices, you're our misery. Well, you should have read and listened to a lot of things like that. But when you find the solutions, when you get the solutions, when you put them on the table, it starts and that's not enough. We're going for the rest of the time, aren't we? You know, you're asking me to eat a lot of music, you black-black. Of course, in a number of villages of the Dotiers, you've got enough bardage for the housing. It's not enough in Ham, but when EH meets in the mayor's office, then it does. Then they're effective social policies, but the hamen is not enough. I mean, I'm really a member of my teammate, Mr. Granaris, so I'm telling you in a way that I don't know what to do, but I don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Ipiñazar. End of discussion, we're gonna vote for EH Collect and together the middle-direction signed by the Podemos-IU teams. We can vote. [[Berber]] Who's in trouble? Well, we'll take out our tickets and re-enter them. We'll make another try, and if it doesn't leave... The colours, as we see, did not recognize him either. Louisja, don't you even have the light on? Light, yes. Well, let's try. Martíne, you're good too, aren't you? Yeah. Well, we'll vote again. We can vote. We'll check it out, but we'll keep going. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 27; the opposites 47; abstaining, 0; white; 0,0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u19	So it's not accepted. And we'll add your vote to it. Next up, we're going to vote for the popular Basque Group-Ciudadnanos' full correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters 7; the opponents are 67; abstaining, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u20	So it's not accepted. And finally, we vote for the Eucabertians and the Sociialists of Basque Socialists in full-line correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 40; the contrary is 22; the abstations are 12. white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u21	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "Motion, introduced together by the parliamentary members of the Podemos-IU, Jon Hernández Hidalgo, II. Ninety times the Republic was declared. about the anniversary. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn, Mr. Hernandez, to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u22	Good morning, congressmen. Yesterday, April 14, Republic Day, in a multitude of cities in Euskadi, the 90th anniversary of the proclamation of the Second Republic was celebrated: Bilbo, Gasteiz, Donostia, Sestao, Barakaldo, Irun, Errenteria, Andoain, Zumarraga, Santurtzi, Arrasate or, of course, Eibar. Yesterday II We celebrated the 90th anniversary of the Republic. II. The Republic was the first democratic regime we've ever lived in our own country. He brought important social, economic, and democratic progress to the community and to the workers. Yesterday, in our peoples, the fundamental role played by the Second Republic in the democratic history of our country was recognized. The role of being the first democratic regime that our people have known; the role of being the regime that modernized a backward, reactionary and classist country, which so far lived under a Bourbon monarchy, corrupt, lapsed and decrepit. We believe that it is a chance for those who defended democracy and fought for democratic liberties in dictatorship. Because yesterday the sacrifice and the lives of those who defended the Republic against which the fascist beast was raised in 1936 were also defended, as a prelude to what the whole of Europe would then suffer. Women and men who yesterday demanded a society identified with the values of freedom, equality, human rights and social justice, values and principles that were first implemented in our country with the democratic regime of the Second Republic and not with another. Beyond some statements, following the inquiry I made to the Lehendakari, the Basque Government has not made an explicit recognition of this issue. Two weeks ago, when he questioned the Lehendakari, he urged the Basque Government to take concrete actions and actions, but it seems that the request has fallen into a broken bag. The Basque Government does not seem willing to highlight the important role of the Second Republic through any concrete action on its 90th anniversary. It's bad news. The Basque Government has not lived up to the 90th anniversary of the proclamation of the Second Republic. It is true that yesterday the Lehendakari expressed in a brief note the intention of his Government to join in a possible celebration or declaration of recognition by this Parliament of the role of that Republic. Unfortunately, and in a contradictory way, it is precisely the party of the lehendakari itself, the Basque Nationalist Party, one of the actors who today seems to make it impossible for this recognition of the value of the Second Republic to go forward in this Parliament, and we deeply regret it. Among those who yesterday recognized the role of the Second Republic are Basques and Basques who yearn for the third republic, but also many of those who aspire to Euskadi exercising the right of self-determination or even many of those who want an independent Basque republic. Also, among those who yesterday recognized the role of the Second Republic are many and many of those who today do not openly question the monarchic regime in which we live today. People with four different political ideas who claim, despite these differences, the democratic and historical significance of the Second Republic and the need not to forget it, and who therefore defend the importance of recognizing the role of the Second Republic and those who defended it. Four different political ideas that coincide roughly with the approaches of the four forces that we received most popular support in the last Basque elections. On that basis, and from the knowledge of our differences as to what the democratic future of our country must be, from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we have brought a motion for the Basque Parliament to give dignity to the history of our people and to recognize the importance of the Second Republic as the first democratic regime our country has experienced. Unfortunately, sectarianism has been imposed and the two major groups in the House are going to prevent this Parliament from making the first-class public recognition that the Second Republic and those who defended it deserve. Today, I was willing to confront and fight with the People's Party and Vox, forces that will never recognize the first democratic model that existed in their country, however Spanish they think they are, but we did not need or need their votes for this Parliament to recognize the role that the Second Republic has in the democratic history of our people. Unfortunately, it was the Basque Nationalist Party and Euskal Herria Bildu who closed the door to the recognition and enhancement of the Second Republic by the Basque Parliament on the 90th anniversary of its proclamation, which, as you know, had Basque leadership, with Eibar at the head of the municipalities that recognized it. The argument or, rather, the subterfuge used has been to put its own model, not the model of others, something that would be legitimate, from my point of view, based on the correlation of forces, if my group had brought an initiative talking about our model, the third republic; what they have done has been to put its model before the recognition of the role played by a republic that no longer exists, because it was annihilated by fascist violence, precisely because it was what we should recognize: a democratic and legitimate regime that broke with the historical backwardness imposed in our country by abject oligarchies sustained in a corrupt and despotic monarchy. I will never ask you to give up your political postulates, among other things, because I will never give up my own and I will defend the third republic until its proclamation or until my last breath. But recognition of the Second Republic does not imply the renunciation of any of the desires and approaches of the four majority forces of this House; recognition of the Second Republic means doing justice to our history. And today I have to regret that the Basque Nationalist Party and Euskal Herria Bildu have decided to turn their backs on the history of the Basque people, in which the Second Republic plays a transcendental role and a turning point. With the Second Republic came for the first time rights for workers, rights for women, public education, social protection; culture ceased to be a privilege and reached the masses for the first time. A long list of progress, including the first Basque Statute and the first Basque Government in our history. And all this in a Republic that hardly had time to flourish, because the coup and the lifting of the reaction occurred when the young Republic had barely five years of existence. In little more than a parliamentary term, the country's changes were radical and radically positive, especially if we look at the short period of time we are talking about. To not acknowledge this is to fail in our history, not to acknowledge this is to turn our history away, and the Basque Parliament should not turn its back on the history of our people. Not making this recognition is also failing to remember thousands of women and men who did not hesitate to play their lives to try to stop the illegal and illegitimate uprising that took place against the Republic. Thousands of them paid for it with their lives, with torture on their skin, with their bones frozen in cold prisons and concentration camps, with persecution and humiliation. I know him very well, because in the ranks of my party, the Communist Party, it was hundreds of thousands who suffered the massacre and persecution for defending the Second Republic, for defending the Statute, for defending the Basque Government, for defending democracy against dictatorship during 40 years of war, prisons, exile and repression. And the Second Republic was also not the ideal model of my comrades in the 1930s, nor is it today. I belong to a party that aspires to socialism and communism, and the Second Republic was not that, but they defended democratic legality and those principles and values, and they also did so with people belonging to other political currents from which today these four forces to which I referred are and are heirs and heirs. Those of us who have now emerged from pits in our mountains would have liked to know that today, 90 years later, a Basque Parliament that they did not come to know acknowledgment of the republican regime. We will continue to fight for the third republic, but we are not willing to forget. We are not prepared to forget the Second Republic and what it meant for our people, and we are not, because it would be an injustice to the past, but, above all, a serious democratic error, because today, after a long time, we are looking back at the far right and at fascism in the institutions of the whole State and also in the institutions of the Basque Country. And it is a grave mistake that they do not find us clearly united against their postulates and in the recognition of that Republic on which they pour their lies to delegitimize it before public opinion since 1939. That the Basque Parliament celebrates the 90th anniversary of the Second Republic with an explicit recognition of it through a motion is a first-class democratic memory exercise for this country. Failure to do so implies, in our opinion, an exercise in memory which, we insist, is unjust, unjust with our dead and unjust with our history. From our group we will honour the memory of the Second Republic with our votes, but also with the votes of all those who want today, after listening to us, to share a first-class institutional recognition of the Second Republic, on which I also know that the different groups have their nuances. The Basque Republicans know they can count on us, with Elkarrekin Podemos and United Left, to defend the democratic memory of our people. I think that we can hardly agree on the democratic future of Euskadi, if we are not even able to recognize together the value of the Second Republic in our democratic history. We do not give up the Third Republic, but we do not forget the Second Republic. That is why today I want to make our message of the Basque Communists to the fascist uprising against the republic, expressed in the mouth of Jesus Larrañaga Goierri, shot in 1942: "Gora Euskadi Askatuta, live free Spain, gora Errepublika!".
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u23	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, Mr. Barrio, representing the popular group of Basques, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u24	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor, ladies and gentlemen. Well, Mr Hernández, I am not going to criticize your unwavering adherence to the Second Republic, your idealisation, the myth with which you treat the Second Republic. A model in which no one believed, Mr Hernández, a model in which no one believed, and which some wanted to disembowel from within, as their own political party at the time. That is, that I prefer, without any doubt, if you give me the opportunity to do so, to appreciate the democratic regime we enjoy now and that, in comparison with what you propose to us, it stimulates my group, the People-Citizens Group, much more as citizens, as democrats, as people, and with the experience we have also had in this regime that we live in. I could, of course, appreciate some of the issues that then happened more closely with the Second Republic and its effects than with the 1931 Constitution itself, but I would, of course, and it is absolutely impossible to exalt a nine-year regime with so much confusion, with so much convulsion, with so much insecurity, with internal coups of state, with political, electoral and institutional misconceptions, with a clamorous political weakness in all its moments and in all its phases and in all its governments. That is why our whole amendment wants to be something cooler than that part of history, which had many lights, but most of them were shadows. That is why, in our whole amendment, in a different sense, we have compared and had to claim what has truly served our freedoms in these 43 years. 43 years of freedom, development, progress, which, compared to those nine years, certainly do not stand a comparison. Our amendment in its entirety says that the Basque Parliament demands the values of democracy, defence of freedoms, equality, justice, respect for human rights and citizens, as well as the value of the social and democratic rule of law, which is unprecedented in the Spanish Constitution of 1978, as a result of the political evolution of the history of Spain and all its precedents in favour of democracy. Some may be installed there, but the Constitution of 78 truly culminated in a process in which little had to be said about what had been experienced in the Second Republic. I have no doubt that the evolution of this regime, which we now have, that of the 78th Constitution, will not result in what you are predicting; it will result in its improvement, its definitive inclusion in important projects, its development, the progress in policies of all kinds, the definitive European Union which also preserves that capacity which at the moment enhances and strengthens us. Of course, that is what will develop this regime in which we live. The evolution of the Second Republic resulted in internal coups d'état, a civil war and then a dictatorship. What's the question, Mr. Hernández? What did it do so badly to divide Spanish society in half in such a lethal way? That's what you'd have to ask yourself. I would like to use my intervention on this point to assess, to highlight the regime of freedoms that Spain has enjoyed since the adoption of the 1978 Constitution, something which did not happen with the Second Republic at all. And I don't want to downplay our story. I do not want to underestimate the Constitution of 31, even the Second Republic, but compared to the period of development and peace that Spain has lived since the establishment of the constitutional monarchy in 78, 43 years ago, that Republic was in the light of years to guarantee levels of economic, social and institutional and civic development as those that we have provided for in the current political regime, in the constitutional monarchy, with the adoption of the Constitution of 78. The Republic was not able to prevent, to neutralize a coup d'état. He couldn't. The Constitution of 78 was able to prevent, neutralize a coup d'état and recover much more vigorously. And that's what most of us here have experienced. What has been achieved by the Republic, Mr Hernández, has multiplied by 1,000 in terms of democracy and institutional development with the regime, with the 1978 Constitution and with the constitutional monarchy we live in. The Republic could only produce a disturbing process of decomposition of coexistence in the lands of Spain. This was produced by the governments of the Second Republic: weakening, zozobra, economic crisis, institutional crisis, violence, coups d'état, decomposition of parties, action of one party against another. Some wanted to bring the model of the soviet to Spain. Some of his people vaunted him: they wanted to remove Azaña to put the model of the soviet, the dictatorship of the proletariat. Imagine what example, what political drift, what ideological foundation all this had. Regrettably, political enragement and hatred in the Second Republic, the result of political ineptitudes and attitudes hostile to coexistence, found ground paid for by the various republican governments, unable to give anything to society, unable to give society a calm government, hopes for development and democratic calm, unable to promote an effective system of freedoms and coexistence. They failed and failed in the end, too, being unable to neutralize, to prevent, to prevent the brothers from entering a fratricidal war. They were unable to do it. In that sense, it was also a lesson in history from which we have learned, of course: we have learned that this can never be repeated again. I think we have the limbs, that we have the perfect scaffolding so that that doesn't happen again. That is why my group, Mr Hernández, is more concerned with looking forward to: devoting our time to understanding the real problems of the citizens, which are not those of the memory of the Second Republic; resolving ourselves, as far as we can, with our initiatives or helping the executives in the chambers in which we can participate, the real problems of the citizens; helping to change things for good; rather than trying to create conflicts of interpretation of history, as they deal with these issues that you repeatedly bring to us, because if not, it will be the institution of the monarchy or religion. We already know that they have a series of mantras that, of course, serve them ideologically. But that doesn't fix citizens' problems. That is to say, in this sense, we will concentrate more, my group is more interested in looking forward, in devoting our time to solving the serious problems of the citizens, in understanding that we have a regime of freedoms, of unprecedented democracy, which is the fruit of many parts of our history. Today I do not know if you will fail in your desire to celebrate the Second Republic in this House. You have said that it is possible for groups to prevent what you intend, to celebrate the Republic. But, look, I do not know what will happen at the end of this plenary session, but the same, with your initiative, gets worse, as some amendment seeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u25	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Aguirre, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u26	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. I don't know if you've seen a commercial on TV these days, I don't know if it belongs to a bank or insurance company, but, well, that doesn't matter. An actor appears in this ad, a fairly mature actor, and asks himself what would have happened if he had made a decision or another in his life. And according to every way he could choose, he appears characterised one way or another. What would my life have been like if I'd taken that road? I think it's a question that everyone has ever asked himself, especially as we go on in years. To be honest, it's a difficult question to answer, and dangerous too. In fact, we sometimes appeal to nostalgia to idealize what it might have been. Although it is a question we ask ourselves in personal matters, the same question may be asked in political and historical matters: what would have happened if this or that had been done? 90 of the Spanish Republic. We may even wonder what would happen if the Republic had advanced. If the fascists hadn't made a coup of war and dictatorship, what would have happened? What would the story of the South Basque People have been like if there had been a republic in Spain? Whether the bakkes, Biceii, Gipures, and Navarro, who demanded a state, would obtain independence with the republic? Perhaps not, but even without success, what would equality, democratic participation, even womanhood, be like social justice, proclaim to live in a modern state of progress? It's hard to imagine what our lives would have been like if the fascists hadn't won them, if we hadn't experienced a dark dictatorship, a reaction, a reconnaisssance, a reconnaisssance, a retention of dreams, and even life, the regime that had utterly abandoned them, pursued everything connected with the euppressivity. What would be our language, our culture, our way of looking at the world and our being? Would we be here? Or who, if he is here? Which of us would be here? What would be the presence of force here? What would be the main language here? What's our mentality? Humano is asking me these questions. Yet it is said that there is no worse nostalgia than to miss what never happened. And, to be honest, we're not here for nostalgia right now. We'll never change what we were or what wasn't. And what we really are is the subjects of an anti-democratic and corrupt monarchy of a Spanish king. We are under his command by law and deed. We're subject to a regime that the dictator Franco designed before he died. We are subject to a Spanish regime which cannot be democratized by the 78 regime. 90 years ago we were under a Bourbon and now we're under a Bourbon. We continued like 90 years ago, with an army threatening a coup d'état. 90 years later, the same Spanish economic elites continue to rule. 90 years later, the nations of the State remain unrecognized. 90 years later, we have no right to self-determination. Unfortunately, that's what we are. But it's not what we want to be. This is why we have submitted the full correction, to refuse the monarchy, and to defend the Euscal republic, because we wish to be free. You, Mr Hernandez, tell us about recognizing history. We talked to him about making history. Precisely, out of respect for those who gave their lives for those values that are still in force and that we also share. Because we want democracy, the right of deciding, because we want to be the right of making a republic by nations without a state. We want to live in a Euscal Republic where we will be masters of our future, so that we can make our decisions, the big ones and the small ones. We want you to be able to declare the state of alarm in a pandemia. We want to negotiate the purchase of our vaccines. Or just what we'd like to do to our students, what we'd like to do with them. We want a republic that will divide wealth. We would have a republic to maintain the housing, the work, the health and education, whether we were born here, or in another country. We want the Esscal Republic, born of Euskula, who will die of eus and Euscania. The Basque Republic, where we can look after our old ones and dream of our young ones. Our jobs, a republic that will defend them in the struggle for our own worth and industry, as the people of the U.Z.U.C.C.S.C.C.C.s are fighting. A republic between equals. To live, to enjoy, to enjoy, we want lives worth sharing in the Euscal Republic. Our collective nature, as a people, is the eucalyptic republic which will claim pride. That's the Basque Republic we want. Ours is not what was not, but what will be. All our political actions, all our enterprises, are directed to it, as well as to our present action, because we clearly see what our mission is: to build euscal Republic. But we can't do that alone, we have to go that way together. Sin undad nunca conseguiremos la república vasca. The other day, in the Aberri Eguna, a Basque from Argentina told me that from there it was not understood that we did not celebrate the Aberri Eguna in a unitary way. Then he apologized, saying that he might have sinned out of naivety. I replied that it was not naivety, much less, but that was our raison d'être. And then he sent me a well-known verse from Martin Fierro that says, "Brothers be united / that is the first law / have true union / at any time / because if between them fight / will devour the outside ones." Sometimes from afar, everything looks much clearer. I will always thank the Basque diaspora for its wisdom and generosity, especially because much of our diaspora is descended from those who had to exile for war and Francoism. They are the sons and daughters, the grandchildren and grandchildren of Gudaris, nationalists, abertzales, republicans, those who massacred as in Sartaguda, those who had no other remedy than to continue to live humiliated, with fear, alone, those who managed to organize themselves inside and outside the prison, those who began at that time with the culture of visits to prisoners. 90 years later, we're still here. For all of them, our homage is today. The best homage we can do to-day is to keep the value of them and follow the path which they begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u28	The lady's head. Good morning, everyone. In the face of the history fiction exercises that I have heard in this last intervention or the reinterpretation or the interpretation of the part heard also in the intervention of Mr Barrio of the People's Party-Citizens, I would like to focus the debate a little bit, taking it to the highest I would like to focus the debate on what for the socialists represents the Second Republic, I would like to talk about the republican values, of civic republicanism. The anthropologist Lévi-Strauss said that for most of the human species, and for tens of thousands of years, the idea that humanity includes every human being on the face of the earth does not exist at all. The designation of this idea of humanity loses meaning beyond the limits of each tribe, of each linguistic group, and sometimes even of a simple village. And do not believe that this statement of the great anthropologist is of exclusive application in its Tropic Tristes or in the remote islands of Melanesia, nothing further from reality. The discourses on which they were based on that exclusive vision of the tribe, of the empire, of the nation were the germ of the greatest barbarism and unwiseness that mankind has known throughout its history. For 30 years the world was plunged into a total war. From 1914 to 1945 empires, fascisms, dictatorships, but, above all, the selective vision of us and the spread of hatred towards the other dragged millions and millions of people to a battlefield where they found death. In this context, on this night of the sad history of the twentieth century, we can find some attempts to bring back this spiral of hatred and destruction. First, the Weimar Republic in Germany, and then, years later, the Second Spanish Republic. By the way, both experiences with important protagonists of the socialist parties. These experiences planted a timid seed that, although trampled on by German Nazism or Spanish Francoism, would eventually germinate years later. Experiences like the Second Spanish Republic, therefore, were small seeds planted in a world that seemed absolutely committed to self-destruction. The socialist Julián Besteiro, in the speech approving the 1931 Constitution, warned of the situation of oasis in which the Spaniards believed to live. "I call the attention of the honourable Members to the fact that the oases, which have enjoyed great fame and reputation since biblical times, as deserts become penetrating, have no value beyond prints." Unfortunately, his prophecy ended up being fulfilled. In July 1936 the desert penetrated until it tried to drown the Republican oasis. The seed, however, was planted and the meters and meters of sand poured by Franco's fascist tyranny could not drown it. With the death of the dictator in 1975 the fruits would re-emerge, the values of democracy and freedom would re-emerge. Therefore, this debate, the debate of the Second Republic and its values, or what it represents, is not a debate about a cyclical episode, an anecdote of history, we are talking about a seed that, planted at different moments of that beginning of the twentieth century, would eventually germinate throughout Europe from 1945 onwards. The young people of that time, when they raised their heads, after years and years of having her crouched between trenches, understood the need for agreement, for a pact between different people, for the need to recognize the neighbor as part of a universal, transnational project, and above state, nations and flags, to assume that every human being is part of something common that we call humanity. Forgive me for having entertained me in this time by taking a walk through history, but in these times, where the 140-character messages and, above all, the discourses that obscenely manipulate history without any other objective than trying to trick four of us lost on social networks, I have considered it absolutely necessary to search for the roots of what socialists understand by republican values. Because democracy, freedom, brotherhood, are not laws granted by any god, they did not always exist, and therefore we are always in danger of being taken away from us. These are values by which millions of people gave life to the wide and long of the world, they are values that cost blood, sweat and tears to conquer. I would like, therefore, to claim republican values, to exalt that civic republicanism that my good friend Mikel Unzalu so much likes to talk about, a real, measurable and concrete way of improving the quality of our democracies, of regaining confidence in politics. A civic republicanism that claims the triumph of popular will, of democracy in front of tyranny. Because in a republican society it is the recognition of different and respect for political and coexistence rules that makes us citizens. And this is really the important thing, neither the identity nor the language nor the religion nor the traditions or beliefs of each one matter to be citizens; each person is free to have the feelings he wants and no one can be demanded of one or the other. The republic is quite the opposite of the tribe and village to which I have referred to the beginning of my intervention. It is a form of political, civic coexistence and, of course, the republic is not just or precisely the model in which the head of state is appointed. By the way, I think I see that idea of civic republicanism in Mr Lehendakari's words, when not so long ago, here in this very House, he was talking to us about the need to republish politics, and I am sincerely glad to hear him, because that is the way in which we Socialists have been going for over 140 years. Because the Socialist Party has a clear historical trajectory linked to the defence of democracy, freedom and citizens' rights. The Socialists have defended these values during the dictatorship of Primo de Rivera, during the Second Republic, during the fascist tyranny of Franco, and we were part of the transition, of the return to democracy, and of course of the 1978 Constitution, with which we are absolutely committed. And that is precisely the reason why the Lehendakari Patxi López was able to say – and we Basque Socialists here today from this House reaffirm it – that "without socialism, there is no freedom". It has been and will continue to be so. I believe that in this speech the fundamentals of our amendment to the initiative of the Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita Group have been explained, going beyond that commemoration of the Second Republic, which we obviously commemorated – so we did yesterday in Eibar – to go to the recognition of the republican values that lie behind. At all times we have tried to put into practice one of those values that we are so much talking about here today: the value of dialogue between different people and that of the will to agree. An agreement between the parties, which does not imply the cession of any of them, but the victory of the whole. It wasn't possible. However, we do not want to feed into a debate whose chronicle could well have been written on the day before. We all know, we knew, what we were going to say each of the groups here today in this debate. Finally, I thank Mr Egibar and, in particular, Mr Hernández for their efforts. A single verb has prevented the agreement. When two do not reach an agreement it is clear that the responsibility is to divide between the two parties. I regret, of course, that in an initiative like this all groups have decided to get into the defense of what separates us, instead of focusing on what unites us. Of course, what my group will do is abstain in the vote on the initiative put forward by the Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita group. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u29	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u30	Good morning, everyone. Egia da azken ordu hauetan hitz egin dugula elkarrekin. Alonso jaunarekin hitz egin dut, Hernándezekin ere bai, coita Jasone Agirrekin ere. Interpelazioa lehendakariari egin zitzaion eta Jon Hernándezek aurreratu zuen mozioa zetorrela. Orduan, jakinak ziren gauza. Baina nik uste dut, behintzat, gu leave the station debating muina salbatzen. Hau da, zuk esan duzu, Jon Hernández: "They have not used an argument, but a subterfuge". I don't think that's true. At least, it's an incomplete version. Then there are another series of versions in which I am not going to enter: that of Carmelo Barrio, who absolutely turns to history and tortilla, and it seems that the Republic is responsible for the glorious uprising and the Civil War. No comments, no comments. But I did want to say to Mr Hernández that what it was all about is, with a 90-year perspective, to update positions, not to fall into an anachronistic debate, as has been mentioned here in one of the speeches. The Lehendakari, in his answer to his question, told him that the best tribute we can pay to the republican values and principles was, from the moment of institutional political action, to preserve this series of subjects, both in the social order and in the order of participation, which we have an obligation to manage from the public administration, from the Basque Government, from the various institutions. Even yesterday night I told him that I would be willing to enter that point if there is a co-responsibility and we make a complete version of the X-ray that we have both of what happened in the Republic, that short period of five years, but that had an even greater relevance during the first six months, for example, as far as the Basque issue is concerned. We have talked about this, but when we say that we express the commitment, in the case of Parliament, to the principles of republicanism based on democratic values and on the defence of individual and collective human rights, we are of course completing what should be the architecture of any State that is of democratic value. That's why we say "principles, values and rights that any State must vertebrate, both in its political action and in the way of resolving conflicts." This is the anchor we have with the values of republicanism, but I told them that we had to accompany the territorial issue, because we can talk about the values and principles of the Constitution of the 31, of the Second Republic, and we can talk about regionalism and we can talk about the fate of the different political and institutional attempts to shape a different reality through or from the Second Republic, and there, if we stick to the calendar, yesterday April 14th the Republic is proclaimed, but three days later, on the 17th, that is, datorren larunbatean, Gernikan elkartu ziren alkate eta zinegotzi ugari. Tartean zeuden Getxoko, Bermeo, Mundaka eta Elorrioko alkateak. Tartean José Antonio Aguirre zegoen. Eta Errepublikaren izenean, Guard Zibilak eta Ejerzitoak awards egin zien Gernikara joatea, Errepublikaren izenean. Beraz, ekimen demokratiko bat ukatua izan zen. Baina, hala ere, José Antonio Aguirre proclaims, at the edge of the road, after signing the manifesto: "recognition of the Republic", and demands the recognition of the principle of the right of self-determination for the Basque people. And it literally says, "We call for the proclamation and solemn recognition of the Basque Republic, whose constitution and laws will be developed without delay by virtue of the natural and inalienable right of peoples to self-determination." The so often interestingly revered José Antonio Aguirre said this. Okay, this is April 17th. We go on May 27, 31, which is a month and a half later: 18 mayors of Álava, Bizkaia, Gipuzkoa and Navarra meet at the Prince of Viana Hall of the Foral Diputation of Navarra to unify efforts for the achievement of the Basque statute, because there were previews of an elections to constituent courts, fixed for 28 June. Then, this grand assembly of Basque mayors of the four territories is made. They met and adopted a text on the basis of the draft by Eusko Ikaskuntza on 14 June. The project is approved by 427 mayors in favour of a total of 548, almost 80% of the mayors. That initiative was again transferred to the authorities of the Republic, and the result of that management had obviously failed, he was once again told no. In addition, the unconstitutionality of the draft General Statute of the Basque State is alleged, but with a relationship of competence and a relationship also shared with what the powers of the Republic could be. The constitution had not yet been promulgated; it was promulgated on 9 December 1931, but the statute was already treated as unconstitutional. It seems that the preventive remedy, the previous remedy of unconstitutionality, already existed at the time, is unconstitutional. There is another attempt, which is also unsuccessful, and the statute is, of course, obtained in wartime, in October of the 36th, and with a duration of nine months, at war. The government is constituted by José Antonio Aguirre – it is often said as a bell of prestige, in addition – a government of concentration with all political formations. It could not be otherwise: concentration of all political formations, except those raised. That was the scenario in which the political position of all those mayors was set, on two bases, which came out in the debate about the Emeritus King. The first base: Basque Republic confederated with the other Iberian republics. And Euskadi's full sovereignty over himself, since the exercise of the right of self-determination. These were the two political principles. And we say, after 90 years, that they are worth only to acknowledge the value of the commonwealth, and to accept the human and collective rights of individuals, which every State ought to have in mind when setting up its skeleton. That's us today and here, 90 years later, II. Our meditation and homage around the Republic. And we think, as far as it is concerned, that we ought to remark, what it is, what it is, what it ought to have a foundation in regard to the future, about independence, which this state ought to have in mind. And that was it. I told him that if we all make an effort, we can complement that double face of the same coin, so that the two issues could act in symbiosis: recognition of republican values and also, among them, the right to decide or the right of self-determination that constitutes a sovereign political reality. Se habla de repúblicia, república... The nature or surname of a republic... The more adjectives, the worse: república popular, democratic... But let's go side by side. La República francs, la de la revolución, la de léberté, fraternité, égalité." They noticed last week that in France, apart from French, there are other languages. Last week, after 230 years, they noticed that there are also eucalyptics, Catalan, Corsicans besides French. This is why we speak of the values of the republic, and that these principles ought to be connected with all rights: political rights, economic rights, social, cultural, and even language. That was our attempt. I don't know how the vote will go. In any case, I think our efforts were just and honest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u31	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. The next round of the band that hasn't issued any correction, Miss Mist, Mrs Martínnez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u32	Today we can bring here a new story of good and bad, of black and white, of everything or nothing. It is their way of doing politics, hiding or ignoring the grey, which is precisely where people's lives develop. Bad entrepreneurs in front of good workers. Good left in front of bad right. Bad men in front of good women. Bad monarchy in front of the good republic. That's always their game, even getting to cheer up and pull the pressure and attack on their bad privates, for a few months now we Vox's. In this particular case, its undisputed good is the Second Republic. The 90th anniversary of this is of the same importance to you as to Mr. Iglesias, the physical integrity of the leaders of Vox, my party. I mean, nothing. But it is very good for them to keep alive their particular crusade against what they clearly call the "Region of 78", which has made it possible for us today to have representation in different institutions and which, from the government itself, dynamite the structures that define and sustain our nation. Every recognition of the Second Republic uses it as a torpedo against the flotation line of our Constitution, of our democracy. It is their way of doing politics: to create enemies that deny any merit and to confront savers of the welfare state, multiculturalism, women, unquestionable examples of commitment, good doing and responsibility. And the worst part is that they know that they lie when they make this distinction, that they set the streets on fire, that they take advantage of the need and the fatigue of so many people, but they need it to grow, to grow as a party. Well, it used to help them grow, because today their future is rather dark, not to say black. Here in Euskadi, dying swallowed up by Bildu. In Spain, disappear victims of the arrogance of its leader, the alpha male. Those years, those of the republic, were significantly worse than the previous ones in economic matters. The political convulsion was the general tonic, combined in the year 34 with the failed armed uprising of the left, the anarchists, UGT and PSOE. They were years of anarchist revolts, murders – also of conservatives – of frustration and rift. That's what they did. But that part does not interest you because it would make impossible the construction of your post-truth, the manipulation of history to suit your particular interests. You use history as propaganda, turning it into a bold weapon of a cheap confrontation between red and blue. Nefarious manicism that no longer benefits you. Hence, they are committed to fuelling civil war, to using their followers to persecute and attack those who from Vox face their communist obsessions. By the way, a war-civilist hatred that was already forgotten and today is more present than ever thanks to its party on the streets. We saw him in Vallecas, in which his people shouted: "You will die as in the 36" or "To get them as in Paracuellos". What a shame! History is history, with capitals. And not historical memory, because historical memory is subjective and manipulable, because it moves us away from science and objectivity. Let historians work, and invite the citizen to read and learn, to commemorate what he or she rightly believes necessary to commemorate. This is what we mean when we talk about freedom: not having to listen to middle-aged politicians telling us what's good and what's bad. We're older, and I'll make it clear to you: leave us alone. Yes, and stop violently persecuting ideas. We saw them in Vallecas. We also saw them in the Catalan election campaign, and in the Basque, of course. I remind you that it is no more violence that has suffered your headquarters in Cartagena than that which you encourage against us. All are violence, gentlemen of Podemos, gentlemen of the PNV and gentlemen of the PSOE. And the consequences of its extreme incivism can have terrible consequences, as history has shown. Finally, I will end up telling you that you mention Clara Campoamor a lot; I do not know if you have read any of her books. I invite you to read a very nice one: The Spanish revolution seen by a republican, so that you know well the crueltys he narrates, first hand, of communists and socialists in the Second Republic.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u33	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing on the answers, Mr. Hernández, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u34	Mr Carmelo Barrio today accuses our motion to create a conflict of interpretation of history. It is curious, the account you have made, and of course, of course, Mrs Martínez, representative of Vox, the account about the Second Republic you have raised, coincides basically with the account of Francoist historiography. That account that was concerned with making a democratic and legitimate system responsible – with all its contradictions and failures, like any other – at a time of convulsive history in Europe, the 1930s, to make it responsible for what those who stood up against legality committed. Curiously, our motion – which is not very profuse, which is not a historical narrative; it is a small, concrete motion – coincides with the version of the most prestigious historians and Hispanics, Spanish, Basque, foreign, of what the Second Republic was about. And it doesn't go into more detail because, in fact, then there are many questions and interpretations about many things that happened in a period of history. That is why, Mr Egibar, saving the core today, to which you referred, was simply making a recognition by this Parliament of the Second Republic as the first democratic regime that the Basque people lived. With all your contradictions, with all your vicissitudes, with all the stories that you have told and with others that do not fill us with pride to our coalition, both in Euskadi and in the whole state. We are told of nostalgia, we are told that it is an idealizing nostalgic initiative, and it is not true, it is a lie. Mrs Agirre said: "We are not going to change the present with nostalgia." No, of course not. But we have to change it with memory. Without memory we can't change it. And to recognize what the Second Republic, with a minimum of agreement from these four majority forces to which I referred earlier, is an exercise in memory that the Basque people deserved from their Parliament. True, today we live a monarchy that you have described, Mrs Agirre. In November our group brought an initiative, where, in addition, we raised what is our alternative. I've said it clearly. I know what my alternative to the future is, and I don't delegitimate anyone else's. We then signed your group and ours an initiative to reject the current monarchy, which did not come out in this House, because, precisely, there are different views on how we need to build our future. That is why this was not a debate, Mr Egibar, on how we need to build our future. Whenever you want, we are willing to discuss how we have to build our future. And we also participated in the self-government presentation. But this was a much simpler, much more necessary debate. It was simply to do justice to the Second Republic in Euskadi. Doing justice to him from a minimum common denominator, which I believe we could have had. Of course, I am convinced that the women and men closest to the sensitivity of the Basque Nationalist Party, the sensitivity of EH Bildu, the sensitivity of the Basque Socialist Party, and the sensitivity of the Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita coalition are willing to make that recognition of the Second Republic. We're not going to build a future without looking to the past. It's not about nostalgia. We all always look to our past, if we want to build the future. We can't make a clean slate of our past. What we were proposing today is that this Parliament should make that recognition. And I have to regret that it was not possible, because there was a sufficient parliamentary majority to do so. We already know the interpretation of Vox and the People's Party, Mr Egibar. We already knew what they were going to say, we did. I do not agree with the representative of the Socialist Party that we all knew what we were going to say, because I did not know what I was going to say until I knew the position of the political forces. But he did know what the Spanish right was going to say, heiress of that regime that rose up against the Republic. That's what we knew. And the rest of the democratic forces have not been able to unite in a common minimum, when those who rose up against that minimum democracy are once again very present in the Spanish State, and we have not been able to agree to make a minimum recognition of what the Second Republic and those who defended it in the face of that uprising. We felt it absolutely necessary that we could have agreed at this time. And another day we will already discuss what we want the political future of our people to be, an issue that I will never give up discussing either. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u35	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. "Essulka Popularo-Ciudadnos, Mr. Barri, your word is yours."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u36	Thank you, President. Mr Hernandez, you are going to fail here, just as the Second Republic failed. Just the same, always the same. In these matters you don't like to call it frankness. He insults my group, telling us that we are the heirs of what, when you know that that is absolutely uncertain. It is a lie and I have told you here, in relation to the analysis I have made of the end of the Second Republic, of the cause of the Civil War and of the illegitimate dictatorship that occurred after so much failure of the Second Republic. So I'm asking you, for the next few times, to stop that from the retent of Francoism or the heirs from not knowing what, because, first of all, it's a lie. I'm telling you, believe me. And, besides, I don't think it's an elegant resource, either real or true, when it comes to politics. You've defended something. It's going to fail. But that's not my problem. You said you already knew where my speech was coming from. And I've settled him in what unites us. Mr Alonso has said that we must find elements that unite us. Well, it unites us with the Constitution of 78, his party and mine, in principle. These are the elements that I have claimed, truly democratic elements, which have underpinned 43 years of progress in freedom, peace and unprecedented economic development in Spain. That is why I ask you not to use that easy resource of Francoism. It's usually Bildu's usual strategy, but, I don't know, I saw you a little thinner on those issues, not trying to get Vox and the People's Party-Citizens in the same sack. Well, you'll see, but I think you have to tune in a little bit. Moreover, it is a proposal for a declaration, always the same, obsessed with defending an idyllic republic that did not exist. Because that republic failed and led the Spaniards to a civil war and an illegitimate dictatorship. That is, that is the fundamental element. You forget those issues. We have to do the analysis of why we got there. That is, it is a time of our history that has been studied and, of course, analysed in depth. In addition, the more we know of that part of history – every day we learn of new issues – the more childish the attempt by certain forces, such as yours, to present the Republic as a lost paradise. In that sense, obviously, we will not agree, because we do not defend, precisely, lost paradises; we defend gained, current and consolidated realities. That's what we stand for. I tell you again, don't disqualify us in that simple way for defending that. I'll tell you again. I was asking you before, you haven't answered me. Have you seen the amendment of the whole of the Basque Nationalist Party? Well, that's the same thing again. The right of self-determination, self-determination. We escaped the speech you said. It is not even going to commemorate the Second Republic. Maybe we'll go back with the dumb earring, again. You don't care about that, either, or it's good for you. It's just as good for you, too, because that's what the party you represent, the coalition, the group you represent: confusion, division, confrontation. That is, if the Second Republic and all its pitiful values are not exalted, well, let the self-determination of the nationalists come. He doesn't care. Division, confusion, confrontation. Finally, Madam President, Mrs Agirre spoke of the Basque Republic, and of being born, living and dying in Basque. This is respected by the Spanish Constitution, has developed it, defends it and guarantees it: to be born, to live, to die in Basque. Of course, the republic you want me would not allow me to live and die in Spanish, and many would not, in the future, allow them to be born, live and die in Spanish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u37	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Aguirre, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u38	I also did not know what everyone was going to say or did not expect some people to say certain things, such as, for example, Mr Hernández. I would never have thought that he would accuse us of sectarianism in the pure style of Aznar and of these people, of these reactionary sectors. The question is very simple, Mr Hernández: we respect your project, you respect ours. It's a matter of physics, there's the same distance between two points, a and b, and between b and a. It's just that. We are not united by the same nation, but by the same class. And precisely by the memory that you said, by respect for those values, it is for what we, both you and we, fight for a just, dignified and egalitarian future. For the memory of those people who gave their lives for those values, we will not oppose their proposal either. Nor will we oppose the Socialists' proposal, although, well, fiction-political is what you do: to come down here and talk as if you were in the Congress of Deputies in Madrid, without taking into account the two majority forces here, elected by popular will. And then, what they propose is an oxymoron: republishing the monarchy. The republic is based on democracy, and the monarchy, by definition, is undemocratic, without going to value the monarchy of the Spanish tribe-village. That would be another issue that we have also discussed recently. But, well, in your case, we are not going to oppose your proposal. As for the patriot group, we have tried to make a medium with you, we think it's right to acknowledge the right of self-determination. But, as we told you, we were ready to get the full text, but we wanted to add an engagement: to have that bet on self-determination in the text of the new states. Because, crack, we're confused. It's not suspicious, but we're a little confused. Because, on the one hand, we call ourselves Mr. Urkullu, as the socialists say, "Staranizar la monarquía." Next day, Orcian says he wants the Republic of Euscala. You defended self-determination on this point. But you have a partner in this negotiation of States, and in the legislation before you have accepted the right of veto to the Socialists, who say not to think about self-determination, but not the right to decide. So I tell you as a citizen, and I'm honestly telling you, because I'm having a lot of diaspoise, and I'm going to go to the movies, because I'm talking inside. He always tells me that I am not going away as a party, and I go as a people; and here I will speak as a people, as a people. Between the Party and the people I'll always choose the popular dot. And that's what I want to know, what do you choose? The party or the country? In this case, that's the question. And we ask you honestly, because we see that it is more necessary than ever that we should make our decisions, that our people should be protected by the legal protection of our fellow-citizens, in the discussion of our new political state, should be more clear than ever to be able to overcome what we have in order to protect our fellow-citizens. Therefore, as I have said, we think well of the proposal which you have introduced, but we need an engagement. This country thinks it requires an engagement to go beyond the proclamation, to act. For this reason we did not wish to remain merely nostalgia, as I said, because ours was not what it was, but what it will be. But we want to show the full respect for the Republic and to all those who fought with dignity and dignity against Frenchism. Everyone who feels that way, hug each other and raise the republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u40	Take andrea, I don't think you've understood me, or I've expressed myself wrong. I haven't talked about politics-fiction, I've talked about something that we were warned about in college many years ago: history-fiction, wanting to write what would have happened if... The story is what it is. So, you've done those exercises, what would have happened if...? That's what I mean by history-fiction. Otherwise, I expected no less in his answer. Possibly speaking of values, I understand that I am talking about global issues, whether here or in the Congress of Deputies; where I have to defend values, there I will defend them. Mrs. Vox, I wasn't going to come in because we're not going to waste much time at this point either. Just like I'm lost, because you said, or seemed to hear it, that what happens at Podemos' headquarters is the same kind of violence as what happened at Vox's rally. What I didn't seem to hear is that he condemned either of you. I say to you that my party condemns both, the ones painted in all the seats and everywhere and everything that is a hindrance to democracy: each and every one of them. Mr Barrio, I am not going in to defend Mr Hernández; he has good spines to defend himself. But it bothered me when you said that your initiative will fail just like the Second Republic. No, your initiative will fail in democracy, it will fail because this House will vote yes or no. The Second Republic did not end this way, the Second Republic failed by a military coup, which, by the way, I do not know where you got that it was a military coup originating in or resulting from the same Republic. No, look, Mr. Barrio, 1930. Because many times we take history – this is something else that warned us a lot in the faculty – we talk about history anecdotally and we start in 1931, because we are interested in it. But let's see what Spain was like in 1930, which is also interesting to do that exercise. And I'm going to say it in the words of two intellectuals who can be anything but leftists. First, José Ortega and Gasset, liberal yes, but certainly not from the left. He said on November 15, 1930: "That Spain before the Republic is us and not the regime itself, we, street people from three to four and nothing revolutionary, who have to tell our Spanish fellow citizens your state does not exist, rebuild it. " But let's go further, let's still go a little further to the right: Angel Ossorio and Gallardo. You know him, pro-Christian, left-wing, nothing. He said on May 6, 1930: "After six years of dictatorship that was left of Spain, all the legitimate forces broken, the army broken, the university with its closed classrooms, its teachers resigned and the students in the streets, the Treasury broken, the Justice of whose downfall nor the minister at the time can have a complete idea, the Church broken, with the vexation of the bishop of Barcelona and the creation of patriotic canons who dedicated themselves to giving rallies in the pulpits, all the legal forces broken, but, instead, intact all the old forces. What's left? I'm not going to look at what the right say or what the left say, I'm going to look at the center, the next day all the cacicats were standing." That's 1930's Spain. Don't start the story in 1931, because that's how you're interested. No, no, gentlemen, also respect that part of history and do not talk about the chaos in which a Spain lived with a Constitution of 1876, which was no longer believed by the same king; let's see, chaos did not begin in 1931. Mr Egibar, Mr Hernández, I did not want to continue in this deeper debate on history. I believe that, when this pandemic nightmare passes and we can reopen societies, then, in Andoain, in Irun or in Oñati, in the face of coconuts if necessary, because we discuss these issues of history. I believe that today the really important thing was that: to underline the values underlying all this, the need that was seen in 1931 to put order in an absolutely destroyed and disstructured state, and that was achieved thanks to the impulse of values that are the values of republicanism, of civic republicanism, of which the socialists we speak so often. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u41	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians, Monsieur Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u42	About what Mrs. Aguirre said, two shades. In the first place, you say you see our proposal well, but you need guarantees, and you enter a concept which does not appear in your correction. Why your correction is very short, very simple, and fixed, it is clear that the legislature of Europe does not make the Spanish monarchy itself, and expresses the commitment to the Basque Republic." We introduce our correction and you need a guarantee about our position. I don't approve of that. That's distrust. One thing is worse: to have no certainty in one's head, as it often happens to you. Why the concept of self-determination, the proclamation of right, I have told you over and over again from Aguire. But even more yesterday, it must have been the day before, when Arnnaldo, head of the EH Collector, discovered something new in Eibar. And the copyright is PNV's, or José Antonio Aguire's or his heir. Why "la república vasca confederada con las demás repúblicas ibéricas" is what Aguirre said. After 90 years. And then you're asking for security? Guk gure position dakkagu, clay age azaldu duguna. Horregatik esan nahi nion, batik bat, Jon Hernándezzi, zergatik republican sutsua eta zintzoa da, guk ahalegin bat egin dugula. Lehendakariak, zuri weretzuna ematerakoan, esan zizun omenaldirik hoberena litzatekeela gaurko erakundeetatik euskal gizarte bidezkoago eta berdinzaago bat Egypt. Hori dela arlo guztietan egin behar duguna: a more just and egalitarian society in every sense, that is the greatest and best tribute we can pay to those who inspired those republican values and principles to which we allude, which is the best investment and connection. I think it is an attempt to update, not to keep a fixed photo 90 years ago and to say: how beautiful or how difficult this photo is or how bloody it is, because of one of the vicissitudes that the Republic had in its little space of time, in the five years that it lasted. I say, well, let's move those values and underline those values, and that is what we have done in the amendment. In democratic values, and the principle of republican character, founded on the defence of individuals and collective rights of men. Isn't that what they're supposed to be? And we say, why, 90 years has not passed in vain, that these principles, values, and rights ought to constitute the skeleton of the real state, as well as the manner in which it is to resolve conflicts. That's what we said. Creo que esto tiene su sudo. And appeal to history. I spoke about the French language and the Basque language before. It is a good thing that there has been a Member who has promoted and achieved this recognition in the French National Assembly. But in the same way, in the name of freedom, fraternity, equality, all the rights of the Basque territories of Iparralde were also suppressed. That some believe that historical rights have only existed in territories of southern Euskadi. No, they also had their own historical rights. And in the name of the revolution, and in the hand of the Republic, all these rights were, never better said, guillotined. I say: the perspective of the Republic, yes; Republican values and principles in symbiosis also with individual and collective human rights and democratic principles. That was our contribution. I don't know if we made it up. I think we were honest.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u43	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. In conclusion, Mist, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u44	Okay. Ladies and gentlemen. Again we see in this Parliament nostalgic of the Second Republic. Note, moreover, that none of us here have lived it. And they have resold it to us as the panacea of freedom and democracy, within that propaganda work to whitewash a sectarian and libertarian regime that led Spain to a civil war. Moreover, the left, or rather the ultra-left, sells it to us as an authentic democracy, ensuring that the present monarchy is not. We believe that the concept of democracy that you, Leninists, handle remains very evident if we look at examples such as Venezuela, Cuba, China or North Korea. But I will list some of the rights and freedoms that we enjoy today and which you have not alluded to, which, moreover, have been brutally abused in the Second Republic. Freedom to criticize any State institution. We've got her today. That's why you criticize the monarchy. There wasn't one in the Second Republic. Freedom of information. Today there is no censorship. In the Second Republic there was. Freedom of religion. Thank God, we also enjoy it today. In the Second Republic there was only killing against the religious. Freedom of education. We're enjoying it today. Neither was there in the Second Republic. Parents could not freely choose how to educate their children. And finally, freedom to wave the red flag. In the Second Republic this flag and the defense of the monarchy were prohibited. Gentlemen of Podemos, they speak of freedom and democracy, when what they mean is that they want to take away these freedoms from us. Mr. Alonso, I wasn't going to come in with you, but I'm going to answer you. Vox rejects all kinds of violence. But it does it with the big mouth, not with the little and slippery mouth, as you do. We condemn all the violence, including that of Sestao, Vallecas and Barcelona, which we not only condemn...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u45	Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u46	...but we have suffered it. Vox doesn't differentiate between violence, as you do. Do you know how they did it? Signing an infamous document presented by those who instigate such violence, the Lords of Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u47	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. The discussion is over and we're going to vote in Hernández's original text of Mr. Hidalgo's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly were 43; 75; the supporters of 6; the contrary, 38; the abscesssions, 31; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u48	So, not allowed original text. Next, we'll vote for the entire USPAL Group-Ciudadans correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; the votes are 75; the supporters 7; the opponents are 68; the abstations are 0; white, 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u49	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. Let's vote for the full rights of the EH team. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 43; 75; the supporters are 21; the opponents are 54; the abstations are 0; white,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u50	Not accepted. The Basque Socialists will vote for the whole team's leadership. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly are 43; 75; 10; the contrary, 44; the abstations 21; white, 0.1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u51	Not accepted. And in the end, we vote for the full rights of what the Eubertarian party has represented. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly are 43; 75; the supporters are 31; the contrary, 23; the abstations 21st; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u52	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Motion, Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, a popularle of Euskalia, a member of Ciudadose, a preventive growth for 2021 of Euskadia. Discipline and final resolution. Your turn, Mr. Gordillo, is to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government who remain in the Chamber, Mr Azpiazu, Health Adviser. Well, after this curious debate, at least about the essences, where everyone here has voted their own, let's talk about the things to eat. The motion that I am bringing to this Parliament today originates in an inquiry which was put to the Councillor for Economic Affairs, Mr Azpiazu, Mr Pedro María – here in addition – concerning the macroeconomic indicators on which the budget is established or has been drawn up. From an economic point of view, I think it would be very good for everyone, for society as a whole, if the government would often accept opposition proposals, above all on three fundamental issues. Basically, this motion refers only to three fundamental issues that I believe are essential for us to share. Firstly, transparency is called for in economic matters; secondly, respect for procedures and respect for this Parliament, respect for this Parliament. It is good that the Government has a very comfortable majority, although today they have curiously voted different things in the previous proposal. According to the fact that the government has a very comfortable majority, which it usually uses, but this is Parliament, this is the House of Representatives of the will of the citizens who have elected it and Parliament must exercise a control function. And, thirdly, the third issue that I think is fundamental on economic issues – and I think that we could be the groups here, or at least the average of the substantially agreed groups – is the need to help the productive sector. It is therefore only three things, three legs to build a relationship that, at least from an economic point of view, will help society as a whole: transparency, respect for Parliament and support for the productive sector. Transparency, respect for this Parliament and support for the productive sector: that is what is called for, that is no longer required. In the question I asked before this holiday recess to Mr Azpiazu, the Councillor for Economic Affairs and Finance, all I came to say was that it was appropriate to review the macro-magnitudes on which the budget has been drawn up. The big problem we have is that the budget has been drawn up on a growth rate that the Government itself has acknowledged is no longer going to be so. Of course, if you make the budgets thinking you're going to grow almost 9%, and suddenly you correct it yourself and say, "No, 6.7" – at best, we'll also talk about this – because I think it is advisable to review the budget issues as well. We will have to make a budgetary adjustment, we will have to make an adjustment to the expenditure – Mr. Counsellor, you and I knew it and we know it, there will be an adjustment – and it will be through law. What is the path of law? We will have to make formal changes, of course, or not through a bridge clause, for the injection of European funds. We will see what remains, or if it is not what is always done, mark the house, which is to stop implementing budget items. That's an adjustment. Stopping implementing budget items is a covert adjustment of the budget, counselor, don't tell me no, man, that I have a lot of intellectual respect for you, don't tell me no. That's what's gonna happen. What is simply raised in this proposal, what I have tried to propose and what I propose to this House is simply one thing: that when we have to make this adjustment, because we will have to do it – if we do not have to do it, phenomenal, better for everyone – that we should not forget the productive sector, that we should not forget the usual ones, that we should not forget the autonomous ones, that we should not forget the hospitality sector, that we should not forget the industrial sector, only that, that we should not reduce the budget headings intended to boost productivity, which is what we all live on in the end, because that is why we are collecting and that is why there is then money for public expenditure and for social services. That is what this proposal seeks, no more or less. An attempt has been made to bring the Government closer in good faith. I am grateful for the willingness to engage in dialogue, although it has not finally been possible, also on parliamentary issues, because there was a phrase that, of course, the adviser will not like. If the proposal says that "in view of the need to adjust the planned expenditure in the budgets, there will be no reduction in the items intended to assist the productive sector", it does not mean that there will be no need to adjust the planned expenditure in the budgets. I wish, I wish. But you and I know that it always happens, it happens every year, when you systematically stop implementing certain percentages of budget lines. This is a brand of the house. This is done in the Bizkaia District Council, this is done in the Euskadi municipalities and that is done here. And then, on top of that, he takes out his chest, like when it was said that there was a remnant of 1 billion in the previous budgets. Is that for breast-feeding? That is, they have not implemented the budget lines. So what needs to be done is to adjust the budget line to the actual forecast of expenditure, to what is going to be the actual expenditure, because otherwise, there is no transparency, and this Parliament cannot exercise its role of control over the government. That is why I say to you, as the second fundamental principle in any economic relationship, that it would be very good to have respect for Parliament and to bring here the data and forecasts with transparency. Let's do a little chronology of the facts. On 25 June 2020, the Basque Government updates the macroeconomic picture for Euskadi, and talks about a 6.7 growth. Good. Later, I say, "Well, I think it's even a little generous 6.7, but good." Later, on October 6, he says: "Well, let's grow a little bit more. The 8.9." I said to him: "Mr. Counsellor, there are the main economic indicators of private institutions talking about two points less, at least one point and a peak less. I think it's very generous." "No, Mr. Gordillo. You're a pain in the ass." We started discussing budgets. By the way, we are always faced with the fact that we did not want to discuss the budgets; we tabled 800 amendments, a thousand and a thousand times the whole opposition, and they did not take one. Not one. The only two amendments that were adopted were a technical amendment – of self-correction by the Government – and another amendment on aid for the Sahara issue. Not a single amendment from the opposition, one thousand and a half. Look, I think a thousand and a thousand amendments would be good. But, well, it's okay. That was in January. In January, we say, "Well, let's grow the 8.6." I ask him: "Advisor, Brent's barrel is a little unstable. Do you think the price of Brent's barrel will affect the macroeconomic picture? He answers, "It doesn't matter. I believe – I read it in text – that the forecasts included in the budgets are still valid." That tells me on March 8th. A week later, a week later, at the Forum Europe says: "Well, this will have to be corrected a little downwards. This growth we have been saying of 8.6 will have to be corrected a little bit. We'll see about that." It's the typical thing: we'll see about that. Well, we'll see about that. So I ask you and – look, I thank you for that – gives the data here, in this Parliament, that's the right way, give the data here in this Parliament, and not at a press conference. I, Mr. Counsellor, you know, recognize things to you when you do them, in my opinion, conveniently. But it's just that, in general, this isn't what you're doing. So, on March 26th, he's already making the adjustment. He says, "Well, we were saying that we were going to grow the eight and peak, 8.6, almost 9, but not: the 6.7." A two-point drop. Screen. When you were an excellent economic spokesman in Congress, when you were an excellent parliamentarian, you put the issue of forecasts before the Government, which could not go that way for life. Well, look, I'm telling you the same thing; I use your arguments here. It's just that you have to give arguments and you have to give real data, not like this is some kind of CIS. You say, "No, I'd love the election forecasts to be these, to see if that's how I'm creating a state of mind." You know the economy doesn't work that way. Euskadi's budgets, therefore, are based on a macroeconomic picture, I repeat, with a growth forecast of eight and peak. We have already recognised that it will be at least two points below. Well, we, as a loyal opposition, really, the only thing we ask of you, seriously, the only thing we ask you to do is to make the adjustments you have to make, but, in making those adjustments, please do not harm the productive sector. Because from the productive sector public administrations always remember when to order it, when they have to pay taxes, when they have to pay social security contributions, when they have to advance VAT on unpaid bills...Tela, eh?. In Spain, VAT on unpaid invoices must be advanced. Mariner's screen. The only thing we are asking you to do is that the adjustment that needs to be made, because it will have to be adjusted, is not about the possible aid, which we have already said is scarce. That's what we're asking. What worries me, especially, is that. In general terms, the attitude towards this Parliament. I wish the economy was going well, I wish we could grow, not a six-and-a-half, I wish we could get three points back, but it just doesn't look like it. In the quarterly economic forecasts that have just been updated, they are already slipping a bit: "well, the situation is a bit so", "the subject of COVID", "the issue of vaccines is also a little slow, it does not improve in this sense". Well, that's all we ask. On the subject of COVID we remain the same. I am introducing the subject of COVID, the subject of vaccinations. This isn't your competition, it's not bad, is it? But I tell you simply because it is true that in this picture, in this economic situation, the best injection of good news for the economy would be to get as soon as possible what is called group immunity, right?, not to call it flock immunity, which was before the name, but, as ugly as it turns out, they have changed it. The economic environment is not very good either. Brent's barrel remains unstable, nor is consumer confidence particularly good. And then there's the issue of European funds. I think you're being cut off from the central government with the issue of European funds, huh, counselor? I think so. I understand that you want to get along with your political partner in government and so on, but I think they're chopping you a little bit. Let us see how the issue evolves; we will be very vigilant here. To what I am going, counselor, the case is that we agree essentially on this. The difference is that you seem to expect things to change in a natural artificial way, without doing anything. But I believe that on economic issues the fundamental thing is that there is confidence, or that economic actors have confidence, and for that it is essential that there is transparency. If we are denying the largest, and when there is no longer any remedy, we update downwards, we update less than we should update the growth forecasts. I think that sends a negative message. I am concerned that no direct aid has been given in time and form, despite the fact that there is a remaining 1 billion. I'm concerned about the very existence of the remnant. Because, I insist, even though you and your team, counselor, take out their breasts for having a remnant of 1 billion, we all know that these are matches that have not been executed. It's already a systematic thing. It is true that there are not always one billion remnants; it is much less so on other occasions. But there's always an important remnant, counselor. You know that. This, why is it? Well, because they like to play with this. They send the message that they don't spend all the departments, that they don't spend 100% at all, that they don't run everything: that they leave a little mattress in case, and then we're juggling. Because that's wrong. That is wrong because that removes the parliamentary debate and the monitoring role that this Parliament has to play, which was the second principle I told you, along with transparency. This Parliament is an institution that has to control the government. In order to be able to control the Government and to carry out its functions, it must have detailed information. On the day of the presentation of the regulation, we will introduce the need to create and implement, as all modern parliaments have, a budgetary control office. I am concerned, above all, about uncertainty. I am concerned about the uncertainty that has arisen, above all, that, with all these vavenes, Mr Azpiazu, we are not giving sufficient legal and economic security to the productive sector. It is true that I put this in your face, although I do not, of course, hold you 100% responsible. I have a little consideration, too. Of course, here are many factors that you do not control: there are central government factors, there are other factors in the international environment. But I believe that the factors that you control, such as giving reliable and permanently up-to-date information to this Parliament, can do so. I think you can do that. I believe that, thanks to this, we could guarantee minimum legal and economic security to the actors in the productive sector. Finally, the only thing I raise with this Parliament, for which I ask the confidence of this House, is simply to approve a motion which says only one thing: to force the Basque Government to ensure that, if it has to make an adjustment to expenditure, please do not charge that adjustment to aid to the productive sector, that it does not reduce aid to the productive sector, which is the sector that generates wealth and thanks to which taxes are generated and thanks to which all the services of our community are financed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u54	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Soto, representing the Podemos-IU team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u55	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, counselor. Firstly, I must congratulate you, Mr Gordillo, on the opportunity you have to discuss this issue. I also have to tell you that it does not seem so simple to assume the theoretical framework that you present us with your proposal. In fact, I am pleased that the Government says that it does not take up the phrase that you mentioned as a very easy phrase to assume, because it does not seem at all easy to assume. In fact, I believe that it is against all the economic paradigms which, at the moment, assume international bodies that are not comparable to our political formation. The International Monetary Fund has already stated that, of course, the economic paradigm does not go beyond applying cuts in situations of economic adjustment. And you pose us, as if it were a logical operation – it is basically the mantra of the 2008 crisis – which, in view of an economic crisis, in view of the lack of collection capacity, taking into account and bearing in mind the economic crisis, governments have to cut. And that's the point. And that's it. We and we don't assume that paradigm. In fact, I have said this to the Government, to the Councillor, and I have said this here when we have had the opportunity to discuss this issue on more than one occasion. I recall that, in the committee in which the draft budget was presented to us, we put on the table the data already put forward by the Airef at that time regarding disagreements made by the Basque Government in the forecasts of the economy. We said to the Basque Government, to the Councilman, that we believed that everything to bet on economic recovery was a mistake. Of course, indeed, we agree on that. That is where we affirmed the need for public leadership. That's where I'm sure we disagree. And why do we disagree? Because for us, the leadership of the public means that if, with the resources available to the Government through collection, it is not possible to deal with the situation and the public spending needed to lead the economic recovery, it is necessary to be indebted, as they are doing in all the countries in our environment, also in view of the easing of the deficit. And you need to get more debt. We, when we told the Basque Government that we felt that it was not doing it properly, because the forecasts that were coming were not the right ones or, rather, the forecasts on which they were based were not the right ones, because we believed that economic recovery could not be linked to the private sector, what we told them was that it was necessary and essential to express the reference rate to the limit even beyond, because it is a reference rate. And the Basque Government replied to us that no, that we were bulldozers and that, in principle, in view of the circumstances, if in the future, in fact, those forecasts were not met and more public spending was needed – we, from the zero minute, thought that it was, that more public spending was needed – we were told that we would already expand public spending capacity through indebtedness by the Basque Government. That's where we disagreed, because you said no, that in the end it has to be paid by future generations, without any doubt. We incorporated the element of tax reform, with which you did not agree. We said that, in parallel with the virtuality of becoming more indebted and being leaders from the public in the economic recovery, at the same time, we had to have a fiscal reform that would allow us to have, in the future, greater tools to deal with that debt that we have incurred, and also so that we would not be caught again by the bull, as it has now caught them, with no capacity or tools to collect more, that I do not hear him say anything at all there. Why are the collection forecasts what they are? For the economic situation, without a doubt, but also because for many years the fiscal project of the Basque Government and the deputies has been the one that has been. Surely, if it had been another, the collection forecasts would be different. I can't hear you say anything about that. I'm sorry, we can't just assume the framework of what needs to be guaranteed in the event of budgetary adjustments. I say to you that we do not assume that there is a need to make budgetary adjustments, and we welcome the fact that neither does the Basque Government. But we also do not want to assume, as if this were a game of seeing who has the most preference, to have to give more support to certain specific sectors, as you say with regard to the productive fabric or the fabric that generates productivity in the country. Yes, of course, we assume that the capacity of SMEs, the self-employed, in short, of medium-sized enterprises to generate economic activity must be guaranteed. But I take it from your words that the cuts apply, if any, to other parts of the budget of the Basque Government. Not those, but other things, yes. So, what other things? Of course, to whom you, your political formation and those who accompany you, have been accustomed to cutting, which is all that has to do with the social state. That is, all that has now served society in the midst of the pandemic to protect us in community terms, is that what you would propose? If you had to decide what we cut, you would argue that that is what needs to be cut. I'm very sorry, but to me those games of hunger, in which we have to decide between the bad and the worse, do not seem adequate when there are other formulas. I know he is going to say – he has already told me on more than one occasion – that what we are proposing is a very simple magic formula that does not correspond to economic paradigms or orthodox theory in economic terms: to be in debt and to draw notes, so, yes, very easy. I know you're gonna come and tell me that. But I'm sorry, I'm telling you that right now even Mr. Biden wants to launch a rescue plan for the American economy. Why do you do it? Why, like the European Union, does it deploy a public funding capacity to lead economic recovery from the public? Why do you do it? Because he is aware that the private sector is only unable to get us out of the situation we are in right now. They don't go back to cuts, they don't go back to budget adjustments. They're not in that frame. They are within the framework of incentivizing the economy, enabling the economy to recover, and of determining, from the public interest and from the perspective of Governments, which sectors need to be empowered in order for productivity to be different, for the development model to be different. In this are the organisms that, surely, are closer or, theoretically, should be closer to their political thinking. You, honestly, I think you're ten years late. He is speaking in terms of 2008, which has already become clear that it is not a socially valid formula to maintain or permit the dignity of people and the vital development of people in a just society. I urge you to allow us to talk on other occasions about what is also a very necessary element and a fundamental tool for us. This is something that we have already transferred to the government and which is included in the government agreement between the Socialist Party and the PNV; this has been transferred to us at some point, even in the budget negotiation. When the time comes for those tax reforms that must be made, to keep in mind our political formation in that negotiation, because we do believe that that is fundamental, not what you are commenting here. You here basically claim that the political formations supporting the government – I guess I didn't expect EH Bildu and we to support such atrocity – held that the exit from the crisis, as it will not be accompanied by the economic recovery of the private sector, will be accompanied by budgetary adjustments, but that these budgetary adjustments, preferably, will not be directed at those sectors that you do not want to be harmed. That is basically the logic that you have come to us with. I'm telling you, it's ten years late. Those are paradigms that no one assumes today. Please note that neither the Councillor, with whom I have many differences, does assume it with regard to economic and budgetary policy, because we have discussed the capacity for indebtedness, which we believe is greater, with regard to fiscal reforms, which we believe could have been done before... But up to that, the Basque Government's Finance Advisor assumes it. Come on, as you will understand, under no circumstances will we be able to vote in favour. And that is where the amendment we have tabled comes from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u56	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Passing over to the non-correction teams, because Mistos isn't there, Euscal Sozialists, Mrs. Corcuera, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u57	Thank you, President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr Gordillo, both the Basque Government and the parliamentary groups that we support the Government base our political action in this XII legislature on the government programme 2020-2024, which is based on three principles: ensuring the health of citizens, reactivating the economy and employment, and leaving no one behind in any of the parameters that define a cohesive society as the best investment in the country. In the programme area of transparent and accountable public management, as regards the management of public resources, the development of which is laid down in 11 initiatives, there are two directly related to his motion. First, develop economic and strategic planning to address the country's major challenges and the three global transitions: energy-environment, technology-digital and health-social. Secondly, to pursue a budgetary policy based on the rigorous use of public resources and the sustainability of public finances, seeking to meet the deficit and debt limits within a flexible framework for adaptation to the economic situation and the economic cycle, in order to ensure social policies and to encourage the response to the economic and employment crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Looking at the debate on your question, given your motion, and having heard your speech, I must say, Mr Gordillo, that the Basque Socialists consider that there is no case in your proposal, in the light of what was explained by the Councilman himself on 26 March, or by the agreements that have been adopted in this House, either by the economic and budgetary management of the Government, or by the actions and policies of the Government towards the sectors most affected by the restrictive measures introduced in the fight against the pandemic. The current economic scenario is highly uncertain and agencies and institutions make forecasts that change in a short time. The main international agencies are presenting a basic scenario, and at least another alternative, more favourable or unfavourable, depending on the speed and effectiveness of the vaccination process. The upward revision of forecasts for the world economy suggests that fiscal, monetary and epidemiological measures improve the basic scenario. Thus, in March, the OECD revised its economic outlook almost broadly. And the Basque Government, known to the fourth quarter accounts and the main variables of the environment, has also updated its forecasts for the period 2021-2022. If something good had its appeal from March 26th – you just said it – is that it gave the advisor the opportunity to explain the new macroeconomic picture for this biennium, which I would politically highlight the fact that if in the previous crisis we need eight years to recover the gross domestic product prior to the crisis, in this case it seems that it is possible that recovery in three years. The initiatives, debates and proposals adopted in this Parliament and which, moreover, contradict your fears – or at least what you say in your motion – have been very numerous since the beginning of the parliamentary term, because the priorities and commitments of both the Basque Government and the groups supporting the Government have been very clear. In September 2020, among other resolutions on mass redundancies in industrial enterprises in Euskadi, we urge the Basque Government to continue to develop an industrial policy in line with the agreements reached by Parliament and to implement actions that contribute to the competitive improvement of enterprises, both in the area of labour mediation and in the strengthening of instruments to help accelerate industrial development, taking into account, moreover, the possibility of activating the existing financial instruments guaranteeing the firm's financial roots and muscle and the concerted policies at the Social Dialogue Bureau. Also in September, with regard to the urgent measures to be taken in respect of special aid for workers affected by ERTE, the Basque Government is urged to maintain the supplementary aid to ERTE under the conditions agreed at the Social Dialogue Bureau. In October 2020, with regard to the initiative on the creation of a comprehensive protocol for the care of firms in crisis, we agreed to urge the Basque Government to continue to facilitate the restructuring of firms in difficulty, through the strengthening of the Bideratu programme and support for the implementation of investments necessary to address the technological transitions in which we are immersed. All this is complemented by actions that favour the relocation and recycling of the affected persons. Also in October, on the planning of the Government in the face of the serious situation in the sectors of trade, tourism and hospitality, the Basque Government's commitment to maintain, adapt and increase economically the lines of aid launched both in the initial phase and in the phase of resistance to the economic impact of the health crisis directed at the sectors of tourism, hospitality and commerce is approved in this Parliament. The Government is also urged to launch new programmes that minimize the impact of the pandemic on these sectors. In November, with regard to the commitment to promote quality employment, we decided that this was a priority axis to ensure the exit from the crisis and to achieve this exit in a fair manner, we urged the involvement of the sectors involved in the recovery and reconstruction of Euskadi in the Berpiztu programme, as well as the social concertation in the new Employment Strategy 2020-2030. Also in November, with regard to the design of a competitiveness plan for Basque companies exporting products, the Government is urged to continue working on the internationalization aid programmes. With regard to the debate on the consequences of the total closure of the hospitality sector by the Basque Government, he was urged to act within the framework of the inter-departmental and inter-institutional table and to address the measures of the resistance plan in tourism, hospitality and trade, also continuing with its relationship with the sector, and to maintain and renew the complements to ERTs. December 2020, on the amendment of the financial programme for small and medium-sized enterprises, individuals and self-employed professionals for the year 2020, calls on the Basque Government to adopt in 2021 a new programme of financial support for SMEs, individual entrepreneurs and self-employed professionals – in addition, I agree with you – which has already been launched since 9 March. February 2021, regarding the implementation of measures to support self-employed people, we approve to urge the competent institutions in each area to continue to provide in a coordinated way the necessary aid to mitigate this impact of the COVID-19, with the aim of safeguarding the maintenance of the economic and labour activities of the professional sectors concerned. With regard to the actions carried out by the Government to help those sectors most affected by the crisis of 2020, in addition to the adoption of the Berpiztu plan, there is a plan for economic, social and business aid at the start of the pandemic, amounting to EUR 841 million. ERTs are complemented and funding lines are established for businesses, SMEs and the self-employed. In the first 100 days this Government, the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs, mobilized €70 million, doubling its budget for these sectors of trade, tourism and hospitality. Budgets 2021 have been approved, with a Covid programme of €542 million. A EUR 21 million tourism support programme has been approved. The support programme for the maintenance of the retail personal equipment subsector of EUR 16 million has been published. The resistance plan of the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumer Affairs, launched to help the hospitality, trade and tourism sectors, already amounts to 107 million euros. Not to mention programmes such as entrepreneurship, which are also receiving support, not only for their promotion, but also for improving competitiveness. An aid scheme for companies, mainly SMEs, worth EUR 433 million has been established, which, in addition to providing aid to those suffering from the consequences of the pandemic, aims to support research projects, digital transformation, internationalisation, energy transition, circular economy or food industry. Therefore, while the forecasts of the Basque economy are adapting to a situation of uncertainty with corrections – in this case downwards by 2021 and upwards by 2022 – there is confidence that the economic data will be positive from April onwards, and no recession is expected for the Basque economy. I'm done. There will be no economic recovery if we do not recover our health. With regard to your motion, Mr Gordillo, both the debates held in this House with pre-pandemic 2020 budgets and the debates and agreements established in this Parliament in 2021 make it clear that the concern and occupation of the Basque Government is economic recovery and employment, helping the economic sectors most affected by the pandemic. It can be said louder, Mr Gordillo, but, of course, no clearer. And I refer to the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. And good morning to all. The discussion of economic growth revisions on the table today, placed by Mr. Gordillo. When they're in the budget, they've brought influences that can specialize in a few sectors' company. But we believe that the Basque People may be affected in different parts, and so the discussion would be in the very nature of the budget. It is known that in making the budgets it is essential to have a number of tips on various parameters. Some will be more optimistic, others more pessimistic, but we must have everything on the table. One must have everything in view to fill up the fundamental principle of practical wisdom in the management of the budget. The next year, as a year, he planned a series of budgets: economic growth, unemployment, tax collection, etc. For all of these parameters, apart from the expectation of fun, there must have been other institutions and other predictions for the surrounding countries. But this time, looking at the year 2021, there was a new parameter, also a new and powerful one: Pandemy. So, in different parts, its influences were fundamental to the preparation of budgets. It's not like the economic crisis we've had in the past few years, our pandemy. It's a crisis beyond the pandemy we've got now. And that's essential in the budget management. The funk, when he introduced the budget, presented his macronomical frame and, as I said, examined the various parameters. So I'm sure he'd even considered the effect of the pandemade. But in that case, it became clear to me that while the budget was arguing the same thing, it became more obvious to me that M.M. We may say that he applied the principle of wisdom in a limited manner. Today we are faced with an initiative by the Basque People-Citizens Group, which, in theory, does no harm to anyone and seeks only the common good. A social benefit that, while it might seem logical, obvious that the industrial fabric of the country has a bigger problem than the COVID, and is to believe that the market fixes everything. When things come wrong, the right always remembers the public, because the invisible hand does not seem to have the solution to an economic stop which was the result of something that no longer worked. An outdated system, an obsolete system, which, instead of being based on the distribution of wealth, is based on theft by theft, on the rescue who can, and on the best of it. And the truth is that it is curious to see the adalides of letting do, of the public sector the smaller the better for everyone, to go to the public sector when the thing doesn't work, to demand help for a system that makes water clear. So, what's the key? So you're taking measures to perpetuate the current economic systems? Or, on the other hand, to set the most obvious social, economic, and ecological changes in order to face this crisis and then to place our people in a better position? I'm just trying to tell you that the process of growth has changed recently, and now it looks like our economy isn't going to grow. The budgets were admitted to this legislature in February. Didn't you see that in February? Yes, you could see, there was nothing to look at. But to do that, you had to want to look at reality, and it was just the moment when you wanted to stop your record. We told the Basque Country that these budgets were made with very positive predictions, their foundation was that we'd return to a certain normal state in the first six months of 2021. "Se lo dijimos en el debatæ presupuestari: "Los datos muestran que lamente, la Crisis sanitaria y sus consecensiis se van aorgar." Por tant, deberíamos dispotner de un presupuresto, de una revengeenta, con la realidad." That's where we said in February at this congressman. We need budgets that answer reality to the situation, the budgets that will respond to the settlement, not the budgets that have eternal priorities, not the budgets that continue intermediary, no longer the budgets that were born to respond to reality and to the big gaps. The data, as has already been mentioned, are very eloquent. From 11 February, the day the budgets were adopted in this Parliament, until the forecasts that the Government itself made public in March, as Mr Gordillo has already mentioned, the forecast for economic growth has fallen two points. In just over a month a two-point fall in the economic growth of the Autonomous Community is set on the table. If this is not to find that the budgets were born beaten, shut down and let's go. To all this we have to add, not only what the economic study offices say, but what is seen on the street, day by day: health data, unemployment, the need for increasing social coverage in many families in our environment, not forgetting basic issues in the productive fabric, Mr Gordillo, such as the struggle of the workers of Tubacex and many other companies in our country, the closure of a lot of business, the fiasco of Euskaltel and a long and so on. That, and not another, is the reality of our society and our economy. And, in view of this reality, what is needed is neither patchwork nor partial commitments, nor is it to save the situation from a possible reduction in income, and to remove from here to put there, without touching a few specific items. The time for the landslides has passed. It happened a long time ago. And it cannot be said, as is being said, that the so-called so-called austerity should be left behind, in order to continue with the same recipes and not to address the need for extra income, for example, with the introduction of a COVID rate, which even the International Monetary Fund itself is proposing, or not to address, once and for all, such a necessary tax reform and at the same time so vilified by the rights of this country. Today, more than ever, the issue of tax revenue needs to be addressed. Because, ladies and gentlemen, there are those in this pandemic who have gained more, much more, even those in this pandemic have become rich. Let's look at the most progressive countries, and let's stop believing in that outdated model of Thatcher and Reagan, because it's much older than 2008, this is already from the 80s, because that can't bring anything good to this country. We are who we are, but we can become what the people of this country want to be, as long as we think of each other as a people. And now is not the time to look at this country for plots. We can't look at the country for plots and focus only on those plots that have the most influence or that have the most media presence on time. We are living in a serious situation, which requires a vision of the country, which needs to face changes in silence that will turn this difficult situation upside down. Therefore, it is essential to observe the true dimension of the moment we live in, the impossibility of resisting the serious economic and social crisis caused by the Pandemies. The situation is very serious, because it's not only a matter of answering a medical emergency, or in response to current economic problems, because the decisions we're making now determine the direction of this country for years. This crisis has yet come to us as the consequences of the previous economic crisis. And this crisis is different because it really has a sanitary crisis. But the budgets which are strong have not given a quaalitative leap, and therefore they do not respond to the crisis over which they are concerned, although, as we requested, they have not touched several games. We are by no means agreed with the budgets, because, in this case, the budgets of 2021 do not fully respond to economic, social, economic, and ecological crisis. So we keep the Basque People in gathering what we said when the budget was done, and we don't think it's enough for us not to touch certain games. It's not enough. For the correction of Podemos has been introduced together, we will tend to abstain from it, because it is referred to the measures of certain funds which we have not been able to protect, and which, as we have said, is the time to go further. And it still has. It was time in February, and it's still on today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief physician. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. As an initial point, I would like, Mr Gordillo, if you will, to have this debate with the Members of Parliament, because you already have the full powers of control to deal with and ask the Councillor. Okay? Leaving this aside, and focusing on the debate, the pandemic has upset the global economic landscape, and its expansion has generated an unprecedented fall in the economy. We therefore share with you the gravity of the moment. We are living in constant uncertainty, with a serious crisis at many levels, one of them the economic one, with a pandemic that has come as a hurricane to the whole planet and that has affected and will affect many sectors. We face waves, bursts that prevent us from moving at the desired pace. Because as long as we can't stop the contagion and the pandemic doesn't show a favorable evolution, the Basque economy, like the rest of the economies, will continue to be devastated and its recovery will not be as fast as all of us would like. Precisely these changes are making the forecasts made by the main agencies change. The overall focus is to lower the expected increase by 2021 and raise the forecast by 2022, i.e. that part of the growth expected for this year is moved to the next one. And they are forecasts made by these bodies, March forecasts. I am pleased with the work of pythonisas from some political groups in this House, who already had this information even before any resurgence or even before the main international bodies made any report or forecast. But what this Department of Economics and Finance has done in the face of this current global economic landscape is to review the macroeconomic picture for the period 2021-2022, in which it underlies a growth of 6.7% by 2021 and 5.7% by 2022, a robust growth. But, as predictions they are, they vary and change according to numerous factors and actors, even more so in a pandemic like the current one. This review demonstrates the ability of this department to adapt to the circumstances of every moment. It has a waist – it's flexible – capacity for action and reaction. It's been a very complicated, very hard year, with too many doubts and uncertainties. But it is resisting, thanks to the work and effort, on the one hand, of public administrations and, on the other, of companies and workers throughout society. Not without difficulty, of course, and also with bad news. We have a lot to do. Yeah. We must continue to progress and rebuild what this terrible pandemic is destroying. But this government has been supporting from the minute one all the economic sectors damaged, with budgetary resources and with special aid lines. And he will continue to respond, because we know that all efforts will be limited to alleviate the burdens that are being borne. We are now in the phase of resistance. And the business world indicates that, although the falls have been historic, employment and the business fabric are holding up relatively well. In any case, they are accompanied now and will be accompanied when the long-awaited phase of relaunch arrives. We have a solid starting point. And it's not good to sin with optimism – I think I'm not doing it – but it's not good to maintain such a critical and pessimistic attitude either. They are well aware of the priorities on the ground that we are dealing with today and now: employment and economic activity, preserving our economy and protecting workers and their jobs. They know the strengths of our fabric. Let us trust all of us in their potential and in the future that awaits us as a country. Recently, the Standard & Poor's risk rating agency awarded the Basque government's debt an outstanding amount. Two points above the state average. A better rating that is justified by Basque fiscal autonomy, that makes it more resilient than Spain and that will allow Euskadi to recover faster. In this regard, they also indicate that, despite the pandemic, Euskadi recorded a stronger budget execution in 2020. Therefore, it is not that I, this government or the Basque Nationalist Party alone say this as Standard & Poor's. I would therefore be grateful if you would not say otherwise in this case, Mr Gordillo, when you are well aware that this government is always, historically, implementing more than 90% of the budget. That's the mark of the house: say and do. In this case, fulfilling and executing the budget, as the data backs us. In the light of this data, and given the actions and priorities of this executive, I do not understand the meaning of the initiative of the Basque People-Citizens Group, and I would have been better able to understand a request aimed at increasing expenditure or aid to the sectors concerned. But not what you're presenting to us today. Because, to be clear, this Government has never intended to reduce budget lines. In fact, the maximum of Euskadi's borrowing capacity will be used to deal precisely with all unforeseen circumstances and thus be able to execute all planned expenditure and investment. Mr Gordillo, we have done so and we have said this with complete transparency and with due respect to this Parliament: the Basque Government will continue to respond to all the needs and difficulties that arise, with the instruments that are already in place and those that will be agreed in the future. In this sense, I have carried out the exercise of reviewing some of the actions undertaken. Although the list is quite long and would exceed my time, I will try to summarize them. The financing line via Elkargi in the amount of 500 million by this 2021, not to mention the 1 billion made available in 2020 to ensure the solvency of viable companies. The budget for 2021, with a COVID programme of EUR 542 million, to which you have said no. Over the next five years, the Basque Government will allocate 1.4 billion to digital transformation in Euskadi. It is necessary to be the lever of innovation and to transform productive sectors constructively for intelligent industrialization 4.0. And that's where we'll be with our strategy. 68 aid programmes for SMEs in the Basque Country, with a budget of 430 million. We are talking about aid for R & D technology, internationalisation, industrial development, entrepreneurship and, among other things, the food industry. In the tourism sector, in January, new support measures were announced with 21 million euros, including as new to travel agencies. On Tuesday 652,000 euros were approved in support of entrepreneurship in tourism. Aid for trade via Bono Dendak. EUR 16 million for the personal equipment sector of the Basque retail trade. Aid that, together with the 70 million of the 2020 Resistance Plan, already reaches the figure of 100 million euros. Also the objectives of formalization by programme, approved by the Council of the Basque Institute of Finance, which have 124 million in tools and financing and about 190 for business participations. Last Tuesday, the Governing Council has already authorized the Basque Institute of Finance to set up the public company Finkatze Kapitala Finkatuz, to manage the Finkatuz Fund, whose social purpose is the acquisition, disposal and management of long-term financial holdings in large companies in Euskadi, to ensure that they maintain their roots here and exercise a tractor character over the whole of the Basque productive fabric, with a capital of 160 million euros. Traditionally, subsidies for social security contributions, leases of business premises, extraordinary subsidies for enterprises for the insertion and establishment of special employment centres, and also, let us not forget, the supplements to the ERTE extended by this Government. It could continue with more sectors not specifically mentioned in its initiative, such as the cultural sector, such as grants for professional productions of performing arts or support for cultural creativity. And all this with a combined strategy, where we re-read the main axis, and Euskadi the next month of transformation program. It is the answer proposed by the Basque institutions to resurrect and resurgent, in order to face the execution of COVID19's pandems and the crisis created in the economy. The common goal is to get all lost jobs back and lower your unemployment at 10%. Euskadi Next is the Basque response, our own proposal to opt for the MRR mechanism of the Next Generation EU funds. It represents an opportunity to accelerate the three major transformations of the future: technological and digital, energy and environmental, demographic and social. Three global transitions. Three great opportunities for Euskadi. Our goal is to anticipate economic and social health after the pandemese. This is not our first crisis. We will, as in others, take advantage of this condition of strengthening, and of continuing it. This is the end of the whole organization and society of euphoria; to work together, to combine public and private coworkers, to advance among them all. That's the neighborhood. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. We're going over to the answering shift. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u63	No atril. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much to all the speakers. I know you're all going to vote against it. I thought so. But, well, I thank Mr Soto for a good debate. Here the truth is that in economic matters we are practically just discussing you and me. The truth is, of course, we do not agree on almost anything. But I like to debate with you, because every time I debate with you it helps me to reaffirm myself even more in what I thought before. Any doubts I might have, sometimes I have them, I automatically get dissipated and dissolved. Mr Azpiazu, ladies and gentlemen of the groups supporting the Government, I believe that the opposition agrees with one thing: the budgets were built a little on the milk story, on forecasts... I understand that you do not like these phrases, because they are very ugly, but they were built on growth forecasts that have not been the real ones. In that we agree with the opposition in general. On the subject of which you have raised, I believe that the opposition can, in general, agree. Then each has, of course, his or her story, his or her proposals and so on. The same pattern is always repeated here. Mr Soto, you and I normally discuss economic issues. Bildu, it depends, sometimes yes and sometimes no, it usually supports you; sometimes it votes for you, sometimes it doesn't. Rather, the Basque theme is always introduced. And the groups that support the Government are government. Mrs. Berrojalbiz complained that I wasn't arguing with her. I love to argue with you, please. But, of course, it is that the mimicry your group has with the Government is such, that I do not even think they realize it anymore, because you, when you speak, say: "In no case has this Government raised". Hey, you're not the government. "We have always treated Parliament with due respect." I have told the government, not you, that you are a member of Parliament. Moreover, the propaganda and institutional publicity of the Government with which its groups flood us is far superior to that of the Government itself. Today I liked Mrs. Corcuera's version much more. What he usually does is make a speech that is, more or less, the updated government plan, with good data and so on. But your version, I joked... Come on, Mrs Corcuera – Mr Azpiazu, in my opinion – has done much better today than Mrs Berrojalbiz, who wants to oppose the opposition by acting as a government, but complaining that I do not treat her as a parliamentarian. Finally, returning to the subject, Mr Soto, I say one thing to you: unfortunately, you are going to take a joy that is a disgrace to our economy, that, probably, during this parliamentary term, the government returns here, to this Parliament, to ask permission – they have no choice but to do so – to extend the debt. You calm down, you'll see how a debt expansion is going to occur. Enlargement and the existence of debt is not a dogma either; it is a matter that must be dealt with delicately, because the debt must be paid. It is very easy to be in debt without tone or are or, not only to be in debt, but to create money directly, giving the machine to make money, and then, especially when it is being made or really being created, you have to return it. But, of course, then we come with "No, it's that debt is illegitimate," "that debt is illegitimate." We've heard that many times. I've heard it from people in your party many times. And since the debt is illegitimate, you don't have to pay it. If you lose confidence in the markets, the truth is that it degenerates a lot. I, therefore, wanted to move to this House – I hope I did – is a wake-up call to the government on the need to update its forecasts. Mrs. Berrojalbiz used to say to me, "You do pythonise." Look, it's just that in October last year, BBVA Research said that the growth forecast was going to be 5.8. When the government was talking about almost 9, the BBVA already said "five." Look, don't call me a python, what happens is that we read our roles and we do our job, which is to control the government and, apparently, control the groups that support the government, which is what this parliamentary work has unfortunately become. That is why, by summarising and returning a little to the initial idea, it is a pity that the groups in this House do not agree on this issue of supporting the productive fabric that has suffered the most. Mr Soto said, and I think that was also said by Bildu's spokesman, that there are other sectors. Obviously. But, man, I think the productive sector has had a particularly bad time. This is not a proposal that seeks at all neither to dismantle the social state, nor to reduce benefits, nor anything like that, what it seeks is to make a recognition. Go now to where the hoteliers, where the self-employed, go now to the business fabric that you have pulled from the little treasury you had, that you have been indebted with your personal assets to carry out the businesses, and tell them not to vote because Mr Gordillo is a bit of a binder. 2.5 billion debt we put in 2021. The forecast for VAT collection has fallen by almost 15% by 2020. Indeed, since you are here, Mr Councilman, to see when the implementation of the budget brings us, the closure of 2020. With this proposal, and with this end, what was intended was simply to put this Parliament into value and, above all, to highlight the need to cable the productive sector, which we only remember when we have to collect, and that has emerged in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u64	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Together the representative of the Podemos-IU team, Mr. Soto, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u65	Good again. Mr Gordillo, see if you have been listened to today with regard to one of the three initial points of your speech, that of transparency, which the parliamentary groups supporting the Government have come to exercise transparency. They've told us about a retahíla of programs, welcome be some. But it takes time to be able to talk about each one of them, because surely we would mattify many things about many of them. Of course, they list here 200 programmes with economic figures; I tell you that we have to be nuanced. As I said, and in that we agree, Mr Gordillo, not only do we reaffirm ourselves in the opposition, I also believe that we agree on specific occasions, and this is one. It is true that it is an advertising exercise that certainly does not go to the point of substance. On the substantive issue, this debate we have already had, we had it precisely when the Basque Government has already brought about an amendment to the Budgets Act of 2020, and you were very surprised because we and we abstained when the borrowing capacity of the Basque Government had to be expanded or expanded, precisely to compensate for the loss of budget collection, or the forecast in the 2020 budget. I don't know if he'll remember. We abstained precisely because we considered that the only thing the Basque Government intended with that degree of indebtedness was to balance the accounts, that is, to maintain the same level of expenditure as they had foreseen in the 2020 budget, despite the fact that there was a pandemic. It is true that this amendment raised the budget by some millions of dollars. Of course, it was not the figure that we considered necessary for an economic recovery, in view of the worst historical moment that was lived in this country, in a pandemic. That debate has already taken place. You were surprised because we abstained. Yes, we abstained because we felt that we had to go further, we thought it was not enough just to balance the accounts, with the collection forecast going down and, in order to sustain the collection forecast figures, we would be in debt to stay in zero. We thought that in a moment like the one we lived we had to go beyond. Indeed, I agree with you. We will certainly find a change that addresses further indebtedness on the part of the Basque Government. Welcome. But I'm already telling you that I'm sure – and I don't want to be a python in this case – that we'll be abstaining again, because I'm sure it'll just come back to impact on the drop in collection, that's all. With regard to some of the points that were made, some of the things that Mrs Berrojalbiz said, I would say that there were data. I remember – and I said this in my first speech – that when we were in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the draft budget was presented, several groups already mentioned here to certain bodies, including the Airef – as I said in my first speech – which spoke of discordant data regarding the forecasts made by the Basque Government and the forecasts made by them and by them, and they were not the only ones. And that data was also kept by the Basque Government. I guess I'd have them even better, sure. So, what happens to the organisms I'm naming, not us, giving this data, this data forecast? I hope the Basque Government would have them better, but it wanted to put in those forecast figures that were not real. They were not real, in view of the successive progressive changes that have been taking place in the economic forecasts of the Basque Government. Yes, we believe that we are likely to go to greater indebtedness, because those forecasts that are being given, or that have been given, are likely to get worse, because right now one of the elements that sustain the economy is the ERTE. Yes, the ERTE, a social shield raised and launched by the state coalition government. When the ERTEs disappear, we will see what economic forecast the Basque Government puts on the table. In any case, we believe that the bottom-up positioning of your political formation and ours is diametrically opposite. The logic that leads you to think that the debt then has to be paid and that it does not result in economic growth and a recovery of the productive sector, I don't know where it comes from. We argue that there is an economic recovery of the productive sector on the basis of indebtedness, because economic recovery is led from the public side along with the private sector, and that this contributes to the stabilization of the economy and that, afterward, such stabilization of the economy allows, in fact, greater collection, provided that the fiscal structure is adequate. You say, "No, we're in debt, and then that money's gonna have to pay for it." So what? Doesn't debt produce anything positive? Nothing? In other words, debt is automatically a negative approach. It seems to me that this is an absolutely wrong paradigm and that they are not in those international bodies which have nothing soviet or socialcommunist, much less, but are bodies which, in fact, on many occasions, maintain absolutely neoliberal positions like yours. I'm telling you, review those approaches because I think you're wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u66	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u67	Thank you, President. Mr Gordillo, you wanted to bring the circumstances of the change in the budget's economic forecasts to the realm of political confrontation over the budgets that your parliamentary group did not want to negotiate. They were based on a justification then pilgrim, because they considered that there was already a budgetary agreement with another parliamentary group; which had neither happened nor happened. Its amendment to all budgets did not succeed, and I remind you that it was an identical amendment that had been tabled for the year 2020, when there was not even the possibility of a pandemic in the political conscience. So from adaptations to realities, of course, they won't be able to give us lessons. They did not even raise in their partial amendments such amounts as the shock plan put forward by the hospitality industry, not even that. The implementation of economic tools by our Government, together with the proactive decisions of Europe and Spain to resist the pandemic and reactivate the economy and employment in the countries that have been most affected by this health crisis, have made it possible to cope with the situation in the Basque Country. That can't be forgotten. Nor can we forget that there have been solvent public accounts that have prioritized health and that have maintained economic activity and employment with policies aligned with the Government of Spain and also with Europe. Don't forget us. Today in Euskadi we have budgets adapted to a pandemic situation, to intervene and to act the Basque economy. We will like it more or we will like it less, but those budgets are adapted, they are made in a pandemic situation. And this allows us to resort, if necessary, to the use of maximum borrowing capacity. It also allows us to have additionality in the budgets of the European funds and the commitment by the Basque Government to prudent management of these budgets, to rigorous management and to responsible management. The strategic areas of the Basque economy are perfectly identified by the Government. The Government has a clear road map, established through its management programme, through the Berpiztu programme and through the Euskadi Next, for the economy to resist and cope with the consequences of this pandemic. In your first presentation, you commented on the three parameters on which your motion was based: transparency, respect for procedure in Parliament and the need to help the productive sectors. It's not just that we agree, it's that we're already doing it. It is being done by parliamentary groups, at least the Basque Socialists, and also by the Government, which sends the information that we can even contrast. Furthermore, there has been no case in which at least we have heard that it has been decided to go against the productive sectors. There's been no case. I therefore reiterate your motion, Mr Gordillo. The Socialists are convinced that the best response and the best solution to the needs of citizens, of course, is to align policies. It would be frankly incomprehensible that at a time of crisis, at a time of serious health and economic crisis, every government would do what it wanted at every level, even with contradictory policies. So I would value something that you have not done: that Europe began this pandemic with policies to encourage and stimulate the economy of the countries that had been most affected by the pandemic itself. That you come today to raise a motion in the opposite direction to what Europe itself has done does not seem very welcome to me, let me tell you that. Incentives and incentives were necessary, as Europe has done; not adjustments, as happened in 2008. Finally, Mr Gordillo, I believe that what you have achieved today with your initiative is to overturn the positions of all the groups in this House with regard to our position in the budgets. That's what he's got. I do not know whether that satisfies you more or does not satisfy you anything, but, of course, it has achieved absolute immobility in the positions that we all put forward in relation to the 2021 budgets. That's what he's got. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u69	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Gordillo, Mrs Corcuera told him in her last sentence what she thought she had achieved, that it was that each group should rocate; she also got us to have ten minutes of public reporting. Because, Mr. Soto told you, they put everything on the table. But, look, by chance – and this is true as my name is Leire – I was told yesterday by one person: "Read, I have been waiting for the ERTE complement of the Basque Government for three months." Three months. For some it will be minute sin, probably because you don't need it. But that person needed it. So, among all these great phrases and all these great proposals, although I am sure that many of them can serve and serve, there are others that have their nuances, their problems and their effects on people, beyond what we are told and sold. Mr. Gordillo, you and I hadn't discussed it yet. We'll get to know each other, don't worry, we'll get to know each other and see where we are. But I agree with you on an issue that I believe was underlying in your proposal: you said that budgets were born with the tale of milk. I'd say inflated, directly. But do you know what one of the issues that has not allowed me to support your proposal? Tell me that, in view of the need to adjust the expenditure, we have to do a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a... We will not support that from EH Bildu in any way, because we have been defending another type of budgetary policy for years. Now I was listening to some interventions, and sometimes it seems like it's been a century, but it hasn't been that long. That the government has never intended to make adjustments or reduce budget lines, "the policies of inflating oxygen into the economy"... In the previous legislatures, in the previous legislature and even in the previous one, when we were in the midst of a brutal crisis in this country, we came up with proposals to breathe oxygen into the economy and they told us that it did not touch, because the policies to be applied were the austeridides. Some seem to have now dawned with the fact that austerid policies were a mistake. You're still a little bit on the way. But, surely, they will come, because if even the IMF starts to signal intelligent life, maybe we can talk about that. About taxation, you've ended up saying very little. I believe that this is one of the basic issues to be discussed in this country. The same is true of debt, because the issue has also emerged. We can be here talking a lot of time on this subject, which I find exciting. But it cannot be that we have fiscal policies almost prior to the previous crisis, because what was done in the previous crisis was a small varnish and little more, in an economic and social situation that needs bold steps that are not being taken. They're not giving up and they're still denying it. When EH Bildu and other groups raise these issues here, the largest one is denied. Then they will come, as now, with the austere, ten years later, saying, "We have discovered the panacea." Ten years later, there are too many people on the road, unfortunately. As for something else you've put on the table, the productive fabric, I agree with you. The productive fabric is fundamental in this country, of course it is. The workers who have left Tubacex today to come to Vitoria, many of whom are already on the street, today, with the letter of dismissal on the table, all these people are also important. The shops you said were closing, of course they're fundamental. But will it really help what is envisaged in this budget, per se, or what you present in this proposal? Mr. Gordillo, I'm sorry, but no.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. I should like to inform you that, after the vote on the motion, you have here a survey of the assessment of parliamentarians. I know Mrs. Corcuera is winning me, but what are we going to do to her? Focusing on this, our accounts presented before this pandemic an enviable solidity, with the smallest indebtedness of the entire Spanish state and with surplus since 2017. The pandemic is catching us with healthy accounts that have been able to respond to the tensions generated over the past year. But, as in everything, there has been a lot of change, depending on the evolution of the economy and the figures and reports available at every moment, because there have been many reports at all times, not just that of Airef that is quoted here today. On this basis, a budget of EUR 12,442 million was drawn up for 2021. Real budgets, no "milk tale" or "inflated" or anything. Real figures, real projects, cash facts and cash and sound figures. As a member of the Basque Nationalist Party, I come to defend what this motion demands, neither public reporting nor self-congratulation. I have come to justify the support for the business and industrial fabric that this Government maintains and that this parliamentary group will always support. And not just from now on. Let's look at the past: industrialization, when the industry was dirty. There we were. Therefore, I come here to defend what that motion demands and what we are already doing. Let it be clear that at no time – here I link myself to the initiative of the Basque People's Group's motionCitizens – this government has intended to reduce these budget lines. In fact, as I said in my first speech, the maximum of Euskadi's borrowing capacity will be used to deal precisely with all unforeseen circumstances, to implement all planned expenditure and investment and to strengthen the capacity to act. And for a sample, a button, in case you have any doubts. The recent issuance of sustainable bonds, worth EUR 1 billion, will enable the Basque Government to strengthen its solid financial situation and to have more resources for the future, without forgetting that the November issue was internationally recognized with two prizes. I insist that the Basque Government will continue to respond to all the needs and difficulties that arise, with the instruments that are already in place and those that will be arbitrated in the future. And, in addition to the comments made in my first speech, I would like to quote, for the relevance of today's debate, the investments envisaged in the preferred areas of action, an extraordinary investment plan of 180 million euros to boost some twenty tractor projects in the disadvantaged regions or areas of preferential action in Meatzaldea, Enkarterriak, Oarsoaldea and Aiaraldea. This money is in addition to the more than $190 million in projects that are already being invested from the Government Departments. We are convinced that this additional impetus will be decisive in transforming the most disadvantaged regions. Therefore, if you consider what is indicated in my first speech, and as you can see from what I have just mentioned, this Government has identified the strategic areas of this country and has worked intensively with other Basque institutions and with the Basque economic and social fabric. Our route is well marked, with the focus on transformation and economic reconstruction. A country bet. We will put all the necessary resources and all our efforts to move forward further. Don't have any doubts. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Now that the discussion has ended, we shall put the original text of Mr. Gordillo Pérez's motion to the vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 65; the supporters 7; the opponents, 58; the abstainments, 0; white, 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u73	So, not allowed original text. Next, we vote together for the full correction of the Podemos-IU team. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly were 43; 75; the supporters of 6; the contrary, 48; the Abscesssion, 21. white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u74	So, it's not allowed to make an integer correction. Forth point on the theme list: "Another proposal made by the parlamentary team, about using lists of people who have received COVID-19's vaccination. Discipline and final resolution. Ms. Martín, representative of Misto, has the word to introduce and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u75	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. After many months of pandemic, arbitrary and fruitless management, enormous and obvious citizen frustration, the vast majority of Spaniards turn all their hopes in vaccination, in those vaccines that come with droplets, some under the shadow of doubt, and in doses that most of us do not know how and, above all, when we will be inoculated. We are already seeing how there are two types of people: those who are vaccinated and those who are not. Well, we also have those who have received the first dose of AstraZeneca and it is not known if they will receive the second dose, if that second dose will be of another brand, if they will have to comply with the immunity provided by that first dose... But basically there are two: vaccinated and not vaccinated. Moreover, it is likely that, in view of the next summer, people's freedom of movement depends on this circumstance: whether they are vaccinated or not. But what is going to happen in the workplace? Because we have precedents of work discrimination based on sex, age, race. What we seek with this non-law proposal is to prohibit the dissemination of lists of vaccinated persons or, which is the same, of non-vaccinated persons. It is a necessary step to prevent this type of information and that this also becomes a tool of labour discrimination, something which is not only reprehensible but absolutely illegal. We have a precedent, that of the president of the Region of Murcia, in favour of making these lists public, even if this would violate the most elementary principles of the Organic Law on the Protection of Personal Data, in force in our country. Fortunately, that madness seems to have fallen into oblivion. But the risk of labour discrimination is an irrefutable reality. We have an example in the case of staff in Osakidetza, also staff in educational establishments who, for whatever reason, have declined to be vaccinated. Does this condition condition your location in one or another job? Does the law allow that to happen? And what happens to workers considered essential who have ruled out vaccination, who have received only one dose of AstraZeneca or who have not yet had access to the vaccine? We know that being vaccinated or not already conditions to get a job in some private socio-health centers, something absolutely illegal, in addition to being devoid of all logic, because the vaccine does not prevent the transmission of the virus, only the most serious effects of the disease. But these things happen. We have already seen and heard a lot of news about an unvaccinated worker as the cause of a chain of contagion in a vaccinated residence, when we all know that the matter does not work that way, but the stain of suspicion, blame, has already been poured on the worker in question. An injustice, sure, with serious consequences for the person concerned. This too should be avoided. It is also a practice we should fight against, especially at a time when vaccination is not only a choice, but depends primarily on the availability of doses and the management of the administrations of each of the 17 existing vaccination protocols. Having said that, it seems clear that being vaccinated or not is something that can encourage or discourage the employer. It is also something that can be used for its own benefit by an employee who opts for a particular job. It is a human behavior to take advantage of circumstances for its own benefit. It's best to avoid this before it happens. That's why Vox is presenting this non-law proposition. A number of issues need to be taken into account in this regard. Vaccination is not mandatory. It's something that every person decides. In fact, in successive influenza vaccination campaigns, the percentage of people vaccinated barely exceeds 60%, a very low level, compared to 30%, in the case of healthcare professionals. They have always been contrasted vaccines. In addition, distrust grows thanks to constant waves around the AstraZeneca vaccine. They are more than reasonable doubts, amplified by the health and non-health authorities committed to sending contradictory messages to the population. Under the current circumstances, most people have no chance of getting vaccinated, even if that was their wish. There are many thousands of people who have to wait for the Administration to decide when it is their turn, those who have to wait for vaccines to inoculate them. And it is the responsibility of the Administration, moreover, to ensure compliance with the law, also to ensure the non-discrimination, I repeat, of any person on grounds of sex, race or age. Better to ban the use and use of lists of vaccines than to act once they have been used. And everyone here knows that if we don't put in the necessary means, the information about whether someone is vaccinated or not will impact on people's employability or not. It is illegal to ask a candidate for a job whether he is vaccinated or not. It is information that should not be included in a curriculum vitae and that, in any case, should also be ignored by the employer. This pandemic is changing many things, and this is also happening through the imposition of facts, without information, debate, or discussion of any kind. It is changing many things, and this change is becoming more and more tax and less democratic. Relations are also changing with companies, with active workers and with others at ERTE, with companies at serious risk of disappearance. The reality today is quite different from that of something more than a year ago. Needs and demands too. And we could also talk about this tremendous misconception that the various vaccination campaigns are under way, about the constant changes in strategy, about those headlines on adverse effects, about irresponsible political discourses, about the disparity of opinions between leaders and between experts, about how, despite all this, they demand confidence from a population that is increasingly distrustful. Having said that, I insist, the decision whether or not to take the vaccine must be free, and never become an issue that allows any discrimination, not even work. And this is especially important in the socio-health sector, one of the most exposed to the virus. Where any measure that can reduce the vulnerability of older persons is taken into account, where being vaccinated could be considered a necessary condition for access to a job. We have brought this proposal to the Basque Parliament as an attempt to prevent such situations from happening again, in order to provoke a debate which is not taking place and which is also absolutely necessary. We want to know the views of the opposition groups and, above all, those who support the Government and have no objection to dismissing any input from the rest of the parliamentary representatives to impose theirs. Obviously, we're not here to churn. We represent Spain at dawn and we care about matters that really affect people. And today we ask the groups represented in this chamber to support a motion in which I believe we can all agree at least. We want to hear alternatives, we want to discuss them. We want to do something that our society needs. Failure to do so will pave the way for everyone's hope to become also a tool for discrimination. Last weekend, we heard the president of the government, dressed as a candidate for the Madrid Assembly, cry out: "freedom is vaccination". Vaccinate, vaccinate and vaccinate. And I would ask you: What is it to decide not to get vaccinated? What is it like to live without a vaccine because you're one of the last on the list? Mr Sánchez, identifying vaccine with freedom is also the opposite: denying that freedom to anyone who, for whatever reason, is not vaccinated. And these reasons may be the inoperativeness of an Administration that has shown little effectiveness and even less effectiveness. To be a Democrat is to defend the Constitution, the freedoms that the Magna Charter recognizes to all people, and it also obliges to respect the law in force and to agree on measures when there is a real risk of non-compliance with the law, when there is evidence of non-compliance. Let us do something so that this does not happen, that being or not vaccinated is not a cause of discrimination of any kind, either social or work.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u76	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. Passing over the uncorrected teams to the popular Euskal Group-Ciudad, Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u77	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government. Well, there is a non-legislative proposal before this Parliament on an issue which I believe is also of great interest, on an issue which I not only understand will have been debated and debated in committee, as I have been able to follow, but which has also been discussed socially: how to carry out or manage vaccination processes also from the point of view of fundamental rights. The proposal that has been put forward essentially provides for recognition of a legal obligation that already exists, which is to prohibit the use of the distribution and spread of lists of persons who are vaccinated. The issue of vaccination has always given rise to certain debates in all modern societies. It is well known that in some countries there are debates by certain anti-vaccine groups, which state that vaccines are an invention of large multinationals to feed themselves at the expense of people's health, that vaccines are also a way of government, even almost to control you or to insert some types of viruses to then have you controlled and such. This, unfortunately, I'm not making up, but it's reality. In the European context in general, society has the good qualities of vaccination processes, which are often managed, in addition, from the public sector and from public health. However, from a constitutional and fundamental rights point of view, in my view, two types of question can be raised: the first is whether there is a right to refuse vaccination and the second would be precisely whether the Government or public administrations can use this data, even by publishing it, almost by creating lists of the shame, of those who do not want to be vaccinated, if that is the majority opinion. On the first issue, the right not to be vaccinated, of course, the constitutional systems end up recognizing it. What happens is that, of course, this may lead to the establishment of some kind of official notebooks from which you are vaccinated and from which you are not vaccinated and, therefore, to close or have an excuse to close or to be able to limit certain benefits or the participation of these people in certain activities. And this is where the debate is, which is quite interesting from a legal point of view, although the final conclusion is that the right not to be vaccinated with all the responsibility that this entails is finally recognized. There are some issues that affect minors. According to the case law, as you already know, intervention can take place at certain times, but in principle it is the parents who decide in general terms. In my opinion, the doubt is not so much whether to be vaccinated or not to be vaccinated. We must be vaccinated, and I believe that public representatives must send a positive message to the population that we must be vaccinated and, above all, it is up to the public authorities to ensure that vaccines actually meet all the conditions for their administration. A small reflection, ladies and gentlemen, not only in our case of Euskadi. In any other autonomous community, in Spain, in Europe, in general, the fact is that the vaccination process is being very slow. Public health is proving that it has a great challenge here, which is to achieve much faster vaccination processes, because, as has been said before in other debates, the achievement of what is called group immunity, herd immunity, is going to be very positive in the recovery of the economy and in the recovery of a certain social normality, which is also very necessary. This also has consequences for psychology and diseases or conditions that have a rather psychological character. Some group, by the way, brought this to the Congress of Deputies, in my opinion, very well. I therefore believe that public representatives have to claim the need for vaccination and the need to send a positive message to the population that it is necessary to be vaccinated and that it is necessary to achieve that group immunity in order to ensure the safety of all. But even if your proposal does not come forward, Mrs Martínez, that does not mean that the Government and the public administrations do not have the obligation you have placed here in writing; they will continue to have it, because according to the Spanish Constitution, specifically under Article 18.4, which is understood to provide for the protection of personal data, the organic legislation that has just been reformed, the Personal Data Protection Regulation, already provides for the unlawful. These types of lists can be established, because, of course, public health would have to have the list, who has been vaccinated, who has not, in order to manage the process, but what cannot be done is neither to publish them nor to establish first- and second-class citizens' books with this. Therefore, I say to you, even if it does not come forward as a political motion, it is guaranteed that it will be implemented. It is also guaranteed its compliance, and its non-compliance – it is worth remembering briefly and with this I am ending – is subject to sanctions, not only of an administrative nature, but also of a criminal nature. Therefore, the distribution and spread of lists of vaccines by COVID-19 or any other type of vaccine is, of course, illegal, contrary to European legislation, and contrary to the Spanish Constitution itself. We therefore move that we vote positive, I read your proposal, which is also simple to read: "The plenary of the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to prohibit the use, distribution and spread of lists of vaccines by COVID-19". We will vote for consistency, because even the groups voting against will have no choice but to respect this, because these are rules, are constitutional rules, are European rules and are also, why not say, international rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u78	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Podemos must not speak together; the Basque Socialist, Signor Rico, mustn't speak, not even the EH Collectors, nor the Eucobertians. We'll take the answers turn. Miss team, Mrs Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u79	Thank you, Madam President. I was surprised that none of them intervened, as they usually do, but they must be very tired today. In the last plenary session, before this long, inactive Holy Week, we discussed here a proposal by Bildu for, among other things, the urgent elaboration of a vaccination programme in Basque, clear, precise and public. Like all the previous ones presented by the opposition groups, it did not go forward, all in the normal way so far. This government, which is said of dialogue and agreement, is a mixture of hammer and roller, it is obvious. The amazing thing is that none of you blushed, not even a little. Days ago, Vox brought to this House a very similar proposal with identical objectives, with the obvious and crisping intention that the Basque Country should come out of the queue of Spain in percentages of vaccination, that the population could be made an idea of what the future holds for it, that the Basque Government should end the waves that, among other things, are generating great distrust among the population. In addition, Mr Tellería very rightly recalled this when he intervened in Bildu's proposal and not in ours. What Democrats! The pulcros representatives of the PNV, this party that goes to Madrid to distribute classes of democracy, Podemos, the extreme left that has set itself as the goal to end the regime of 78, with the democracy of this country, and Bildu, these people who few days ago recognized and praised publicly the founder of ETA, did not dignify themselves to debate and, to top it off, voted against what weeks later they brought and supported. This is amazing. It is a manifestly undemocratic attitude. It's political marketing. It is a fraud for all the people who by their vote set up this Basque Parliament, a fraud for their own voters, many of whom are interested in you in this House taking back the proposals of the bad or bad official who, in this case, is the Member of Parliament for Vox. Today the scene is repeated again, acting in front of his gallery: to mark a profile as if we were in an electoral campaign; to turn our backs on the interests of the population, of which he voted and of which he did not; to ignore the needs of those who have been suffering this pandemic for many months and the painful management of the Basque and Spanish governments and the tiring pace of the vaccination campaign in which we have placed all our hopes. Do you really believe that the fact that Vox is the party proposing to ban the lists of vaccines against COVID-19 supports their rejection? Are they really telling me? No, ladies and gentlemen, under no circumstances. It just shows that you play politics and refuse to do politics. This same week we had the opportunity to read to the Goebbels of progressive supremacism, to one of the theoretical leaders of the left dictatorship, Mr.Maestra, once again demanding information control for the media to silence more than three million people, all those who in the last electoral contests have deposited their vote in Vox. Progressive democracy or progressive dictatorship. Today, once again, this Basque Parliament, which is showing a worrying futility, is going to turn its back on a proposal for the mere fact that it is Vox's. It doesn't matter if it's good or bad, it doesn't matter if it's necessary or not, it doesn't matter if it's going to give free rein to those who doubted whether or not to use the vaccination for their own benefit: the employer who prefers to hire people vaccinated in anticipation of long breaks, the worker who will use their vaccination status as an advantage in the competition to get a job. This is what there is and nothing else. And here there is neither fascism nor progressive left nor right; there are a number of groups that take the lead in a manifestly anti-democratic exercise, the only consequence of which is to give free access to the use of the lists of vaccines against COVID-19. Sooner or later, one of you will bring some initiative to this Parliament in this same direction. You will all soon have to regret, moreover, that you did not act to prevent labour discrimination against people because of the circumstantial fact that you were not vaccinated. It is absolutely regrettable what is happening in this House thanks to you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u80	Thank you, Mrs Martínez. It's Basque Popularo-Ciudadnos's turn. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u81	Thank you, President. I was not going to intervene in this second round, but I think it is necessary to do so today in this House, as a parliamentarian, as a constitutionalist and as a person. This health cord that most of the parliamentary groups in this House have put on one of the groups that have participated democratically in an electoral process and that have pulled out a parliamentarian by the district of Vitoria, this health cord that you have imposed here, deciding who are good and who are bad... But what did they think? We have a parliamentary group that has not yet condemned the violence of ETA and are going to dinner with them some of the groups or almost all the groups present here. We have not yet validated that subject. And it turns out that Mrs Martínez is, no longer the ugly one, the parliamentary rudeness, no longer the emptiness, but simply pointed out by the party to which she belongs and denied her the right to confront her ideas. I don't like most of the ideas Mrs. Martinez defends, it's that I don't like them. We have ideas and we have completely distant principles in education, in economics, in the territorial distribution of power, even in political matters, almost historical interpretation, but well, I come here and debate with it. What's going on? Where are the Republican values they said they were defending this morning? What's going on? Is not the value of dialogue and confrontation of ideas a republican value? Come here. I would love to see how the Socialist parliamentary group, really, tells socialist voters in Andalusia, in Madrid – who are now on the electoral campaign – or in any other autonomous community in Spain, that they are making a void for it. Look, how nice we are that we are pointing out to these who are very bad, and we make the parliamentary vacuum to a group and we are not doing it to Bildu. It's just that I'd love to see how they justify that, even to their own voters.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u82	Mr. Gordillo, Mr. Gordillo. I think it's very good for me to have your speech...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u83	President, I'm using my right and I'll be right there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u84	I think it's very good for me to have your speech...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u85	This thing they're doing...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u86	Would you please shut up? [[Berber]] Would you please shut up? [[Berber]] Please, will you shut up? [[Berber]] Fat yellow. [[Berber]] Mr. Gordillo, shut up. [[Berber]] Shut up, Mr. Gordillo. [[Berber]] Second, you're going out in the tribar. [[Berber]] Mr. Gordillo, shut up. [[Berber]] Mr. Barrio, you have no word. Mr. Barrio, you have no word. Second, you're going out on the third floor. [[Berber]] Mr. Barrio, it's over. [[Berber]] Mr. Barrio, that's enough. Okay? [[Berber]] Mr. Barrio, that's enough. Okay. We've ended our discussion and we'll vote with the original text of our proposition as well as the Misto team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 43; the votes given, 74; the supporters 7; the contrary, 67; abstaining, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u87	So, not allowed original text. I've got till half-past three. It was two o'clock in the afternoon. At three-thirty-two o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u88	Good afternoon, everyone. Five point in theme list: "Go and collect the proposition as a parlamentary group, to confess the permanent covid, to study, and to integrate it into the health of health. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the proposed team, Mrs. Ubera, representative of the EH Collect group, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u89	Good afternoon, everyone. Before my speech starts, I want to welcome the Long Covid Basque Country, members of the Convid Consistor, to the legislature, to your house, because it belongs to all of us. I want you to know that the gates of the legislature are open, and that we are here whenever you like. We, at least, will endeavour to hear your petitions, and to advance them, because what you ask is reasonable, because it is logical, and a problem for the public to answer. It's clear that during the 13 months, since pandemia began, you've been the biggest ones, not the only ones, unfortunately, have been forgotten a lot in all these months. But even if it's late, it's time for EAE to confess the disease of the constant covid, so that the members of your illness should be burnt and seen, to place them on a political schedule, to place them in the office of health. Confession is necessary, because, if there is no confession, it is difficult to arrive at the measures which are to be established and to be taken. Therefore, in our proposal today to discuss, we begin from confession. At the first point we receive the confession of disease called EAE covid persistent. The World Medical Organization has confessed. For the first time in August he began to speak of a permanent covid, and in September, not only by a communication, but by an emphasis on the gravity of the disease, he called to take specific measures, to know the effects of the patient's care, and the age of viruss. From that time on, there's been a machine in international class, many countries have also confessed to long covid or permanent covid. Even then, our collective associates were here, and we were informed that the Chamber of Great Britain had accepted, or that the Parliament of Navarre had also confessed to Covid on September 30th. We have not yet been able to confess this illness in the US, or in the legislature, or in the government. And, really, it's sad and it should make us think of something. But, if we get closer in time, we see that we have a scientific-technical report from the Ministry of Health, the Center for the Coordination of Alerts and Health Emergencies, of January 15, where we can read different assessments about the disease of the persistent covid. We can read questions such as: "A percentage of people describe prolonged and recurrent symptoms for weeks or months after the first episode of COVID-19, regardless of its severity. Although what is meant by persistent covid or long covid has not yet been precisely defined, it seems clear that it is an entity that affects a large number of people and is therefore having a great health and social impact on the pandemic." And another example: "The symptoms and signs reported by people with persistent covid are extremely numerous and varied, adding complexity to the syndrome in terms of its diagnosis and its multidisciplinary health care requirement. The symptoms most frequently described by devices and systems are described in the table." And I'm not going to announce what's in the table, I could go on, but I'm not going to bore you with explanations from technical documents. But what I wanted to make clear is that persistent covid disease is recognized, found. While in our community you want to pull forward as if it did not exist, leaving aside, in oblivion, hundreds of people, let alone thousands of people. Zergatik? Agian izango da hemen, 13 hilabete Ostean, Gobernuak jarraitzen duelako urgentan erantzuten, gai izán gabe gaixotasunaren erpin guztiei heltzeko? Edo Osasun Saila ez dellako gai izan pandemicren bilakaerara egokitzen joateko? We're looking at the Pandemia's management as the Medical Department is responding to its results. And he has difficulty in predicting the scenarios that come forward. But a permanent covid has nothing to do with it, and has not yet arrived at the subject, or at least has shown us the ability to make a move in this sense, whether the discussion of the present day is useful, and the government answers to what initiative it will take. Apart from confession, we have attempted to collect the necessary measures of collective representation in this house. On the one hand, apart from confessing it, we have to define the whole course of the Osamental procedures, that is to define the course for diagnostics, attention, treatment, and follow. Not only define, but develop, because in documents the contents and protocols can be very nice, but if they are not developed, we find ourselves at the beginning. So these sick people need to have a clear route to minding the Osalans. And this route begins with first attention. This requires a first strong attention, a ready access to the health system, formation, information, and resources. But what shall I tell you about the first state of attention? We've talked a lot of this house very carefully before, and the pandemy was already very touched, and the pandemo gave her the tip, didn't she? The concept of first attention doesn't exist anymore. So we need investment to get our first attention together. What do we need besides that route? We need format to develop those protocols that are defined and those careers properly. That is to say, to come to all such instructions as are defined above, and to develop as they ought, and not to be attentive to one or the other according to your professional health. In a number of autonomys, when this attention is to be dissected, the units are beginning to form. For instance, in Catalonia the unit has been produced, even in Navarro and Andalluzi. Here also we ought to consider this: how we design this trajectory to be complete integration. But let it not happen that the EAE Islands are there, and that by the place where you live there is one or the other. We need a network to learn from each other to share our knowledge and improve our investigation. That, in a way. On the other hand, we need an investigation. We need to open our investigation lines to find out why this disease is happening, but we need an investigation to define treatments. To improve, of course. If, then, you realize, the course or process or the principles are very clear; confession, attention... Also, attention begins with diagnosis. Consider that the diagnosis in this disease is very difficult to define because there are many symptoms and very different. It's important. Then the formation would be the fourth, the study; and the fifth, the management of the Babus. For patients who have a permanent Covid, you need a code of their own. You have to have a code. I don't like comparisons, but I have to put them on. The Catalunian code has been coded, and the World Organization of health itself accepts the code of disease. Here the citizens who suffer this disease are subject to terrible problems. With vision too: You're asking them to do a diagnosis. And how do you make diagnosis? Every doctor does what he can. It's a very multiple symptoms. Besides, there were some who were at their own moment made a PCR, others weren't... Let's remember, in the first wave, they had to stay home. There are also false negatives, but the symptoms are there, and for a long time. There are times when symptoms disappear, but then, after a while, they appear. If we don't establish a code for the disease, it makes everything difficult. It makes everything difficult, and, furthermore, it invisibizes the disease. So we should be back at the starting point: without the confession of the patient of permanent covid, invisibised and rejected. A circle. So, that's why every process and every part of it is important. Today we ask the Government to take the lead to give us the steps we have mentioned. It is time to take this matter seriously, take action and take steps. We know that it is going to take some steps in regard to the inquiry, but we still have a very long way of paying attention, we have not even made confession, and there is a great deal of work to do. And when we take our steps, there is nothing new to be invented: We can copy and paste. Look at what is happening in the surrounding villages, what they're doing in countries: copy and paste. And if you want to innocise it, import it, copy it, and paste it into it. But please start moving. That's what we're asking the government today. We know that today the EH Collector's initiative will be rejected by the teams who support the government. Well, what do we say? It's a shame. We'd be willing to vote on points, if you like, if we'd at least come to confession because it would be positive: To confess the permanent covid of the EAE Laws. It seems to me that it would be an important step to all of us with one voice regarding society. And at least I want to encourage you all to take that step. We think it would be minimum of minimum. It's just for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections to the popular Euskal Group, representative of Ciudadans, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u91	Good afternoon, everyone. I want to welcome them here to the people who are following this debate. It is true that the covid permanent is a reality; we cannot deny it. And it is true that yesterday we had an opportunity at the Medical Committee, especially to know what are the needs or needs and problems of this collective. And in this furrow, we find it convenient to have the measures to be directed. It wasn't possible to make a deal especially with the side that helps the government, but we hope it will be possible another time. The reality of the persistent covid is a reality that we cannot deny that it is there. We had the opportunity to listen to the group of persistent covid patients at the Health Commission a few months ago and, in fact, it was very illustrative about the symptoms they suffer and the reality that they live day by day, after passing the acute phase of the disease. Undoubtedly, for these people not only does not end everything when they pass this acute phase, when they leave the hospital or home environment where they have passed the corresponding period of healing, but then they persist with a complex symptomatology, which also affects several or multiple organs and is systemic. Therefore, we can clearly say that the life of these people, in which the symptoms of the covid do not end when the acute phase ends, their day by day is clearly altered, not only that of these people, but that of their relatives. WHO has recognized the severity of the disease and recommends that health authorities implement different specific measures to meet the needs of these patients. A year has passed since the pandemic and we are still immersed in it. Unfortunately, we have to say that we are also in a very virulent fourth wave, especially in the number of contagions, although not so much in terms of the mortality of certain groups as the elderly. Today we talk about 940 cases, yesterday of 1,003 cases, with an accumulated incidence of 450 cases. This year, as I said, it has led us to see the need of the sick who have passed this acute phase, but who continue to have concrete symptoms in relation to the covid. My group and I believe that this is an important issue, and that is why we have tabled the corresponding amendment: to focus, without any doubt, on investigating the causes of the persistence of these symptoms; to make a correct diagnosis to identify that these symptoms persist; and, above all, to provide from the public health systems, in this case from Osakidetza, the treatment and adequate follow-up for these patients, especially in order to improve the quality of life and that these symptoms have the least possible incidence on a daily basis of these people, of these patients, some of whom you are accompanying us here today. We agreed with some of the approaches that EH Bildu made to us in his initial proposal, but we understood that some should be dealt with more exhaustively and that others correspond to other areas of competition. Therefore, we emphasize the importance of focusing on ensuring early diagnosis, adequate care and optimal follow-up of these patients with covid pathology. On the other hand, we do see a need – and at this point we do agree with the proposer – to incorporate in the different training programmes and plans all the updates and information about this disease and to focus – as I said at the beginning of my intervention – on the investigation of the causes of persistent covid disease. With regard to the amendment by the groups supporting the Government, I have to say that we also have points of coincidence, but there has been no possibility of approximation in this dynamic in which we are. It seems that we cannot agree on matters relating to the health of Basques. There seem to be many coincident points, and I, again, regret it. We are obviously not going to vote against the original initiative or the proposed compromise amendment. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u92	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Well, first of all, I also take the opportunity to greet the representatives of the different associations who are accompanying us here in Parliament today. A year later, more than a year after the first case of covid was diagnosed, many unknowns about this disease still remain, and one of them is referred to the so-called persistent covid or long covid, which is a reality and from which we still have to learn a lot. As always, this poses a major problem in dealing with these kinds of issues in a political space such as the Basque Parliament. Because these are issues that still cause many doubts also in specialists and, therefore, are issues on which we have no certainty, nor can we bring any certainty from the policy point of view. Therefore, we, from the Basque Socialist Group, are not going to be categorical in this debate and are going to run away from any kind of maximalist stance. Basically, because in this area there are still many doubts in the scientific field, which is the one that must prevail over these kinds of issues. But that there are many unknowns to be solved about the persistent covid, as there are about the VOCID itself, is not reluctant to try to offer an answer to those who, today, are suffering some of the multiple symptoms associated with the persistent covid. And this is what we try to do in the amendment that we have tabled and that we urge the Basque Government: to continue and increase the follow-up support of patients with sequelae and persistence of symptoms of COVID-19; to encourage these patients to follow up on consultations of the different related specialties, to carry out complementary tests necessary for the correct diagnosis, follow-up and emotional support that they may need; and to promote from primary care research projects on the persistence of symptoms. We can address all these measures within the scope of our competence, which aim to provide concrete solutions to those who suffer the consequences of the symptoms of COVID-19. I told them we weren't going to be maximalists, because there's a lot left to define and investigate. We know that there are people who suffer the prolongation of symptoms over time after apparently overcoming the infection, but also that there are people with physical sequelae after the disease. We know that this can affect people of any age, although many studies indicate that the result of the condition is greater in middle-aged women. We know that a large number of symptoms associated with persistent covid have been described: general, respiratory, digestive, neurological, cardiovascular... We also know that they can fluctuate or persist over time, worsen with physical effort and mental effort, and cause limitation of functional capacity. And we know that all this has a high impact on the quality of life and on the work and social environment of the people concerned. All these issues have already been reflected, as mentioned, in the official scientific information document on coronavirus disease, published in January by the Ministry of Health. And that's what we know. But we also know that from there they open up incognitos, because these symptoms fluctuate over time and, on many occasions, they also disappear. Approximately one in five people has symptoms after five weeks of infection, and approximately one in ten people maintain symptoms after 12 weeks of infection. We also know that they are opening up incognitos, because recent publications also point out that the vaccine has a favorable effect on a large percentage of people with persistent covid. In this regard, the Spanish Society of General Medicine and Long Covid-ACTS are conducting a survey to assess the effects of the vaccine on people affected by persistent covid. Like I said, there's a lot of doubt. I believe that, as we resolve them, it is only fair to send a clear message to all the people concerned and to assure them that, from our area of competence, we will be there: increasing support, encouraging follow-up by specialists in the field, carrying out the complementary tests they need, giving them emotional support and promoting research projects. That's in our hands, and that's why we bet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u94	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u95	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea. Legebiltzarkideok, hold on. Also to you, persistent covid patients or representatives of the association; welcome to this House. The truth is that there is no way we can make a debate in this matter that can go beyond knowledge and technical studies, the science of the knowledge of specialists in the field – each of which we have had to go to experts here – or the careful reading of a reality that is there. Much more can be added from our point of view, our knowledge or our political vision. In addition, this is a possible very recent pathology, of which there is not enough information to be able to show anything but speculation. It is true that we have heard in this Parliament a number of people affected by what has come to be called permanent or persistent covid, although I like the English name long covid more, closer to the reality of the moment, as it is now a long sequel of COVID and at nothing can be said of permanent, yet, since the first infected were just over a year ago. It is also true that those affected by this neopathology have moved us with tiredness and even a certain despair, because they do not feel that certain symptoms have ended since they passed the disease. This, according to them, always limits them in certain aspects of their routine life, and they cannot recover the normality of their pre-pathology life. By focusing the shot, and to give some brushstrokes, and so, in passing, the auditorium knows and takes advantage of your stay in this plenary to learn something, I will explain to you that the disease caused by SARS-CoV-2 has a very wide clinical spectrum. Approximately 80% of infected people are known to experience mild illness, 14% have severe dyspnoea, hypoxia and bilateral pneumonia, and 5% have had critical disease. The most frequent clinical presentation of COVID is a mild respiratory infection and, less frequently, pneumonia with fever, cough and dyspnoea. Twenty-30% of those hospitalized with pneumonia required intensive care for respiratory support. In these cases, extensive lung inflammation may cause acute respiratory dystres syndrome, with acute lymphopenia, liver test abnormalities and coagulation, acute reactant protein augmentation and interferon suppression, which may trigger an aberrant inflammatory response that includes overproduction of cytokines. Those who have some fear of the disease who will not continue to listen. So far the contrasted reality of what is so far known about the interaction between human physiology, well known, and the SARS-CoV-2 virus, still frankly unknown. From here, the first contributions of science, not yet sufficiently contrasted. This hyperinflammatory response caused by an overreaction to the virus, perhaps genetically influenced, is one that can contribute to worsening the resolution of pneumonia and also seems to favor the development of manifestations that may have a longer pathological and symptomatic duration. The health problem to which we are referring presents a clinical scenario little explored so far, not for lack of will, but for lack of time to know this possible disease and for lack of sufficient data to be able to conclude in a scientific way, although it is true that in a number of covid patients there is a persistence in time of various symptomatic manifestations and functional alterations weeks or months after the resolution of the viral infection. But all this is not enough. A post-SARS-CoV syndrome had already been described in the literature before this pandemic. SARS-CoV, in generic terms, not SARS-CoV-2. It is characterized by persistent fatigue, diffuse myalgia, depression and sleep disorders. On the other hand, the number of people who say they don't end up being cured is very different: tiredness, coughing, discomfort, headache, muscle pain, anxiety... and so up to 200 different symptoms. A survey by the Spanish Society of General Medicine and Family reports that the average of symptoms per person is 36. It's an increasingly known virus, but it still has unknown behaviors. It causes a disease with an enormous number of variants in its attack on the human being, which are not yet sufficiently described and studied. There are permanent updates of the protocols of action in health systems, with the possibility of going through them by solving them with vaccines still under scientific debate. It causes a huge amount of symptoms long after the disease has passed, even in people who are not proven to have passed it. This, logically, causes a great disconcert. But everything has been bewildering since the first virus appeared in China. Only science, technique, careful observation, calm analysis and sufficient time to systematize with sufficient rigor will allow us to reveal the different realities of the behaviors of the virus and its different reactions to different human DNA and to find out possible remedies to temper their virulent attacks and methods to diagnose what has come to be called long covid, as well as the systematic to differentiate symptoms from a long recovery of the initial pathology from those that suppose a new pathology differentiated from the initial infection. Therefore, in addition to moving, sincerely, our empathy to those who suffer all these symptoms, because they suffer, that is undeniable, we understand that continuing to increase the support already underway for the follow-up to all and all patients who have sequelae and persistence in symptoms of COVID-19 is the surest way to address the possible solution to those suffering from this symptomatology. It is to continue to accumulate data to improve knowledge of what is happening in postinfection. At the same time, we understand, and we propose in our amendment, that specific follow-up should be promoted for these patients with professionals from different fields, the conduct of complementary tests for their correct diagnosis and emotional follow-up and support, while promoting research projects on the persistence of symptoms of covid patients. Surely it is not the definitive solution. No, I'm sure. Nor does anyone know her yet. But it is probably the best way, with the knowledge and resources that we now have, to address the new consequences of an almost unknown pathology caused by a virus that is still very little known. At the same time, I am aware that the Department of Health is in contact with the association that represents those affected and that it has recently informed them that it has requested the teams of researchers from Osakidetza, from all over the health system, to present projects specifically linked to the persistent covid, both to attend the calls of the R & D health plan and to call for projects linked to the COVID-19 funded with funds raised by EITB Maratoia 2020. They have also collected a proposal from the association itself for Biobanco Vasco to collaborate in the collection of samples necessary for the establishment of new lines of research. We know that an important step would be to recognize the long covid as a pathology, but the data obtained and the time elapsed do not seem to be wide enough to take such a step. By the way, this initial step formally falls to WHO. In fact, the WHO, in the unique update of the International Classification of Diseases, includes the persistent covid within an appeal to investigate its knowledge and research, recognizing it as something new to take into account, but without including it in the definitive classification. Meanwhile, it is a question of continuing to investigate, of increasing databases, of deepening the care of patients with various persistent symptoms after passing the disease. We know that the Department of Health and Osakidetza are devoting time and effort to matter. We know. And we know for a fact that they will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u96	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Teams that haven't run any corrections. Mist must not speak. Together the representative of the Podemos-IU team, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u97	Good afternoon. Among patients with sequelae attributable to coronavirus, it seems that two large groups are distinguished: those who suffer organic damage, mostly pulmonary, neurological, cardiovascular, even stroke; and those who suffer symptoms such as headaches, tiredness, palpitations, lack of concentration, etc. They're the ones affected by the so-called persistent covid. I will not repeat myself in the arguments explained by different groups when describing the pathology. But it is a disease to which the World Health Organization has assigned a code in the International Classification of Diseases, but of which, in fact, much remains to be known. The symptomatology it includes is very varied and changing, as has already been said, and it has not yet passed a long enough period to know if it will disappear over time. The recent eruption of the coronavirus means that there are not enough data in the scientific literature on, for example, the percentage of patients suffering from this type of sequelae. But it is obvious that it exists, that it is there and that it needs to be addressed from the point of view of public health. We believe that Euskal Herria Bildu's initiative seeks this and responds, in our opinion, to the need and the approaches expressed by those concerned, organized in associations, to whom I too take the opportunity to greet from here, on behalf of our coalition, and to whom we were able to listen months ago in the Committee on Health in this Parliament. The proposed initiative could be addressed in a nuanced manner. But, of course, our group shares both the explanation addressed by Mrs Ubera in her justification and the operative part of the non-law proposal. For this reason, we have not made any kind of amendment, because we will support the initiative with our affirmative vote. We are going to ask Mrs Ubera to vote on points, in case she can in any way facilitate a greater understanding between the groups which have made amendments and which, apparently, have not reached any kind of agreement. He referred to the Spanish Society of General Medicine and Family. We have also heard some data from the ministry, from the ministry's report. As early as November last year, the Spanish Society of General Medicine and Family presented a survey – I want to put it here today – to 2,000 people who suffered symptoms compatible with the persistent covid. The most common symptoms have already been mentioned, they are known: tiredness and asthenia, headaches, muscle, shortness of breath, lack of concentration. Also relevant in this survey is that, on a scale where zero is no disability and ten is the maximum disability, the average score they claimed to suffer is 4.82. Therefore, a high disability, which is affecting people's ordinary lives, in many cases, with difficulties for a fundamental issue, the work that many people need to go on with. It is true that many answers remain to be learned when dealing with this issue. But it is obvious that Osakidetza has to make the greatest effort. And the Department of Health must promote follow-up, treatment, research, training in the persistent covid, beyond even the debate on the recognition of it as a disease, it is true, although we, of course, recognize its importance and believe that it is necessary to recognize it as a disease, since there are sufficient elements and sufficient comparisons. Mrs Ubera has put on the table some of these comparisons with some countries and some autonomous communities, so that we too could do so. We will therefore support the initiative with our affirmative vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u98	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Passing by the turn of the answers, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u99	Mr. Hernández, no problem. We'll vote for it in points.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u100	If anyone wants it, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u101	Yeah, they asked for it and there's no problem with us. The empathy is all right, thanks to the collective, but the patient from permanent covid needs steps, precise measures, attention, diagnostics, closely-that's what they need. Good words, nice words, end up there, but they're worth very little. Eta asko hitz egin gives... emotional support, because it's fine. Bath beasts gauza batzuk gehiago egitated ond legoke. Look, the knowledge we have, the knowledge that is in EAE, and those in China, are exactly the same in London, Catalonia, Andalucia, and Navarro. And they're taking measures, they're moving and they're not here. Why? Not even confession? Isn't that right? It's a very minimal thing. Of course there's an evolution, an investigation. But this happens in the pandema, and it happens with all the diseases. It's dynamite, there's a contineum, there's research, things change. That's why a government, a health department doesn't have to stay with the hands folded. He's got to take the measurements. And in the pandemae, a little better or worse, he's been taking measures. Even here. That argument, that's no excuse for us. On the one hand, Popular Party tells us that accuracy is lacking. I'd ask Mrs Garrido for some honesty. They know why they don't make a deal with us. So don't tell me there's no accuracy. If you like, I read what we have and I read the full correction you have made. And you'll tell me what's precise and what's wrong with it. On the other hand, Social Party tells us we're socialists. I recommend him to read and compare. I understand that, Mr. Rico, that we are maxims. It seems to me that our proposition is very rational, very moderate, and very logical. On the other hand, what concerns us above all is the passiveity of the government, or the paranoia, I know what it is or is lacking. I don't know what's really behind me, but I have a feeling we're always following, dragging, standing behind us. A few decades ago, we'd be pioneers in the state, I don't know where, but that was over. That's the end of it, and we're always crawling behind it, and I don't know if it's because it's fear of making decisions, because it's paralysizing the government, because it doesn't mean that it's because it's because it's a funded budget. I don't know, but I have a feeling that, in the end, a citizen who has a permanent covid, as it happens to a person, he's a very tired, paralyzed, helpless government. And it is a pity not to have this minimum in our days, in so many countries already, even in our own country, when there is a confession, not even that. That sounds to us like the miniminismo. We'll continue to work so that the patients in permanent covid will be able to confess, so that they'll be bisgilized, that they'll be careful, so that the whole course of the diagnostics can be defined, so that the units will be built. You think this pandemia is only for a season, but it has come to stop, and this disease will remain there somehow, just as other diseases have left, even though the evolutions will be different. He'll have to answer that, too, so he'll have to answer. We need a code, we need to combine the criteria, we have to manage the trucks, and there's a job there, which must be coordinated with Social Security. So there's a lot of work to do and we just want to ask you to get out of that palisisi who's going to be brave, because there's a lot of people willing to cooperate. A number of associations are already working among them, in the state class, and among the community here. There are several hands, and every hand that is in it may be employed to give an adequate answer to the wants and questions of the people.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. 'Essalka Populara-Ciudadnos mustn't speak.' Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u103	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I did not say that you were maximalists; I said that I was not going to intervene from a maximalist point of view. I think we have not done any of the groups, and I make it clear to you that you have no doubt. I have said that we cannot be maximalist in politics, when we are not maximalist in science, because there are still many unknowns to be clarified. I think that it is a bit of a force to make it all stick to not making an official statement, when this really would be a symbolic statement, because neither this government nor any other government determines whether a specific symptomatology is a disease or not. That depends on the field of science. It is not parliaments that determine what is a disease or not, and I believe that is simple logic. At the moment, what is there is an official statement through that official document of January, on scientific information, published by the Ministry of Health, which declares it a syndrome. As you know, a syndrome is a set of symptoms that define or characterize a disease. Therefore, what we say in this Parliament about the scientific determination of a disease, of a symptomatology, does not really contribute anything, because it is outside this area. I believe that progress is being made and here we have the different news that we have been able to see in recent times in different working groups, with special emphasis on research, the development of clinical guides, care and follow-up, which also aim to incorporate different protocols of care and follow-up to people who have this symptomatology. A first step was that official scientific information document of January, to which I have referred, which directly collected the information transferred from the Spanish Society of General Physicians of the Family and from the Long Covid Association itself. I don't think there's any greater recognition. I've always said we have to put measurements on the table. I say this again: in our amendment, what we are doing is taking action, that is, recognizing a fact and recognizing that, in view of that fact, we have things to do in our area of competence. I will repeat this so that there is no doubt, because I do not want it to be understood that this Government, as has been said, is in paralysis, no. We say: that follow-up support should be increased in patients presenting these sequelae, that follow-up should be encouraged in consultations with the different specialists involved in these sequelae, that complementary tests should be carried out, that the follow-up and emotional support that they may need and that research projects should be promoted, precisely from primary care. We are providing concrete measures, and as we are getting to know more, both from the persistent covid and from COVID in general, all appropriate measures will be taken, always in coordination with the field of science. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u104	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u105	Thank you. I will be very quick, because the debate is not for much. Mrs Ubera, you have spoken of the ministry's report, and the ministry's own report, if you have read it, does not recognize the disease, says you can't do it yet. Another thing is that we seem to solve it by recognizing in no way the disease. Mr. Rico has said: who are we to recognize a disease, what power do we have? Recognition of a disease is much more complex, and has not been recognized by WHO. You mentioned the Parliament of Navarre. Do you know what the Parliament of Navarre has done? To say that it exists, and the Department of Health has created a register. That's all they've done. And they're working well, coordinatedly, a record, okay. And here they'll probably already have a record or they'll be preparing a record. But it is not done here, that is done by the Department of Health, which at the moment has an already more or less routine relationship with the association of affected people. They'll work. Everything else, in all the technical and scientific documentation that I have been able to read and according to what I have been able to interpret with my lack of knowledge, is that there is still a need for a tour. That the fact that there is a group of people who accumulate a more or less common symptomatology, but enormously broad and dispersed, does not mean that they have a pathology. In fact, according to the latest technical information, quite a few of those affected, as soon as they have been vaccinated, have been killed. I don't know if they're really finished or not. I don't have scientific evidence there, I just have journalistic evidence, which is very far from the scientist, although here we sometimes turn the journalistic evidence as scientific evidence. If you want to vote for points, it suits us: we are going to vote for all who do not. But not because we agree on some and others not, simply, because we want ours to be approved, and by approving some of those of you we will lose the possibility of approving ours, which we believe is the effective, the efficient. That is simply the question. Finally, Mrs Garrido, you quoted in passing, "I do not know what happens that no agreement can be reached". If you want, you can come to an agreement. Yesterday we unanimously adopted a non-law proposal on health in this Parliament unanimously. It was approved yesterday. Because – now I am going to take advantage of a second – by appealing to the words that Mr Gordillo said this morning outside the context of the debate: why don't you apply the story? Why don't you deal with Bildu? Because they make covert deals and they haven't signed any deals yet. Today's one could have signed it perfectly. Mrs. Ubera herself would have been delighted. Look at what it's like to make other groups empty, isn't it? Don't accuse the others, look at you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u106	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. In conclusion, Podemos must not speak together. How do you want to vote for the vote? [[Berber]] After discussion, we'll vote the original text of the other proposal as the EH Collector. We'll vote for the first point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 41; the abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u107	So it's not accepted. Next, second, third, fourth, fifth points will be voted. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 42; the votes that are given, 74; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 41; Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u108	So it's not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the entire USPAL Group-Ciudadans correction. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 6; the contrary, 40; the abstations, 28; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u109	So it's not accepted. And in the end, we will vote for the general correction of the Basque Socialists and of the Euccanists. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 42; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 40; the contrary, 0; Abstations, 34; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u110	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. Number of points in theme list: "Motion, Muriel Larre Lasoa, the popular group of Basques, introduced by the parliamentary members of Ciudadanose, in contrast to the major irregularities detected in Zalla Las Friends in the wastebas, the development of economics, patience, and environmental activities, and the politics of which he has recently predicted. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn, Miss Larrea, to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u111	Thank you, good afternoon. In the inquiry I made a few weeks ago to Mrs Tapia, it seems that she did not want to understand and she wanted to make it look as if I did not know the problems of Zalla's landfill and that they were being resolved immediately. Well, I see myself and I see myself in the obligation to present this motion to try to preserve the quality of life of the neighbors of the Las Lagunas environment and other places. We must avoid situations that we have already experienced before, and stop putting our hands to our heads because we have not acted in time. And everyone here knows what I mean. We all agree that the protocols to which we are bound by the laws that we adopt here and the rules that develop them have not been sufficient. Control of these types of landfills needs to be improved. Therefore, I am not worth the words of "the government has no obligation", "it is the fault of the company", "they have to communicate with us". That is very good to cover the backs of those who have to exercise control over compliance, but this does not solve the problems that are created if companies fail to comply with their obligations, report late or stop informing the Basque Government. So, gentlemen, something has to change. Today we come again to show our concern about what has been happening in Zalla, in the landfill of Las Lagunas, and why this way of acting in Zalla could represent with regard to the waste management policy of the Basque Government. I have already made this known in my question: we see the 2030 Waste Prevention and Management Plan very positive, especially because of the objective of reducing the waste that reaches landfill by 85%, because of the lines of action, in particular, because of the possibility of activating a canon of dumping or incineration of waste, which would aim to prevent it from being cheaper to dump a waste than to recycle it. It is not something new, the state legislation already provided for several chandeliers. The novelty is that, at last, we look at its application here, when they already do, for example, all our neighbouring autonomous communities. Those are the plans, the government announcements. Another thing is the day-to-day, the reality, which contrasts with your actions in this regard. I said it in his day and I repeat it again: we are facing a dump larger than Zaldibar's. We are talking about breaches and serious deviations, low compliance with integrated environmental authorization for months and more months. A non-compliance that persisted when the woman counseled made the announcement of the new Waste Prevention and Management Plan, and, more importantly, the situation did not result in the closure or reduction of the landfill activity until these deficiencies were resolved. If it happened, it was invaluable. In fact, the data indicate otherwise. A strong increase in waste streams to Las Lagunas, extraordinary, to the limit, between 2020 and 2021, which can be seen in economic terms. That is why, regardless of what the new plan is, which we will be discussing, the Basque Government has an obligation to correct and sanction situations such as that detected in this landfill, and to do so with a speed that, in this case, did not exist. Risks of any kind that represent a low degree of compliance with the integrated environmental authorization cannot remain in time and over the territory for months and months. Those who engage in such practices, businesses or natural persons, must face up to their responsibilities. It doesn't seem logical to wait for something serious to happen to demand it. We are talking about a matter in which prevention is very important. And I repeat the questions we asked in the last inquiry, which were not answered. What other Basque landfills have a low degree of compliance with the integrated environmental authorization? What sanctions have been imposed or are planned to be imposed? Or will they continue to act as hitherto, with accumulated deficiencies detected for how many months or years, which take many months to be corrected, without greater consequences for those involved in them? We have the impression that the department's performance has been too lax and that it is necessary to increase inspections to detect breaches before, not only when they are piled up. To shorten the deadlines for rectifying undesirable situations that cannot be delayed in the way we have described, as well as in other landfills that we already know. Look, what can't happen is that in a few moments when such deviations occur, there is no limitation or closure of activity, all without waiting for the approval of the new plan. For those who dwell near the great landfills, such as Zalla's, have lived for a year with fears they had not before. The performance of the Department of the Environment depends on whether these fears can be rationally conjured up. To that end, we need inspection reports that reflect a different reality, as well as different ways of acting on the part of the Administration. We need a reality with high compliance with integrated environmental authorization. That is why we wanted to raise this debate. We believe it is useful, because that change in the way we act can only benefit everyone. It will be good to do so as soon as possible and it is essential for the credibility of any waste plan that the Government wants to push forward. That is why we have tabled our motion. First, we wanted clarity and certainty about the action in Las Lagunas, information in Parliament and assurances that the deviations had been corrected. That is why we proposed at the first point that the Basque Government should forward to the House, before 1 May this year, a copy of the documentation proving the stability of the deterioration of Las Lagunas, as well as a detailed report of all the deviations detected in the inspection carried out in June 2020 with regard to the integrated environmental authorisation. Secondly, we cannot wait to reform laws or other rules to strengthen an inadequately equipped inspection of the number of installations and the workload they are responsible for. That is why we proposed a deadline for the Basque Government, moving ahead with the plans of the Environmental Inspection and Control Plan 2019-2026, to increase the frequency of inspections at landfills. Finally, we believe that a subject of this magnitude that has generated so much social alarm deserves parliamentary follow-up and greater transparency on the part of the Government. That is why we also ask, in the third point, that the Basque Government appear at each session – it can be at each session or every year, as we will see later – before the relevant committee of the House, in order to report on the inspections carried out at the various landfills of non-urban waste in the CAV. Look, I'm going to tell you that we have a constructive will to look to the future and help improve things. We want to avoid future disasters, having the means to anticipate the events that have been accomplished or the situations that are at their limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u113	The lady's head. Good afternoon, everyone. I'll try to be brief because it's the last point and we've already been here one morning I think a little intense. Even at the risk of eventually becoming known as the Contexts, I would also like in this case, as I have done in point number two, to put this situation in context. I would like to begin by making a general reference to the subject before us today. Many times it is necessary to lift your head, look for a more general perspective that allows us to see the forest and stop staring so much at the detail of the trees. Both exercises are necessary, but I think it is also essential, sometimes, to lift your head and get more vision. Because, many times, listening here to the different interventions on waste, gives the feeling that waste is a kind of divine effluent that no one knows where it comes from or where it goes. And it's just that it's not worth taking the part in the whole thing. It is not worth bringing here today a debate on the landfill in Las Lagunas de Zalla, but to take a look at the real structural causes underlying the issue of waste, not only in Euskadi, but at national level. In this debate, too, we need to be consistent and have a high eye. We all like to fill our mouths with the deep industrial roots of our people. We are all proud of our industrial fabric, its contribution to economic growth and employment stability. It is rare that we do not bring to this House any initiative that results in the need to support our industry and, logically, the working population that depends on it. Many have even succumbed to the temptation to take a picture before such a company or with such a committee. But none of us like to assume that it is that industry that generates waste. An industrial model that cannot pretend to keep hiding the trash under the carpet for the sake of production and its yields. Deep reflection is needed on the model of circular economy that we need to build in Euskadi. Being a very industrial country implies a high consumption of raw materials which translates into a high production of waste. Specifically, of the 6.3 million tonnes of waste generated each year, 60% are of industrial origin, 21% are construction and demolition waste and the remaining 19% are urban waste. We need to rethink the waste management model thoroughly and we cannot move forward on this model if companies do not clearly and transparently integrate waste management as it is: a cost of production. In this reflection, the Basque Government is immersed in this task of transforming the model. Because it is up to the institutions to use both the legislative and the fiscal tools so that the discharge ceases to be considered as a first option. We need to make it the last way out, once we have exhausted the possibilities of reintegrating them into the productive system through their recycling or recovery. The Basque Government is neither in nor in its arms. The previous legislature approved the Euskadi Circular Economy Strategy 2030, which aims to drive the transition to a more resource-efficient economy, oriented towards a new model of production and consumption. Also in the past legislature, the draft of the Plan for the Prevention of Waste Management of the Basque Country 2030 was finalized, which has given way to its processing earlier this year. This plan redoubles the demands of current strategies, marking a new and more ambitious impetus in the search for solutions to the management of industrial waste. That is, the path we will have to go through in the coming years will lead us to a circular economy conceived from product design to its elimination, with the optimization of its entire life cycle for minimizing the generation of resources. This is the conceptual framework in which we must move when we want to talk about waste management. This is the general view that we need to have clear before we address the issue of the landfill in Las Lagunas de Zalla or any other landfill that we want to talk about in this House. And in the last year, year and a half, the truth is that we have the subject quite exhausted. I do not want to repeat here today what the Counsellor, Mrs Tapia, has already said in the plenary on 5 March. But I would like to bring some of the issues that I have considered can or have been sufficiently settled. Indeed, on a visit to the inspection in June 2020, 11 minor deviations and six moderate deviations were detected. That is the classification given to him by the inspectors during the visit. It is a classification that did not put the counselor or the vice-advisor. Because, many times, we do not want to realize that in our legitimate right to political play, with voluntary and premeditated superlative statements, all we do is question the work of the technicians and techniques of the Basque Government. I insist that 64% of the deviations were of little relevance and 36% were moderate, the vast majority of which were administrative in nature. By 15 September, 11 of the deviations detected, i.e. two out of three, had been remedied. The Administration, fulfilling its inspection and surveillance function, continued to require the company to correct the remaining deviations until 9 December, at which time the remaining six deviations were confirmed. As for the fires, to which he also referred during the inquiry, they were also answered with all kinds of details on that occasion. Once again, and by also shortening this last point of the meeting, I refer directly to the logbook, although I would like to touch on a couple of points in this regard. Following the different fires during the years 2019 and 2020, the Administration acts by asking the company for a series of studies and measurements, in order to determine the dimensions of the problem. On 14 October, the Basque Government approved the action plan submitted by the company. As a result, new gas evacuation chimneys have been started, as well as the excavation of the affected area and the repair of geomembranes. And in this they continue to date today. Let us not therefore fall into the temptation to simplify the debate, to outline a gross cartoon that is extremely interested, that the only thing he pursues is to dodge the background and entertain ourselves in the superficial. However, I am glad that we have been able to reach a compromise between the People's-Citizens Party, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi-Euskadiko Ezkerra. The transactional tries, in some way, to value that context. He therefore urged the Basque Government to strengthen its inspection efforts, reaffirmed its commitment to transparency and clarity by opening up information to citizens, supported the policies and objectives of the Waste Management Prevention Plan, encouraged recycling and recovery, and encouraged the canon of dumping and incineration. These are the points which, in some way, are reflected in this transactional, which, in some way, is to rebut the debate towards the general, towards the more general needs in this issue of waste management, and to leave aside the specific and concrete aspects of the landfill in Las Lagunas de Zalla. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u114	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arriganaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u115	Thank you, Mr. President, and good evening to all. As has been said, Mrs. Larre of the Populative Party joined the Chief of Tapia on March 5th. I have been reading the passage text, and have found a common element, frequently used by the opposition, quoted in it: worried, "we're worried." In every attempt on this legislature we have occasion to listen to it at a considerable distance: worried. So I came to a conclusion: It is one of the instruments of opposition. And we can't say that there's no reason why there's anything to worry about in these times of our lives, but there's enough reason to worry about. So it's normal to be worried. Normal and legitimate. Maybe what's not so legitimate is: Sometimes, in the hope of increasing the uneasiness of some one who does not really feel so much, he sometimes acts with the hope of increasing his uneasiness in the community. More anxiety, in order to arouse confidence in the institutions. Of course, of the political enemy's political ambition. And let's pick it up again to stop worrying about it. The occasion is often troubled, and we have heard it to-day. I'm worried that the disaster on the Horsebar isn't going to happen again. All, all of us, not merely oppositions, we all have the conviction that this cannot happen again. And the fun is working with special care, with much more anxiety and conviction I've been talking about. He is talking of many visions about this subject, and that it is a vision, and that it is not, I should say: In the junkyard of Zalla's waste magazines, the report made by the Dreaming Environmental Inspections, made out the diversions. Why? Because the inspection had made inspection and he had noticed the diversions. And all the deviations he had noticed got settled because he'd given the woman a plea for repairing the environmental departments. And all this is not a branch of mouth but a confession to evidence. In the interference made to the chief physician, he answered all the questions he had asked, Mrs. Larrea. The chief physician said, "It's the purpose of the department dump to confirm the performance of his environmental license." "It is the responsibility of the sheriff to correct the irregularities he found," he said. The chief physician, as has been said, declared that 11 slight deviations and six other moderated characters were observed, and that most of them were the administrative system. The chief physician explained that all the deviations he had seen had been repaired for the 9th of December, in response to the treatment made by the Environment Department. And finally, the chief physician said that despite the diversions, the file is in the hands of the scrivener, and that this scrivener has two years of punishment, if he deserves it. That gehiago gauza was a zituan. The councilwoman stated that the landfill in Zalla is being inspected and monitored very thoroughly, that it is a landfill that has its environmental authorization and that, according to that authorization, it has not yet been filled; therefore, beyond speculations, elucubrations and concerns in quotes, it is normal for it to continue to be filled. All that and more things answered the counselor, Mrs Larrea. But in his motion, and he has repeated it today, he considers that the answers he received all his questions were insufficient. And I want to believe that the opinion on insufficiency can be as sincere as the level of concern that some express. In any case, we have reached a compromise amendment, I think it is a good compromise amendment. It is a compromise amendment with many points and much content. I would therefore invite all the groups present in the House, despite the time of the afternoon in which we live, to vote in favour, if not overall, at least for points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Together the representative of the Podemos-IU team, Mr MartínezIón, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u117	Thank you. Good afternoon. The landfill of Zaldibar, the landfill of Zalla, the incinerators of Zubieta and Zabalgarbi are names of waste management facilities that have recently occupied many media headlines and many debates in recent times, also in this House, too many, generally not very positive. Replying to Mr Alonso: for our part, no caricatures. We have sought to broaden the focus of a particular initiative that spoke of Zalla. Obviously, a non-legislative proposal will not solve the waste policy, but it can help broaden the focus on waste management. Well, according to the 2030 Waste Prevention and Management Plan, which we hope will also pass through this House, waste generation in Euskadi reached 6.1 million tonnes in 2018. Management indicates that 37% of this waste ended up in landfills, and 6% is incinerated. That is, 43 % of waste does not recycle or recover. In the case of non-hazardous waste, the percentage increases even more. In addition, the landfill of Zalla hosts many of these wastes after the closure of the landfill of Zaldibar, but also after the closure of those of Mutiloa and Larrabetzu. The landfill in Zalla has begun to receive much more waste than before, and it is estimated that it could be filled in just two years. I also agree with some reflection that has been made on the fact that a lot of waste is consumed and that a lot of waste is generated in Euskadi, both urban and industrial. And it is not that this year we have a problem with waste management in Euskadi, but that we have taken time in this process, because of the management that successive governments have done over the last decades. We have said over and over again, here and at the general meetings, that the lack of planning by the various governments has led to a proliferation of landfills and incinerators in Euskadi, the real lowcosts – I was going to say the lowcost incinerators, these not so much – to get rid of the waste in which almost no company invests to give them a second life. Pouring and burning in Euskadi is usually quite cheap. After a time of misfortune due to at least controversial management of waste policy, society, not only the opposition groups, society as a whole is demanding more control, greater requirements for these companies that have seen in industrial waste a gold mine where to obtain great profits in very little time. It is another of the problems that we have also been criticizing for a long time: the policy of doing absolutely everything business. What we have read and what we have heard from the Government is that everything has been perfectly fulfilled at the landfill in Zalla, that some remedial requirements have been sent and that they have already been remedied. And since we've heard of the waste plan, we're talking about it to give an answer to everything. We and we wanted to go further in our amendment. We have also talked about valuing. Taking advantage of this debate, and in the expansion of the focus, there are two projects that are right now on top of the table, Valorinop and the prevention and management of Araba's urban waste. It would be a commitment from this Parliament and the Government that these projects will be implemented, regardless of the Next Generation. At the same time, there is a debate in Bilbao about the request for a new landfill of non-hazardous waste, the Artxanda landfill, in an area, by the way, that the city said it wanted to recover for the citizenry. Is the existing European legislation, which insists that we prioritise recycling, reuse and recovery of waste, going to authorize this new landfill? Is this the circular economy? That is what we want to know also today. The 2030 Waste Plan has as its intermediate objective not more than 30% of the waste generated in 2025. Is this planning consistent with the possible authorisation in Bilbao? In our view, and there they will count on our support and momentum, what must be promoted are waste recycling and recovery projects and not bury them under the carpet or burn them, of course. Therefore, in our amendment we urge the Government not to authorize the construction of more landfills in Euskadi and to make long-term planning. We can discuss this plan and set in motion these facilities that we are talking about, which are so necessary for recycling, reuse and recovery of waste. As for the canon, we have a coincidence. If we are allowed to vote on points, we will vote in favour of that and other points. We've been asking for a canon of these characteristics for years. Looks like it might be this year, at least next year. Well, the sooner it is, the better it will be, because we have to be more ambitious in meeting the goals and we think it is a very valid tool to discourage companies that do not want to do things as required by the moment and the planet. Mr Alonso has opened a debate which is very interesting and we have been putting it on the table for a long time. This does not conflict with the competitiveness of companies. In the long term, the only possible way for companies in Euskadi and anywhere in the world to be competitive in the plans of the circular economy is, as Mr Alonso said, that the process of the full cycle of the project is included in the costs of production and in what they generate outside the company itself. Obviously, they have to go in the direction of a fair transition for businesses and workers, but obviously also for the country's objectives and the objectives of combating climate change. In fact, in the 66 proposals we made from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita in the monographic debate of the Next Generation funds, we made several proposals in this regard, both for industry and for the waste recovery sites that I was talking about at first. This initiative deals with the landfill of Zalla, a landfill where, as has already been reported, there were certain incidents, unjustified, unwarranted fires, risks of land instability and other types of non-compliance. Ms Tapia told us that a request was sent to the company on July 31, 2020 to remedy those 16 breaches, those 16 deviations. And 11 were healed by September 15th and the last five by December 9th. It took five months to correct these deviations. However, I must also say that, in the request for information made by our parliamentary group on this same subject on 25 February 2021, we were told that it was resolved by 30 days on the 16th. So, here's something that fails. 30 days or five months, two different responses from the same department of the same government. That is why, in our amendment, we are not only talking about increasing inspection as it is now, but we have gone further: we have proposed to take advantage of the new technologies that we have at our disposal to make continuous control over capacity, management and movements and the type of waste and what companies are using these landfills. That is why we have proposed this improvement also in the inspection section. Because, moreover, we think that we must go beyond the policy of requirements without sanctions. This is also what we are told by workers from different public administrations who are tired of reporting, who are tired of carrying out inspection reports that end up only in notices. We have not reached any agreement with the proposing group, but we have been talking and we agree with some of the parts of the compromise that has been signed. Our amendment had a constructive sense of being more ambitious, because Euskadi can afford it, because we have the technology for it and because, frankly, if we want to talk about the future, the only way we have is to start, first, by generating less waste and, second, management is done as the current time demands. The landfill in Zalla, the incinerators and the companies with the greatest polluting potential have to be controlled and monitored using, as I said, the most advanced technology we have at our disposal. So we think, and so we also put it in the monograph of the Next Generation. It is a very important niche of economic activity also for the future of Euskadi. Therefore, we need these inspection tools to have the information in real time and not wait to have to make a request for information or someone, at some point, upload it to a website, but it is available in real time. Investment is likely to be considerable, but in the long term it will be a very profitable investment. Therefore, as I said, we will vote for points, if they leave us. We obviously agree with receiving the information. How are we going to be against that? But that is why we are calling for more transparency and management with which we do not have to continually require information, but that information is available to citizens. As far as the plan is concerned, we cannot endorse that plan without it having passed through the House. We will therefore give our specific opinion and input to the debate on the Waste Management Plan. More control and sanctions, so that it is not profitable to throw waste simply. And we agree with the canon, the sooner the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u118	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Teams that haven't run any corrections. Is the missile going to take the word? He mustn't speak. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u119	Yes, good afternoon to all. Alonso jauna, taste the besteekiko izan duz un deslegitimazizio-jarrera hori. Mr. contexts, you've egged it on me. Sure, we've got our heads in the bucket. You put the context to things, put the temperance. But, of course, when you put the context, you forget to say half the things, you take what you want. I too will try to get a little into the context, perhaps from angles that you have not wanted to touch. And so do you, Mrs. Arridalaga, make a nice face of delgimation. You're saying if the others are concerned, they're just emailed, aren't they? That's how you get on or off us. But that coin of the printed mind has another side: It was precisely the calm that had been played. It can happen and it happens. So I think one neutralizes the other. We didn't make any corrections today, because it was really hard for us to identify the subject of today. That is, from an interpelation, from a particular case, which seems to me to have been made an interpelration, because we need or want information to that particular case. And we have some contrivances, like members of the legislature, to get information, to ask questions, and so on. I think we have a mechanism that we can get this information or complete these deficiencies. If it was a matter of concern or concern to consider it as a starting-point and to open a discussion about the pollings of industrial waste and trash, it seems to me that some potent instruments were cut open right now. I mean, we're building the Environment Administration Act, and the Resident Plan is still somewhere, but he's not here yet. In this sense, if, at least, we can enter into a number of accounts by rectification of the law. And it's the disposal plan, I think, that's the right frame. Here, we'd like to file another legal proposal to get this new Resident Plan into the committee as communications. We hope you have a chance to make proposals and resolutions. It seemed to us that today was not the right time for each of us to make different proposals, a little ratdom or a bit of a allegory. And we shall see whether, apart from the Plan of Residents and the Administration Act of Environments, it is necessary here to propose a sactorial plan of land around the trash, or, Incluus, to propose a new Law about the trash. I say, in particular, that the theme of junk is a strong subject of industrial waste, thick, complex, and it seems to us that we can have but little progress with another. I'd like to say at least two things. On the one hand, about the industrial garbage and its situation, to mention the context. I think that since the fall of the Horsebars, several accounts have changed in this country, because they were either stripped or exposed by the fall of the Horses: what, how much, how we were getting rid of. At the same time, it must be said that the general state of industrial waste is now chaotic and destroyed by all planning. And it's not because I say it. I believe that the principal indicators have been the decrees of submission that followed one another. The Arriusia accepted a decree of emergency in March 2020, on account of the situation which followed after the fall of the Horsebar. It was a matter of 12 months-a temporary decision, but he held out this order on March 3th, and these measurements remain. Why did it happen? Well, because these 12 months have not found a solution, or at least a sufficient solution. The steps have been announced, but the solutions have not yet come. Nik you had aurreko interpelazioan Tapia andreak berak argi utzi zituela gaur egun ditugun gabezietako asko, batzuk modu inplicitu batan izan baziren era. Hasteko, esan zuen: "The idea of all that is being put into the 2030 Waste Prevention and Management Plan is that we will all be able to end the current situation." In other words, the current situation is far from being a good or normalized situation. And he gave many examples of what had to be done: that we do not have to carry anything out, we recognize that we are taking out; we have to go down, we are generating a lot; we need legislative developments; we need to activate the dumping fee, because it is very cheap to take to landfill; we need to increase the resources for inspection and punishment, because we do not get to properly inspect and sanction; we need some facility "that allows us to ensure the proper management of waste". That's the other thing I wanted to talk about. "Agartibzar el banger en la gestion de residuos." I'd like to go a little further here than Mrs. Tapia went the other day, because I think there's a discussion about the political essence, that is: how it has been understood, and how it has been practised for the last years, to watch the environment, whose dependence has been between industry and environment. Because I believe that we have had many years of very condescending policy with industry, of great need and little sanction, when we urgently need a conservative policy on the environment and health. The question for me is not so much whether we are going to take some measures or others, whether we are going to make some plans or others, some laws to improve the situation of generation, recycling, storage, etc., that everything will have to be done, if not... The question is whether we are going to demand from here that the Government comply with its obligation to ensure compliance with environmental regulations in all its derivatives, including sanctioning ones. Because the environmental administration cannot, as it is, be an instrument under political impulse that what it seeks ultimately is to facilitate business competitiveness by outsourcing costs based on relaxing environmental rigour. And public officials entrusted with the tasks of inspection, surveillance and sanction cannot be at the mercy of political or business interests or of the incumbents, because that is precisely the essence of the civil servant: to ensure the common good and the general interest above all other interests. But in recent years an environment has been created that has been quite perverse, a feeling of impunity, which is what was and is behind Zalla, behind Zaldibar and behind most of the cases with repeated negative impact on the environment. And Zalla's what comes to be is one more example, as was Zaldibar or so many others that are existing in other contexts. So I think the example of Zalla shows us two lines, looking at us quickly. One is the question of fire or of fire: A fire in 2018. In 2019, three fires. In October 2019, the SGS said they needed some reports, a plan of action. This action was not accepted until October 2020, and now it's not finished. After 18 months, after the whole affair of the Horses has been in between, it is still unfinished. "Donde está el studio de stability?" , esendde está el studio de la afección sobre los capitis que están de los grandes problemes de los vertederos? Not only this, but there is also a question of 17 non-destruction, of inspection. In June the check came, the return in July, the return in October. There's a testimulator. Yeah, if there's a time, it's gonna be two years, but what's going to happen in this town to open a marker file? When did Verter open the filer? It was in June 2019 that he checked out. When it fell, in February 2020, the filer hadn't started, the next week he was running and hurrying. I think we should take a walk in Santz's business. Ez daukat denborarik, bath iruditzen zait gaur, Larrea andrea, shop eskasa egin duzula. Nire ustez, zuk ekarritako proposemenean bazegoen puntu intersgarri bat: "that human resources are strengthened in order to be able to cope with this". This is something that Deputy Councilwoman Elena Moreno made meridianly clear over and over the past legislature. If we do not have sufficient resources, if we do not have enough political momentum to sanction companies that are failing to comply with environmental laws, then let us go and go.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u120	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u121	Yeah, I'm sorry. And in the end they've removed that from the motion and approved a lot of things that are already coming in the very plan they're announcing to us. Well, then I'll go on a little longer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u122	Thank you, Mr. Otero. The answer's turn, Mrs. Larrea, from the seat, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u123	First, I will reply to Mr Otero, because I believe that in point two he puts clearly "as well as strengthening the inspection tasks established". It therefore clearly reflects the fact that it reinforces the way in which landfills are inspected. I would like to thank the signatory parties of this transaction for their constructive and negotiating will. I want to talk about the concern, as Mrs Arrizabalaga has done, but not about the concern as a bold weapon, but about the concern that makes us work and that makes us come to this parliamentary seat and bring about concerns that will improve the standards, laws and quality of life of citizens in Euskadi. Therefore, concern is not a bold weapon, but a feeling that makes us put the piles to work and improve, as I said in my first intervention, from a constructive spirit and will to look to the future and contribute to improving things and to avoiding future disasters. In context, as Mr Alonso said, I want to say that we must realise that we are a highly industrialized country, a highly industrialized autonomous community, and that within the need for landfills, it is important to control and recycle all these landfills. I therefore believe that the negotiation on this non-legislative proposal has been successful. We are signatories to the transaction and will vote for it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Together Podemos? He mustn't speak. Basque Socialist doesn't have to speak. Eubertarians? Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u125	Mr. Otero, I've seen you with great enthusiasm, though I've been going on in the afternoon hours. What a mess you've made us, and what a lot of trouble you've brought us! If it was a Paella, how is it? Tierra y mar, carne y pescado, and you'd have thrown everything away, even a cstarlux. You said you were planning to make another legal proposal. Then maybe it's not enough. Then maybe we should get a law about industrial waste. Well, en fine. I know he hasn't come yet, and he'll be coming to the legislature with el Proyecto de Plan de Prevención y Gestion de Residus. But the chief physician presented it, at the open time, with his content at this moment, because it is certain that he will have a transfer to talk about it, and there will be a great deal of operators about it. But I think that really ambitious ends are marked out, and honest ends. And the honest word is the word that I confess to politics. Reduction by 30% of the waste generated, increase in the selective collection of urban waste up to 85%, convert 85% of the non-hazardous waste into secondary waste, reduce to less than 15% those to be landfilled, activate priority investments that minimize dumping, ensure self-sufficiency of the landfill by 2030, carry out legislative developments that enable all these objectives, activate a dumping and incineration fee, increase inspection and sanction resources, create a public-private waste management facility, support definitive solutions for plastics, promote green public and private procurement, prevent and promote high-quality packaging reuse and recycling, the structural fibre collection and management plan, etc. We'll check them out. But I think he's really a canned document, which marks ambitious aspirations. It'll give us enough work to do all the institutions, all the rest of us, to do that for real. And we should all join in the conspiracy and the positive, in order to achieve these ends at a proper time, as soon as possible. Less mistrust, less pessimism. "Críticas demoorras a mansava las tenos tenas tenas todas que residus, pero qué no un poco más de acitiviva y arás de colaborción?" The spokesman for Podemos says: 30 days or five months. Well, I don't know what the answer would be, but the counselor said "December 9." Take out the account and I'm sure it's true, because he also detailed the entire itinerary. Many headlines on the eastern issue of garbage and waste. And so much so, it's one of my favorite topics. I have already commented on some occasion in this Parliament, also in previous legislatures, that we have been half-lived discussing almost everything, I am not going to say that everything is in vain. That is, there would have been many of those headlines left, if not because they had a very clear political intention behind them. I think the half-way we made is good. And you said you were on the side of a point, and I think it's okay. But I think there's other points that might be interesting and voting, and so I'd like to ask you to think about it. Podemosek aurkeztu duen zuzenketan badaude zenbait gauza komentatu nahiko nituzkeenak. "Leave the policy of healing behind." And you read that and you say, how is that possible? If the law itself and all the regulations, not only ours, at all levels, demands and establishes processes of demand for cure. If everyone considers that the most effective measure in terms of environmental protection is the policy of remedial action, beyond the processing of sanctioning files in the medium term, within the time frame laid down by administrative regulations. It's the most effective thing. Do not allow any more landfills. El Proyceto del nuevo Plan de Prevención y Resinduos 2030 de Residuos es ambiciso y lo en muchas cosas, tamen'n suenciolidad de no giitarares de vertido. But let's not deceive ourselves. Even if we're going to do new goals very well, we'll have to make room for a lot of tons of non-death debris in the next few years. And we know that and you know it too. We all know. Unfortunately, because our life creates a lot of debris. Ours, all of us. No one's ever been saved here. And unfortunately, because they don't disappear just by wishing for debris. Por cyto, among all the disputes I have alluded to, I have had many and many of them about magic, but we do not believe in it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Together, Monsieur Martezinón, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u127	Yes, thank you. That's what we wanted with our corrections. the creation of discussion. It is true that we did not enter the middle way, but, as I have said at first, some points will assume our approval and others the negative. I'll explain. For example, the vote about the plan will be negative, because, as I have shown before, it will pass through, and because we will give our contribution and our final vote and explain our attitude. We are talking about the policy of curing requirements between quotes and in a somewhat rhetorical way, although I understand that it may be difficult to understand the rhetorical part in a written text without any kind of context, but I explain it to you. When we are talking about ending the policy of remedial requirements, we are talking about what I said in the first part: that virtually no one is punished. We are not talking about sanctions because yes, but that widespread policy of remediation, without ever reaching the policy of sanctions, has led for a long time to a total freedom to do in many places what companies have wanted with waste management in those landfills. That is what we are talking about with the completion of the policy of remedial requirements, which must obviously follow its procedure, but this cannot be the policy that is being carried out forever. As for Mrs Tapia's dates, it is written what she replied to us in those two answers and what we intended to illustrate with those two answers from Mrs Tapia: that there was an inconsistency between 30 days and five months. We already know that it is 30 days for partial cure and five months for the last cure. What we wanted to illustrate with this is that we need to go further in the inspection plans, that we have new technologies available to the public, in this case the Basque Government, in order to improve the inspection carried out in landfills, to know what the companies that go to landfills are pouring out at all times. This could be monitored practically in real time by the Government. That is what we are demanding, and that is why it seems to us that the compromise that has been reached is unambitious. We will not support it as a whole, but, from what I have heard, they will let us vote for points and we will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u128	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. The representative of EH Collector, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u129	I'm sorry about the hours, but there's always something to say, I wish it wasn't. Dear lady, one thing, don't mistake: I didn't say I didn't like the draft of the waste plan or like it. I'd say backwards: what I have read, almost everything, I love it very much, seems very interesting to me. It seems to me that we have to share, and that we have to give some chances of making a few offers, which I'm saying. I really like it on principle. You know what I like about other things? It's said, if things are right, it doesn't need new dumps. Sin pensamenito mágico, he says plans, I don't say it. I wish we could do things so well that we wouldn't need new dumps. Dede luego, I'd sign it, we'd sign it. But don't be mistaken. If you want degenerate criticism, I'm talking about something else. Now I'm going to that. Baina, ahaztu lehenago bath, Larrea andrea, me from the love, if you like, but check your wallet. I tell you that you had an interesting proposal, as I see it, which was to strengthen human and material resources, and you were talking about job relationships and you were talking about time frames. And the amendment has remained in strengthening the inspection tasks, very different from what you proposed. And it is something that gives me a clue, because the draft Waste Prevention and Management Plan does talk about strengthening the inspection, and yet today the groups that support the Government have not wanted to approve or support that amendment or express it more explicitly, so I am already afraid that so much support for the inspection will not be forthcoming. EH Bildutik datozen kritikek hainbesteko amorrua-edo ematen disutetene, nik kritika egin dut on inspection work and on impulse, on the work that officials have to do and on the political impulse that the defense of environmental legislation has to have. I am going to go to one of Ararteko's last resolutions or considerations, on another issue, of a petition on a Petronor-related issue. But I'm not going to talk about Petronor. I'm going to talk about what Ararteko says, because I think it's a matter of modus operandi, systematic practice, which is what he mentioned as the main criticism. The reference is 403/2020 QC, March 25, that is, nothing. And what Ararteko says is very interesting. It analyses the laws a little bit and talks about the transposition of the 2010 European directive, which you mentioned in your transactional, the last transposition or the consolidated text is from 2016, that of the IPPC. After doing all the analysis, after explaining how the functions of inspection, control and sanction belong to the autonomous communities – therefore, to the environmental body of the Basque Government – he says: "the inspection actions are the basis for the initiation of the other powers of environmental discipline, such as the sanctioning power". He further states: "The obligation to exercise these powers for public administrations is an inescapable consequence of the principle of legality and the prohibition of arbitrariness arising from article 9.3 of the Constitution." He goes on to say: "for this reason, the initiation of the sanctioning file is regulated, since it is a duty for the competent organs of the Administration to prosecute administrative offences". He alludes to a Supreme Court ruling that "the powers, also in this matter, are irrevocable and must be exercised subject to the principle of legality by the organ that has them". And he concludes: "in conclusion, in view of the fact of an inspection of an offence covered by environmental legislation, such as the failure to comply with the conditions laid down in the integrated environmental authorisation – and here I am going from Petronor to Zaldibar and Zalla, and could go to more sites – the competent body of the Administration has an obligation to initiate the corresponding sanctioning file, since there is no administrative discretion in this area". There is no discretion, it cannot be decided that it is not sanctioned. And this is very clearly typified. Because the consolidated text, beyond the division of powers, speaks of infringements and says that it is a serious breach to breach the conditions laid down in the integrated environmental authorisation, even if there has been no damage. It's serious. And you tell me about the IRAM method, which you use for inspections of mild and moderate violations and so on. There is no mild or moderate typification. It is a serious offence, which is criminalized. In addition, in the event of a serious infringement, the fines, temporary closures or what needs to be done are explained. It's a regular procedure. This Government is systematically moving from this inescapable rule-based procedure to a discretionary procedure that depends on the political momentum, on the interests of the parties that govern this country. And that's what has to end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u130	Thank you, Mr. Otero. We're not going to argue and vote for the popular Basque Group-Ciudadans, Basque Socialists, and the Middle Amendment signed by the Eubertarians. No points requested. Please, what are the points? How's the vote?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u131	One, six, seven, eight, one, two, three, four, five from the other.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u132	Okay. So we vote for 1, 6, 7 8. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 41; the votes given, 73; the supporters of 53; the contrary, 0; abstaining, 20; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u133	So they're accepted. Next up, 2, 3, 4, 5, we'll vote for points. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 41; the votes given, 73; the supporters, 47; the contrary, 0; abstaining, 26; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-04-15.u134	So the rest of the points have been accepted. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-three.
