ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the staff of the Jewish community, Jon Andon Ainja Sainz Euncier, the Governor-General of the Governors and of the Autobernus, the measures to cooperate with local institutions." Mr. Cuckoo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, good days to all. During the 27th of October, when the principal aims and furrows of his departments for this legislation were brought to light, the head physician of the Ministry of Public and Autogoury declared that it was one of them that the co-working mechanism of the organizations should be strengthened by the cooperation of all the public offices in the Essquimian Escany. Did you make any effort to facilitate the daily activity of the organizations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u2	Thank you, Mr. Akuk. Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u3	Thank you. President, Chief, congressmans, good morning. Mr. Cuckoo, as you say, the co-ordination of the organizations in the cultured and supported projects is of great importance. The collaborative government is a column between the strategic furrows of our department, a standard of discipline based on conversation and organization, which is in the heart of the neighbourhood, which aims at common efficiency and common well-being. In this respect, we are strengthening the mechanism of cooperation from the Ministry of Public and Autogronnus and the Estates. As an example, I would like to discuss the activity of the Public Administration on the whole stage of interopulation between the electronic Administration and the institutions. In this sense, based on the knowledge of the reality of the local administration, we have addressed an existing problem, especially in the smaller institutions. The aim is to provide temporary coverage for Secretariat-Intervention posts, which are staff members of the national Local Government. There is a circumstance that today a large number of posts reserved for these staff are vacant or without the incumbent occupying the post. This is mainly due to the retirements that have been taking place in recent years. To this must be added the complexity of having to carry out processes of this kind to which they are not accustomed and which are not part of their day-to-day life. These are key positions that perform necessary public functions. On the one hand, the secretariat, including public faith and mandatory legal advice, and on the other hand, internal control and control of financial and budgetary economic management, as well as accounting, treasury and collection. The obligation to fill these posts, of a necessary nature in local entities, makes it necessary on numerous occasions to attend the position of appointment on a temporary basis. The absence of these employments makes the councils extremely difficult, and hinders them from their daily employment. They are among their undertakings to prove and give faith, and to accomplish legal reports, to ensure the financial security of local institutions. To give an answer to this problem, the order that we published on May 6th of the newspaper official will form a special list of candidates in the settlements for secretary-counters' jobs. The object of this appeal is to answer as quickly as possible for the duties we are speaking of, which at this moment require and demand the greatest. The elections of the place will be able to appeal to that purse unless the proceedings are called by themselves. We've made an attempt to reach most people, and they're already registered by 685. Lastly, considering that candidates must fulfill the fourth and third profession of language, it presupposes an undoubted advance on the way to maintain and work in local institutions. We really hope that this initiative which we have undertaken is useful to the relief and repair of the difficulties of the eucalypticities, and also to the young men of high training. That's our double intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. I'm telling you, the 12th point has been retired. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, which has been made by the members of the legislature of the Maddalen Council to the president, the president's opinion of our ability to respond in integration and efficiency with the tools of our current self-organization." Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u5	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. President. In the light of today's news, first of all, I'd like to remember Alberto Solozin and above all Joaquín Beltrán. Mr. Urkullu, since the New World III, more than 45,000 people have been infected by the covida, hospitals have been overflowing for the past few weeks, and last week they've been killed 39 people. That's why it's so shocking to think that when you answer a question I'm asking, it's like a self-referring tool to face the pandemia in a perfect and efficient way. Therefore, I'd like to know what's meant in a perfectly effective way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u7	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. I'm starting today with all the people who have worked with them, with their relatives, and their mothers, and their mothers, in the stables of the Horsebar for three months. Mrs. Irrie art, as far as human nature is limited, requires an integral and effective response to real life, to assume limits and to have the ability to face them. So, what do we understand in the real situation that we live in, with the integral and effective response? Euskadi is in the same rank as any advanced country, more perhaps than in his size and in his own proportion. And that's basically the integral and effective response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Iriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u9	I think it's something to say or not say. And what we've seen in the meantime is disorder. Sánchez has suspended the alarm, after prayers and letters, in any case, as he predicted. I admit it may be irresponsible, but no surprise. And you made a plan which you told the judges before this law, and the judges abandon that plan, and from that point forward you would give advice to the people and wait for them. And what are we doing? Well, for the rest of the time, if we're lucky and the curve goes down, something we all want. That's right, it's always the other one's fault. We have not enough tools, Mr. Urkullu; and besides, what we have have have have have not been built in such an effective manner as to apply it, and you know it. Mr Urkullu, if you have to take unpopular measures, I cannot take them for you, but if they have scientific basis and are agreed, there will be Euskal Herria Bildu. I'm telling you today as I told you at the time, and you know it. This week I read a tweet, because yes, soap we give everything: "Euskadi at the head of the European Quality Index of Government 2021". A report from the University of Gothenburg that, reading the 40 pages, well, you can't even call it fake news Look, I just wanted to tell you something since you told me in the previous check room: From the first day of this crisis, we have been brought to this parliament with the attention of the citizens, not only to this Combatt, but to the Department of Health, the chief physician of the Medical Department, and even to you. Compination, descale, testez, rastreo And in 16 long months the attitude of this government has been to avoid responsibilities, because when we asked for more tests, they told us that the necessary ones were done. Then we saw that no. When we said that vaccinations had to be accelerated, we were told to put sticks on the wheels. Then they put on the batteries. This week, a day I've been alarmed yes and another day I've been alarmed no, and the next day quite the opposite. And there's no one to clear up. I told you 15 days ago if it was possible to join a diagnosis with mistakes and instructions made and received, not to repeat them. And then you didn't answer me. An independent team of experts has made that reflection on the order of health organization. Several countries have already begun in the process of examining the consequences: The auditorium, which has a scientific basis, made a wide balance, for a team of experts agreed on, what has been done well, what has been done wrong, and above all for better purposes of the future. This week we've seen various experts from the Basque Country, experts from various disciplines, the White Book of COVID-19 Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Iriart. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Irrie, would you tell me whether I had answered your contribution since the meeting between us? Unpopular measures. These are unpopular measures that this Government has had to implement. And you say you're willing to share the unpopular measures. Tell me about it. Is it possible to say this to all the sectors that live on its agenda ( He's out of control. Atzoko osokoan was zen esan, age erepikatzea deserved duel you had. Heregun ezagututako azterketaren emaitza irakuriko dut: "Vasco country is the community with the best health service of the State, according to the report of the Federation of Associations for the Defense of Public Health". Atzo, Göteborgeko Unibertsitaren azterketaren says: "Euskadi heads the Government's European Quality Index of 2021 and its relationship with the COVID-19 indicators". Thus it is in the answer given to pandemia, though only from the part of health. We're one of the most talented countries in Europe. We've shown the sanitary ability to treat all people who get sick. Our incomes in hospitals are below state average. This is a self-gorgan. This is an example of public and solidarity built throughout the four decades. The pandemic is global and the solutions are global. It is true that we do not have the capacity to buy vaccines, nor the state, and we assume the centralised purchase of the European Union. It is true that the priority groups to be vaccinated determine them between the European Medicines Agency and the Interterritorial Council. It is true that we led, in part, by an organic health law and a state of alarm of which – I remind you – you also approved your extension. It is also true that our capacity for self-government improves the comprehensive response: complement to ERTs, GIRs higher than minimum living income, reinforcement of health or education professionals, guarantees to businesses and autonomous people, COVID Fund for two years of 1.6 billion, more than 100 million aid each month of pandemic. Incompatibility is the integral based on realism Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Julie St. Vicente Basque Sociialist, made to the chief physician of Tourism, commerce, and Kotsumo, in the Euskædi 2021 Fitur fair. " Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u13	President, ladies and gentlemen, Councillor for Trade, Tourism and Consumer Affairs. I think we're going to talk about good expectations for the future today. We walked firmly towards the end of the pandemic. Vaccination and individual responsibility for health measures help to see already a recovery horizon in relation to how we were before the start of this pandemic. The tourism sector is one of the most punished sectors, most affected by this pandemic. He's been working hard with him all this time. The Basque Government has invested 21 million euros trying to replenish it and help it in this difficult time. But at the moment we are moving from politics in a somewhat passive way to the possibility of active politics. To understand what the tourism sector in Euskadi means, the last reference year was 2019, and in 2019 the spending on tourism was €5 billion; we were growing to almost 4% compared to the previous year. And we have reached a weight in gross domestic product of 6.4%; this means a very important portion for the economy and for employment. It is therefore possible to recover that situation and to improve it. I think a couple of weeks ago, a couple of months ago, we would've thought summer would get on us too fast. Perhaps, at the moment, we can begin to see the summer and, therefore, to see the expectation of tourism in a much more hopeful way. For this reason, the Fatur fair, an international tourism fair of the two most important in the world, opens the doors next week, after having cancelled the previous year and after having delayed this year. And in it there will be many new developments, and we will also see the potential of tourism for the economy and for employment. Euskadi has always been a highlight of that fair. It has always brought its new features and the attractions with which we want to receive tourism from all places in this country, even we want internal tourism to move as well. And that is why next week is a very important date for the economic promotion and tourism promotion of this country, and that is why this question comes, and that is why the interest of doing so in this parliamentary seat, just a few days before the celebration of this important event. And it's just, Mr. Hurtado, you can tell us here, what leads to Fitur. What will be shown in the eyes of all tourism in Spain, of all European and world tourism, so that Euskadi is one of the attractive destinations that can start to walk with a firm step from the overcoming of this pandemic that has led us to this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u14	Thank you, Mr Price. To answer, Mr. Hurtado, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Egun on, good morning. Thank you, Mr. Prieto. Indeed, Fatur is one of the great references for the tourism sector. One of the most important international tourism fairs in Europe. And Euskadi has, in fact, regularly attended this fair to show its tourist offer, the news in the field of tourism, to expose the resources and products of the different territories and municipalities that request it, and to support the work of companies and professionals in the sector. And it is that this is the first big tourist fair that is held face-to-face in this 2021, and that has served for years, and will continue to serve, as a showcase of Euskadi's tourist offer to the world. This year 2021 Euskadi is coming to Fitur in a pandemic scenario and with conditions very different from those of other editions, due to restrictions on leisure, health measures and the situation of the tourism sector. Precisely in this context from the Department of Tourism, Commerce and Consumption we consider it more necessary than ever to attend this fair, for the following reasons. Firstly, as I said at the outset, the tourism sector has been one of the most affected by the pandemic, with visitors losing 70 % in 2020, and many companies unable to operate in one year. In addition to the special condition, for example, to travel agencies, which have had to deal with the return of reserves, without receiving them in many cases from airlines or tour operators. That is why, as you have mentioned, we have launched the tourism support plan and the 1,688 companies that requested it are already receiving the amounts corresponding to those 18 million aid. In addition, we have already called for the three ordinary aid programmes for the tourism sector in the department. Aid which this year we have wanted to advance and speed up and which is provided with another EUR 3 million. The aim is to support the sector as soon as possible in the process of reactivation, with support for entrepreneurship, territorial tourism projects and the creation and promotion of tourism products. Secondly, the presence of Euskadi in Fatur is important because the promotion of destination should not be stopped even in a situation of limitations of international mobility. It is a question of adapting the promotion to keep the image of Euskadi present as a safe, varied and quality destination, not only as attraction action of visitors, but for marketing And, thirdly, the sector demands this presence in Fatur and in other forums where it can accompany them and strengthen their presence, boosting their contacts, stimulating the dynamism and facilitating the activity of professionals and companies. For this reason, in this edition Euskadi comes to Fitur with a central idea: that the protagonist role is of the companies and the professionals of the tourism sector. We also want this role to be shared with the territories that accompany us, through parliaments, municipalities, regions and associations, giving a greater projection to the presentations of their products and their resources. For this reason, the presence of Euskadi in Fatur in this 2021 is going to pivot on the axis of the work of our professionals, of the companies that have been resisting dumps to innovate, reinvent and work on recovery. And it is that Euskadi has a competitive sector trained and prepared to face the future. And we'll be by your side at all times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u16	Thank you, Mr. Hurtado. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, "The hatred of Mi is made by the members of the Podemos-Ituerda Unidas to the president, the state of health in a new context without alarm." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u17	Thank you, ma'am. We don't have an alarm condition, it's over, but the virus hasn't gone. This situation, but we can't say we got caught by surprise. We knew that the state of alarm was coming to an end at a time of high cumulative incidence in Euskadi. One could have asked for the state of partial alarm, it is being said, and they decided at first that not. It is true that they have recently left the door open. In this decision they know that we would support them, that we would agree, bath, zuek zeuen burua ere argitu egin behar duzue zentzu horretan. In addition to the issue of the state of alarm and the current data on the virus on the table, how do the Government and the lehendakari assess the current health situation?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. I read in words the last part of the letter sent to President Pedro Sánchez, in which I reflected what our purpose was, what was our contribution, and what our honesty. From that point on, in answer to the question, we have the reasons for hope, but we must keep on listening. If the tendency is good, we must make a final effort to say that we have entered a new stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours. (He spoke with the receiver off. )...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u21	Aurrekoan is naked, and I say it again: why does he not bet on strengthening public health, hiring more staff, expanding beds? What use will be made, in this case, of the need for private health resources? They say they have a plan, but the truth is we don't know very well what that plan is. To say that the operation is either seriously or seriously suspended is of no use to it. The challenge actually is not to have to paralyze those operations. And the key to that is to know what health management bet we make and what our priorities are. It's true, and it's good news that the insertion process is fasting. But we are faced with a problem that is a little similar too, and it is that last week we learned that they are asking for volunteers for vaccination in Araba. Volunteers are asked to make a move, to accompany them to do some errand or something, but volunteers to vaccinate? Doesn't look like it's very serious. This week there was nurses' international day and they said they're tired, they're doing a hell of a job and they're right. And we think it's our job to take care of them this time too. But guard requires planning, serious management, and concrete political bets. Bet on strengthening public health so we don't get involved exclusively with debates about state of alarm yes, state of alarm no. Let us focus on what is important, which is the lung of our community and which is to have a quality health and prepared for difficult situations, with a staff that is not exhausted. We have a chance now with the anti-pandemic law. That it is not a law that is devoted to regulating punishment. Let it be a law that is dedicated, that focuses on dealing with the pandemic. Let's get to work.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Hatsies, since last week, and this week the state of health has been particularly improved. The result rate has descended from 400 cases, the number of fillings in ZIU has descended from 195 to 153, and the positive percentage has dropped from 5%. The descending rate is strong. We've managed to lower 200 points in two weeks. The occupation of the bed of the ZUs is from five to five on the third stage and is a clear tendency to stabilize. You know, it's a good thing to complain about. We put $1,000 vaccine on it. In all, 800,000 people have received at least one dose, and 300,000 people have already received two doses. So, the reason for hope, yes, but be on your guard. We are on the right line: positive cases below 5% and low in the incidence rate and in the occupation of ICUs. The reproductive rate is 16 days below 1. This anticipates the decline in positive cases. Vaccination is progressing. Mrs Gorrotxategi, volunteers on the basis of what the Inter-Territorial Council has proposed: in view of the large number of vaccines that appear to be arriving, the possibility that retired health care workers can also participate in the administration of the vaccine. In any case, the public health system has always offered answers and has not needed to refer patients to private hospitals. The programming of non-urgent operations can be resumed soon if the decline in ICUs is maintained at the pace I have mentioned. We therefore have reasons for hope and confidence. The non-amendment at the time of the Organic Health Law, the orders of the High Court of Justice, the end of the state of alarm, without an alternative of legal coverage, to which I have so much appealed, have limited our capacity. But that's it. I said it last week. We're not going to stop in lamentations. We have a decree in force, with very clear measures and recommendations. With regard to the proposal for a law, Mrs Gorrotxategi, you know the willingness we have expressed to receive the contributions. We have still received those from your parliamentary group this Tuesday. In any case, we are ready to continue working. This and the next two or three weeks will be crucial in bringing together two objectives: to minimize the incidence rate and to maximize vaccination with the vaccines we have. Both objectives have a shared goal: to reduce the risk of infection and morbidity and mortality. This removes the situation of care tension in hospitals and ICUs. It is up to us to immunize all people over 50 as soon as possible. And, at the same time, it is up to us, starting with each of us and ourselves, to limit mobility and groupings, to maintain interpersonal distance and social bubble. Everything to reduce the risk of contagion. Perseverance and record in the number of tests, the traceability of cases, the ongoing analysis of the reproductive rate, the incidence rates accumulated in 7 and 14 days to reduce the number of people killed, as well as the occupancy of beds. We're in the final stage. Let's keep making an effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the Angulo Euskal Groups of Popular-Ciudads, the president's state of alarm after the end of the Euskata." My dear sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Even today, the first words of my team will be to send support and a big hug to the family of Alberto Sololot and, especially Joaquín Beltran. Good morning, President, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are no longer talking about futures or hypotheses. Last day, the state of alarm ended, and the responsibility of the President of the Government and his supporters has been fulfilled. As expected, the lack of an adequate legal framework meant that judges were against the maintenance of curfews and perimeter closures. It seems, at last, that we leave the red zone, although with many saw teeth in some indicators, as you know, and some unfortunate situations of risk –minorities, it is true – in our streets. His partner, Mr Sánchez, says every day that the autonomous communities have plenty of instruments to act in the face of the pandemic. And we also see daily paradoxes, with a common denominator, which is regrettable, from my point of view: the none to which you are subjected by Mr Sánchez, your partner. Nothing indicates that this situation, lehendakari, can change soon. And so I ask you: how do you assess the situation in Euskadi in relation to COVID-19, after the end of the state of alarm?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u26	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Iturgaiz, I appreciate it with hope, but at the same time, with a self-requirement of self-responsibility, of self-limitation, which also transfers to society as a whole, as I did on Friday last week, and a hope based on the data that we are now working on, but in tension, to continue to maintain the tension that we have been showing so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. The word is yours, sir.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u29	Well, look, in that self-requirement you were telling us about, I think in that context there are paradoxes and scandals on your part, and I'll explain it to you. Paradox of paradoxes is that, for example, the delegate of the government of his partner, Mr Sánchez, in Madrid, asks for greater restrictions and curfews for the capital, where nobody has asked, by the way, but of course, as Mrs Ayuso, who is from the PP, governs there. And yet, when you ask for the same or very similar for Euskadi, Mr Sánchez does not accept the request, nor does he, nor does he allow himself to give his own partner a snitch, Mr Urkullu. Mr Sánchez had the decision taken, he did not intend to do anything, he has left him motionless, stuck in the site, and it is late to react, you have lost a golden opportunity to support the legal plan that we have offered you both in Madrid and in this forum, my group and myself, and all that remains is to put rags on the open waterways in the fight against the pandemic. It was difficult to know the position of his Government. 15 days ago you made here boast of the unity of your executive, you will remember. So, Mrs. Mendia was asking for a state of alarm to the letter. You here, at the door of the House, rejected it; however, according to Mr Erkoreka, you do not rule it out. So they manage it that way. At least say the same thing to all of you. And I was talking to him about snoring, too. You're suddenly still making a fuss. 48 hours ago, 48, it required citizens less individualism, less selfishness, more solidarity, and solemnly affirmed that the pandemic puts society to the test, but not an apex of self-criticism. Today we have heard you here backwards, do autobomb by pointing out that report from the University of Gothenburg. By the way, let's roll around here, let's see what people say, people are... gizratea kokoteraino dago, there is so far much of that society, because of the bad organization of vaccination, because in the first wave, you will remember it, it was lacking everything in our land for hospitals. The first nurse died here in the Basque Country. Gipuzkoa was the worst province in Europe at times. The hotel is standing at war because of its restrictions. Look, I will make it clear, of course, that the pandemic puts a whole society to the test, but it also puts governments, also its Government, to the test and in the mirror. And it's not enough to blame others or profile, as your partner, Mr. Sánchez, does. It is the governments who have to make decisions and apply the rules, rules according to legality, by the way. We know what you've done...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u30	Thank you, Mr. Iturgaz. Your time is up. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Iturgaiz, with regard to the legal plan, I invite you to go on 14 March last year and listen to the approaches that we have been making since the Basque Government regarding alternative options to a state of alarm and where the People's Party has been all this time. And also remember what I answered 15 days ago to this very question. On 9 May I do not know that your proposal for a law in the Congress of Deputies, Mr Iturgaiz, has been dealt with either. In any case, let's get to the bottom of it, the cumulative incidence rate has fluctuated at different times, but in a similar way in Euskadi and in all communities. In Euskadi we have lived it when other communities have not lived it and vice versa. Now the situation is clear and sustained improvement, the Euskadi roof was the rate of 850 cases in November. Today we're in 350 cases, it's 500 less. We live another period in February, today is 300 less than then. The decline in the current period began on 26 April. Increases and decreases have been achieved with almost the same measures in November and April. Therefore, I insist on the important: individual and collective responsibility and commitment. This isn't blaming anyone. The measures have all the experience and guarantees. Vaccination is progressing, hospital and ICU blood pressure is dropping. These 14 months we have made a great effort and we must keep it in this final stage of the pandemic, even without effective measures, which were protected by the state of alarm. I have heard so far about the hardness of the measures in Euskadi, as well as the opposite, without a complete reference, that is, in the limited framework that we have had in Euskadi in the balance between the field of health and the economy, coincidence also in the emotional. As for the results, Mr Iturgaiz, the objective data are clear: more tests and more vaccines in Euskadi than the state average, less sick people and less dead people. This is not over, much less, we must continue to fight the only enemy, Mr Iturgaiz, who is the virus. Our next goal is to reduce the rate below 200 points in the first instance. Since the summer in Euskadi each wave has touched ceiling with a lower rate. I ask you to do so, because even though I can do it, I do not want to do it, I ask you to do the exercise of identifying the relationship of communities that have at some point been in the 1,000 or more cases of 1,000 per 100,000 inhabitants. In Euskadi: in November, 850; January, 650; April, 550; in May we are at 350 and going down. This means that the measures taken, the work of Osakidetza and the effort made by Basque society, are working. The data demonstrate the value of this shared effort. Look, Mr Iturgaiz, in addition, all the Basque institutions have provided direct aid, credit lines, guarantees, tax and tax reductions, tax aid, deferred payments, consumer bonds. We have prioritized the help to those who need it most. The Basque Government has allocated 1.640 million to the COVID Fund for two years. You have also been insisting, in the past, on hospitality. More than 10,000 hotel establishments have received €3,000 and €4,000 in grants. These aids are among the highest in the state. And the result is positive, face-to-face education above 98%, open cultural and sports activity and complying with protocols, open economic, industrial and commercial activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, Jule's Arzuga Gumuzius EH Collectors made for the First Vice President and Chief of Security, the aggressive attitude shown by the border lately." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Last Friday, called Ernai, there were peaceful mutations in Bilbon and Gaste. It was a shameful, utterly unacceptable behavior, Mr. Erkoa. We could see no reason for charge, no justification for violence. The D.B., the member of the brigade, completely depressed, completely out of control, refusing to listen to the orders of their masters. We've seen a uniform agent using an extra-exploitable sticker, a journalist, who's going to collapse a photographer. Here, in the street before Parliament, we have seen a hors d'oeuvre against young men who are retreating in a hell of a force, who have proved a most disproportional violence. Por cyto, you announced the camera on the breast that that edged it with a professional number. And I don't know what he was going to do with it, but thanks be to young people and people, to find out what happened that Friday at Gastename and Bilbo. And what happened, Mr. Erkorek? That more than 65 young men had been wounded out of there, eight prisoners, and had to pass four hospitals from them. Today the organizations will census a report in this parliament, so that we all know the effect of the Edge Act. This is not normal, this is not natural, and I want to know what your opinion is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u34	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u35	Eskerrik asko... [[He spoke off the microphone.]] Mr. Azuga, you're doing too much general planning on edge-in-trade when you do your ratings. The edge, as you've been asking your question for the last time, does, like every period of time, do thousands of enterprises every day, in several areas: To solve crimes, to protect women from violence, to rescue mountains and seas, to protect traffic, to provide support to the peoples... , which is more than 90% of the edge war. And there is not the least room for violent or aggressive. He's not here. Now, when there are particular actions, when there are certain circumstances, and when they do not follow the rules they have for action, they are employed in doing so. There are Mechanisms, which you know well in the law, complaints and accusations, both in the presence of the Administration and in the presence of the courts, all of them are examined, all are transmitulated, and in its case they serve to illustrate the facts, or to purge the responsibilities. So that's exactly what I've been telling you all the time. And those who, when they are concerned, break the rules, examine them, and, in his case, if they are to be decried by the responsibilities. No problem.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u36	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u37	Mr Erkoreka, you look at certain performances and hide others. And I think he's having a hard time seeing what the reality is. And that's why he doesn't like us doing a control function, which maybe you don't want or can't do about Ertzaintza. And that is why I believe you decide to adopt an attitude that is to lie to this Parliament. You came two weeks ago to the full control saying, around a concrete action of the ultra-rightist company Desokupa, that you had not had with them, neither before, nor during, nor after, any kind of contact. And a few hours later these thugs, these mobsters, give images, in fact, questioning you and totally disallowing you, leaving you in evidence. Unfortunately, Mr Erkoreka, these thugs have more credibility today than a vice-lehendakari. And that seems to me to be regrettable, showing, indeed, that the real sham is that which you mentioned in this Parliament. I want to show you another image of the connivance between Ertzaintza and ultra-rightist positions. This was an ertzaine of those who acted in this demonstration against Ernai in the most violent way. He wears two bracelets: one is from Jusapol and the other is from Blue Lives Matter, that association that you say is perfectly legal, and that I say to him as legal as the Francisco Franco Foundation or that the Falange. And you will agree with me that it would be a scandal to carry this kind of symbolism and to exalt this type of group. For this ertzaina, of uniform and of service, not out of service in the ETB, but of uniform and of service, is exhibiting this kind of performances. Youth, workers, hosts, all the people are fighting when they protest, Mr. Erkoa. And I want to know if this is the recipe that you'll use from now on against those who demand measures in this pandermy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u38	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u39	Chief of Parliament. Look, you are committed to elevating to the category of collective Ertzaintza conduct and group activity what may be, I do not deny it, individual, individual conducts that are susceptible to liability and debugging of your conducts by mechanisms that you as a lawyer know perfectly well and know are being handled through the exercise of control that you exercise over this Parliament. With regard to the photo you have taught me, check whether it is real or not, and whether it corresponds to that day or not, because that day the suit of the Ertzaintza was different, they wore long sleeves. I mean, check all this stuff that's fixed on the network. Another thing, there is a company that you permanently repudiate, but it gives you credibility and is campaigning the company through the incredible media. This very week you have released a virtual video without any reality and you have made a whole campaign that for the only thing that has served is for that company to be known now by many more people, possible applicants for your services. By the way, look, in the case of the Ertzaintza there is no collective collective attitude of animation with respect to any collective. None. I have already told you, moreover, that the attitudes that govern the performance of the Ertzaintza are all incompatible with those of extreme violence that you have collected. However, there are collective, group attitudes that resemble hatred, such as these, for example, that express a message of hatred against the Ertzaintza, note what it says: "denok gorroto dugu police". Who are sponsored by you, by collectives framed on the left abertzale, who are at the gates of the hate crime of article 510 of the Criminal Code. Look at them, because these are organized, these are collective and sponsored by you and these can be at the origin of a very serious hate crime, organized and sponsored by the organization. This is collective, the rest are debuggings and personal actions that can be perfectly processed, solved and debugged through the legally established mechanisms, as it is every day that we process disciplinary files for those who, on the basis of proven and accredited grounds, can demonstrate that there have actually been proceedings that are out of bounds or contrary to the rules established for the proportional performance of Ertzaintza in all areas and actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u40	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interpologies of the United States of the House of Representatives, Vice Presidents, Work, and Empedugus, to the thread of the first of May concerning the proclamations made by Euscal unions in the field of work." Mrs. Pazis, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u41	Good morning, everyone. We have just passed the first of May, and though we all probably know it, I want to remember what we celebrate on the first of May. On May 1st, the great and important strike of workers that had been made in Chicago in 1886. In this strike the workingmen proclaimed a work of eight hours. To obtain this right, which we now consider to be the fundamental, there was need for eight hours of labour, blood, sweat, and tears. When we have seen that there is a tendency to criminalize the strike, and when we have seen that the border strikes the workers who concentrate on the defence of employment in front of the legislature, I think it is necessary to remember what we celebrate in the first of May. To those who say that fighting is not worth fighting, or that it is what it is, or to those who think all strike is improper, it is necessary to remind them what we celebrate in the first of May. So from this point on, we send our support and our spirit to all the workers who are fighting in the defence of employment during these difficult times. On May's first, at these pandemy times, the workers and unions have filled the streets of the Basque Country, and we have once heard their proclamations. I suppose the Government has also heard the concerns which have been thrown out of those streets, and the proclamations which have been made. The Pandemy period has a uncertain future, but it is no longer easy for many people to-day; What's the purpose of the chairman of the Department of Job and Employgue in front of the proclamations made by the unions? What does Mrs. Mountain intend to defend employment and promote high-quality employment? Before the Pandemia, the situation of employment was qualitative and quantumly bad, and after that, the most alarming is the change and uncertainty. We have the same problems on the table that have become chronic: tenority, instability, intensibility, long duration, partial unemployment, devotions of wages, poor workmen, the scandalous rate of the fructification of the young or the young men who are suffering. All these draw the pretorial pattern of laboring, and this pretor model renders employment, and consequently the laborers, the people, the lives, the life, to the purpose. We who truly believe that we must leave this crisis without leaving any one behind, think that a crisis caused by panic cannot be handled with the same instrument as the previous crisis. That's why the Basque Country, it's supposed to be very important to revoke the form of work. Revoking the form of work has also been the proclamation of all the unions in May. The work-reform took the benches out of the previous crisis and placed a few economic interests in the centre. Now, as the pandemine has shown us, people, life is the place to be placed in the centre. To do this, employment must cease to be only another variable of labour, it must recover its social value, and place itself first in the political diary. On 20 May, one year of the agreement signed by the Government of Madrid and Euskal Herria Bildu will be fulfilled, where it is expressly agreed to repeal the Labour Reform. And, Mrs Mendia, we would also like to ask you about the implementation of this agreement, as your party is also a signatory to it. As the unions have said on 1 May, it is time for change and it is time to comply. Time to comply with this agreement and time to comply also with the commitments of his Government's programme in Madrid. The pandemic has highlighted this need to comply with the agreed, because the Labour Reform imposed by the PP government has done nothing but increase injustice, precariousness and exclusion. And this is because this Labour Reform, as it should be remembered, brought about the reduction of red carpets for red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red red To this end, they reinvented the causes that companies can benefit from to justify collective redundancies. The Labour Reform invented, reinvented, a concept of crisis that consists in being able to justify dismissals not only on the basis of the company's current losses, but also on the possibility of having them. They broadened the concept of crisis not only to the economic and/or productive difficulties of the company, but also to the fact of diminishing profits. And there's an ERE to destroy the job presented by the BBVA. They eliminated ERE control by the employment councils of the autonomous governments. And in the absence of agreement between company and trade union representation, today the last word in an ERE is the company. Where appropriate, it is up to the workers to correct the abuses of enterprises in difficult and ex post facto judicial review. This same week, at their appearance in committee, the trade union representatives of Tubacex, on an indefinite strike since 11 February against the ERE applied by the company, sent us the need to repeal this harmful part of the labor reform, of which they are also being victims. The Labour Reform conditions trade union action and collective bargaining as a basic instrument in improving working conditions, disincentives social dialogue and collective bargaining, sets a one-year deadline for collective agreements which have been terminated by the end of ultraactivity, centralizes collective bargaining and gives priority to collective enterprise and state agreements, which has led to a deterioration of working conditions in our field. Collective bargaining as a source of rule-making agreed in the current legal framework is included in a model regulation of labour relations in which the State has exclusive legislative competence. Therefore, when the Labour Reform includes measures aimed at the stateization of the conventions and, therefore, also of the areas of negotiation, this means losing one of the few instruments that we have in our community to regulate working conditions. I therefore believe that advocating the repeal of the centralization of collective bargaining operated by the Labour Reform is also a defence of self-government. I will probably be answered that the area of competence for the repeal of the Labour Reform is not here. But the rules of play imposed by the Labour Reform are here, they are applied here and they condition any public employment policy that your Government can set in motion, however ambitious it may be. And that is why we also put it in this Parliament, because when we talk about how to defend employment, we believe that we cannot act as if the context in which these employment policies should be implemented does not exist or does not matter. Great are they, Mrs. digitalization, the ecological crisis and the equality of women and men. Therefore, Mrs. Mountain, we want to know what your plans are in front of that, after listening to the proclamations of unions in the first of May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. To answer, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u43	Thank you, ma'am. And thank you, Mrs. Pazis Garcia, for introducing this interpelation. Good morning, everyone. Well, if you like, I answer you as belonging to the same party that presides over the Government of Spain and has the commitment, since you assumed the political responsibility to lead that party and when you came to the Government, to repeal the Labour Reform. But I in this Parliament appear as a member of the Basque Government and as a political leader in Euskadi, and therefore, if I may, Mrs Garcia, I will respond to what we are doing from these responsibilities. The Basque Government is giving answers to many of the questions that are being asked by the trade unions at a festival as marked as that of May Day. And we will also respond from this responsibility of government and not to those other issues that you have mentioned and derailed throughout your intervention linked to the Labour Reform and which are, logically, not on the agenda of this government. And among those you quote is not something as new as what we are doing. And what we are doing I mentioned at this very parliamentary seat just two weeks ago, on questions from the Socialist Group. And I explained to all parliamentarians that from the Basque Government we are designing a Basque Employment Strategy that we want to share with Parliament, which looks at the year 2030 and which wants to generate a new right for Basque citizens in terms of what it has to do with something as important as continuing training for employment, ensuring its employability on a permanent basis so that they do not lose that job, that is to say, arriving before the problem arises. Therefore, this new right is going to be fundamental to tackle this precariousness that we both share as a concern: the right to training and activation for employment. And that is something very new, very ambitious and part of that strategy that I point out to you, which is very much worked out with the social and economic actors, and which is also a pact that commits the Basque Government. And it also commits, as I said, as it is a strategy that looks to 2030, not only to this government, but also to the next governments, because two more legislatures will pass. I have therefore asked to appear in this Parliament and, in addition, I have asked to appear in a special way, be it with motions for resolutions. Because it seems to me that it is important to listen to everyone, but not just listen, but that we can all have the opportunity to contribute and enrich that strategy, because it has to be the road map that marks the job we want in 2030. And there I invite you to make the contributions you consider, from the Euskal Herria Bildu group, to enrich that Basque employment strategy, so that we can all share it and we can all work it, each from where we are, from our responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Mrs. Garcia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u45	Good morning again. Since the beginning of the pandemic, we know that we are living in times of even greater uncertainty for employment, for which we will need more than ever policies to put people in front of the labour market and to be able to protect them from loss and lack of employment. This requires a comprehensive employment policy. That is, not only policies capable of activating the search for employment, which are important, including training for employment, is true, but it is also necessary to protect and accompany them when they do not have access to employment, and this is also called having passive employment policies, which we do not have and have not heard you in your intervention either miss them or claim them. I have read the Basque Employment Strategy 2030 to which you have referred, presented by your Government, and I will tell you that it is difficult to get an idea of how we can get out of the inertia, so far, of employment policies without having new instruments. It's hard. We believe that we need leadership and courage to put the employment debate in its entirety, without Corsican. We believe that the perspective maintained for years must be abandoned and that, as we have seen, it does not produce the results we need. The prospect of developing Basque public employment policy cannot continue to be limited to doing what is possible with the few instruments and competences we have. The prospect of drawing up public employment policy must be based on debate in order to know what Basque society needs so that in these times of uncertainty and job insecurity, quality employment can be guaranteed and people can be given sufficient social protection if they lose it or do not have access to employment. I think we've been doing the debate backwards for too many years. And the results are there: a work landscape characterized by unemployment and precariousness. You say that you only speak as an Employment Advisor to the Basque Government and leave the issue of Labour Reform for Madrid. But I believe that the Basque unions, when they left the streets, also call on this government and also call on this government to enforce the agreement and commitments to repeal the Labour Reform. Because I believe that the workers who have manifested themselves in this May Day and the unions know that it is incompatible to present strategies for quality employment and to maintain an employment reform whose objective is precisely the opposite. But when we ask to repeal the Labour Reform, we are not saying that we have to go back to the previous situation. The Labour Reform must be repealed in order to rethink a new model of labour relations. The Spanish Minister said 21st. that the state of the staff of the century is necessary, because the present is old age. It rests on the industrial and masculin model of laboring, and does not respond to the actual reality. And I agree with that reflection. But even the State of Workers has aged 40 years ago, because other national realities, with its own social and unional reality, are based on the model of relations of works which it negates. 21st In this new example of the workings of the age, we ought to discuss and decide here by the sociational and synthesis of the eroscal operators. the century's work code. And just listen to you, we'll have a chance to continue talking about this subject and planning suggestions, but when you hear you, it's clear that only social and unionization can give you a chance to comply with the agreement that's still necessary for re-establishing the work form. And in that impulse the unions will also be in support of the Basque Country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u47	Mrs Garcia, it's hard for you to see how something can be done about the job in Euskadi without having new tools. Well, I believe that in Euskadi it has witnessed the momentum that has been given by the Basque Government and this Parliament throughout all the years of self-government, since the adoption of the Statute of Gernika, how the Basques have been building self-government by extending rights with our own tools, and I will give you a recent example, the right to housing, for example. But we've built the income guarantee income, we've also done it with the tools at our fingertips. Therefore, I have always had confidence in Basque institutions and in Basque self-government and in the ability that, through agreement and constant work, we can improve people's lives. I, at least, am in politics for that. And I firmly believe in the capacity we have, and I also believe in the commitment made by the Spanish Government in the Congress of Deputies to amend and repeal this reform, which – I agree with you – does not have to be a derogation, but rather we have to make a new labour law, a new statute for workers of this century, in line with what we are being asked for by the circumstances we are already intending to see coming into this new world of labour relations in the 21st century. I am therefore going to focus, as I said in my first speech, on what I believe we can do and what we are doing from the Basque Government. And I believe that your group can contribute a lot to this debate that we will have in the coming weeks and that it has to do with everything that is part of the competence of the Basque Government and that it is not in this new socio-occupational regulation or in a new framework of Basque labour relations, but it is expressly the fight against the precariousness contained in that strategy and expressly the quality employment as the axis of that strategy. I also believe that there may be little more novel than the extension of rights for workers. And that is why in Euskadi we want to take a step forward, look ahead to the challenges that come to us in the future and not put patches, and constitute new rights for Basque citizens. And we fully share the demand for a just exit from the crisis, of course, without leaving anyone behind. And that is also reflected in the programme of this Basque Government for this legislature. We share the need to promote inclusive and equal quality employment. It seems very important to me, because of each of these definitions a lot of public policy actions can be made for the benefit of workers. We do not agree with the approach that some union did on that May 1st with regard to the general strike, because that – I also want to be honest in this rostrum – can serve as a relief, as a right, it is true that it is there, but as a way out at the moment I think it provides little. What your group does have at its disposal is this new strategy which seeks to find a pact to govern those who rule in the next 10 years, so that we have a fixed direction in the field of employment. And this, of course, appeals to those in the Government, but also to all those in the seats of this House and also to the social actors who have at their disposal a valuable instrument which is collective bargaining. I think it's the best instrument in history to win labour rights. You quoted this May Day as a reference. I belong to the political organization that celebrated the first May First 131 years ago in the Basque streets. That is why I know very well how the working conditions and, at the same time, the productivity of our companies have been improving. That is why, because I know it well, and I think that is how best we have progressed, I appeal again to negotiation and agreement to tackle all the problems we have. And I call on the social partners to use the opportunity they have at the social dialogue table here in Euskadi to seek those consensuses, those dialogues and those agreements necessary to further advance for the benefit of women workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Jon Hernandez Hidalgo together with the parliamentary members of the Podemos-Ituerda Unida, the second vice president, and the Chief of Staff and Empedugus, as to the works of Petrronor. " Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u49	Yes, thank you. Mrs. Vicefirstdaari. Petronor, Repsol's subsidiary, as you know, one of the most powerful corporations in the world, with millions of euros of profits today, has been putting in place and putting forward a series of harmful measures for the rights of workers at your plant, here in Bizkaia, in recent times. Among these measures, some are already assuming de facto Therefore, we are once again, in our view, facing a large company with significant profits, which it does not care to pass over everything to increase profits and to precarious working conditions, it does not matter to pass over even the very agreements that the company signed with the workers just a year ago. We believe that governments have an obligation, not only in protecting employment, in protecting working conditions, but also in supporting workers against decisions that we find absolutely abusive. That is why we want to ask you what you are doing, what your Government is going to do on this issue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u50	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. To answer, Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u51	Yes, thank you. For the Department of Labour and Employment, as you well know, has the doors open to Basque workers and companies and is in permanent contact with absolutely all the companies in conflict. And this department, like the Ministry of Labour, is offered for mediation in the terms provided for by the law that you well know, that is, only in cases where the two parties involved so ask the Government. At the moment we have not received any proposals from any of us, and what is left to us is to trust that collective bargaining in this case can be the best way out of the situation in which this particular undertaking passes, which you are bringing to Parliament today, or any other. And you asked what we are doing specifically. Well, we are complying with the royal decree that regulates precisely these procedures of collective dismissal and suspension of contracts. On 7 April Petronor presented the file, on 29 April we were informed that the consultation period had ended without agreement and with changes in the date of effects and the intensity of the suspension of contracts. At that time, the Labour Inspectorate produced the relevant report and, in addition, we have, as always, made ourselves available to the parties, which is our obligation, to reach agreement on the best solution to the difficulties the company is going through. In the absence of proposals in this regard, we, as his partner commented, bet on collective bargaining as the best tool to solve and reach agreements between employers, in this case between Petronor, and his workers, the representation of workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Mr. Hernandez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u53	Mrs Mendia, appealing to collective bargaining is very good, we do it by all political forces and, of course, we do it by the political forces of the left, but, of course, in this case, as in many others, we believe that the government must ask for more than appealing to collective bargaining for a very specific reason, because the company is failing to comply with agreements resulting from collective bargaining just a year ago. There is a breach of these agreements, which destroys employment, which violates training issues, which also involves the department, Lanbide itself, which is somehow involved in the training which was agreed by the company and the workers and which the company has failed, is failing, and which is going to leave in the street the people who have been part of that training in which Lanbide has been involved. Therefore, negotiation, as you know, has to be done in good faith, not because I say it, but because the law itself says it. It is clear that in this case there has been no good faith on the part of the company, and sometimes we have to position ourselves on one side or the other, not for things to be black and white, but because sometimes it is necessary, because one of the parties does not act in good faith, and we are seeing it in a multitude of large companies, and we are seeing that Petronor is no exception. I do not bring this company to this Parliament today, as you say, by the workers who appear out there or by their committee who is here with us, it is they who ask us to act more effectively and to stand on the side of the workers when the companies abuse. For me it's easy, the workers have brought me a T-shirt and I haven't worn it, because for me in the opposition it's easy, what the workers need in this kind of performance is that the governments put on with the workers, because again it's an abuse. Companies with billions of euros of profit what they are proposing is a strategy to precarious employment, to destroy jobs, because they want to go over everything, because all they care about is their millionaire profits, in a company, in addition, with spectacular rotating doors with the world of politics in Euskadi. The Government can therefore go much further and act.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u54	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u55	Mr Hernandez, you know very well the labour relations and you know perfectly well what can and cannot be done. And we are doing, truly, the same as the Ministry of Labour with the ERTE presented by Repsol for the plants of Puerto Llano and La Coruña, the same. Now, if you ask me what this department is doing, in addition to what I have already said today, you know very well at first hand, as I have also pointed out to Mrs Garcia, who we are developing, deploying the Basque Employment Strategy and, therefore, I believe that later on, you know it, the Ministry of Labour itself has also approved an employment strategy perfectly aligned with ours, and you also know the forum of the Social Dialogue Table where it is addressing how to strengthen the protection of workers, which is the forum where it should be done, and you also know what we can do at the Social Dialogue Table in Euskadi, unless we are asked for mediation, as I pointed out in my first intervention. We train people working in companies in crisis and also agree on public policies related to the training of workers, with equality in companies, in the end, that the institutional stake must be to use the tools at our disposal, and one of them is the social dialogue table and the other collective bargaining, which, as I pointed out, is the best tool for defending the rights of Basque workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. 9th point on the subject list: "Interression, by Josu Estarrona Elizdo EH Collectors to the Chief of Public Government and Autobernus to make sure the public business is in order to make sure about my plans for you." Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u57	Good morning, everyone. In order, Mrs. Garatum, to make the superiors and highly trusted men of society and organisms act properly, so that they may behave in a manner which is yours in the last instance; or at least it is your duty to make means for the proper conduct, to make measures, and to make decisions. And see if we can explain some things today. The other day, I asked you in a low voice about the round doors of the Osarides, and you told me that in your answer the law clearly defines the conditions of public employment for private purposes. The law itself defines what is right and what is not. The technical reports that have been recorded on the expedition confirm that both the one and the other follow the conditions prescribed by the legislation. We don't ask the Act of Ethics whether the Government offices fulfill the Law or not examine the law and solve it. For this purpose there are other contrivances and organs, in fun itself, where there are judicial organs, and so many inquisitions and authority. We wish to examine, or not to estimate, whether several actions or actions, which exist even in the law, are proper and ethical, and to conclude them, in this way, for the sake of the general interest of correcting them. And that's important to understand and make it clear. It is very important to understand and understand that this has to be the case, because more worrying or serious than the malfunction or inoperativeness of the commission – year and a half was out of operation, without consultation, in a year when there has been a change of government and there have been new appointments of government staff, without memories of recent years –, more worrying or serious than that inoperativeness or inactivity or malfunction are the characteristics and meaning of the 69 opinions issued to date. These opinions are devoted to building exculpatory theses, in order not to recognize the wrong course of most consultations, complaints or complaints. Some kind of alibi commission. And the last example was to be seen in the conduct of former medical offices. They left dimit or office and soon began to work in a private health company. This company has been working with medical centres for years, directly or participated in other companies, and the Medical Department has signed contract with them for years, as I said then, and it's possible that we're in the future. Just after we got off the top, I'd like to hear it from you, and they went to that private company. If this has an influence upon public opinion, politics, institutions, and, in this particular case, Osacism. And here's an example. Revolving doors. Is the spinning doors legal? Is that legal? Yes, it's a phenomenon that happens inside the law that's the roundest door? Yes, there are some, some way, but they're legalized by a permission. Is it ethical? No. We think that's unethical. So, the difference between legal and ethical. The Ethics gave way to allow the spinning doors, and then sought means and excuses to justify them. Swivel book doors. And it is not because Euskal Herria Bildu says so, but the international bodies, among them one of the most referent, Transparency International in its definition, of book. And the Etica Committee has now in their hands a consultation made by the Chief of the Casual Committee for the VIP vaccines or irregular inoculations, for the resolution, sinee, for the decision. Because it is an ethical commission that consists of five people, three of whom are directly members of the government and positions of trust, far from European standards for this type of oversight or audit and control body. And we all thought that another consultation was in hand by the Committee of Ethics: It's the hard contract between Montai and Montai. And I'll explain later, "Did we"? Estali La Karpa, from the Montai group, was born four days before the inauguration of the Institute of Memory, Gogora. Four days earlier. And in a few months he received awards from there and several local institutions for the organization of the Plaza de la Memoria. 59% of the contracts of the Basque Presidency of Lehendakaritza for the Gogora exhibition fell directly to Estali four days before it began. In particular, the Institute of Memory, a body that was then dependent on Lehendakaritza, not today, hired on 28 occasions the Montai group, made up of four companies of a prominent party activist, public office and candidate, and in which they also work other active positions of the party. And the auctions, we're not talking about minute sin. Contracts and Contracts were made within the law, or in the margins of the Lawes; because they were made around a Mater, composed of divers Institutions, and Compliments, to the execution of the Law; but the execution of the Law, I say, does not mean that the manner of action is suitable, or that these Contracts are proper; and that they are good names of Administration, and Government, to be ethical. And then the director of the Institute told us that he had consulted all the parliamentary teams, directly, and the President of the New Year's New Year's Office, too Mr. Erkoa, said so too. And it's all in the hemeratka. New The Basque Government analyses the contracts of Gogora, the company of a PNV office. "The spokesman of the government of Iñigo Urkullu revealed yesterday that the director of Gogora Antzane Ezenarro recorded Edo Deian ikus dezakegu: "Consult on Gogora's hirings. The Institute of Memory requests the Ethics Commission to analyse 28 Montai Group awards." I think it became clear that this idea had been expressed at that time. But we have now learned, by the reply to our written questions, that the directors of the Institute and the Ercorek had been consulted or understood, but it did not seem to have been an informal consultation. That's a bit troubling us, too. How do you do informal consultations at the Etica Board? A cup of coffee? A cane? WhatsApp? "Cómo se hacen consultas informes a la Comision Ética, señora Garastum?" "Tocommand un café, un pot?" You're in the middle of an informal por WhatsApp, a ver si mi actuacion ha sido ética o no? On the other hand, when you ask me about the spinning doors of the Osapans, your first words are recorded in transscription, "I really believe that these matters must be applied by serious seriousness and objectiveness and by applying the rules that is made up of them." Is he serious about an informal consultation in front of a case like this? How do you do that? Can you explain how informal consultations are performed? It's the hour of aurkezpen-karta. This is the letter of presentation at the moment of the Basque Government's Ethics Commission, according to the Code of Ethics and Good Practice, an exculpatory commission, an alibi commission, a purely aesthetic commission. Year and a half without functioning, without consultations in a year of change of government, as I have already told you, without memories of recent years, opinions that are dedicated to building exculpatory theses. That's why, Mrs Garagis, we're asking you to see if it's a failure or what it's good for, what it's like to be able to make sure about public jobs from now on, or if you're going to change things in the correct direction you're going to.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u58	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. To answer, Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, Mr. Estarrona, good morning. Mr. Estarrona, before I enter into the phactical arguments, I am willing to give up a loud assertion that you maintain this interpelation. Not the Public Relations Committee, not even the Etiquettes and the Code of the Good Government, haven't failed, not even the least. This can only be inferred from a partial and thoroughly interested account of the event. But it can't be like that even if you look at reality. Not without turning back to the truth. For both of them are filling their ends with seriousness and severity. Let me refute or explain the statements which you have made to the thread of this interpelation here, and which you have written for weeks and months before. I will also answer you with certain information and information, even though you have known these things before. His questioning is based on a false premise. I will try to make you see that this statement has no basis, even at the risk of not achieving it, because, as Einstein said, it is easier to disintegrate an atom than a prejudice. It begins by referring to the matter that several discharges from the Department of Health, once they left the Government, began to serve in the private enterprise. This matter was already the subject of a parliamentary question in which I offered a full answer. Furthermore, as you are well aware, this issue has already been decided by the Committee on Public Ethics, and its opinion is available on the committee's website as case 1/2021. That opinion, and more specifically paragraphs 13 to 16, clearly reflects the limits of the Committee on Public Ethics. At the same time, it is recalled that there is a compatibility procedure which every public office must follow in order to be able to carry out work in the private enterprise, which extends up to two years after the end of public responsibility. All this finds its basis, Mr Estarrona, in Law 1/2014, which regulates the code of conduct and conflicts of interest of senior officials. It is a law passed by this Parliament that leads us to have a specific scope for the Committee on Public Ethics and to have a different approach to compatibility. It is a law of this Parliament that you are totally oblivious to in carrying out your reflections, as if it did not exist, as if it were the same as this rule would dictate. On the other hand, you mention in interpelation that the Public Ethics Committee has to give his opinion about a consultation made by the head physician of the Medical Department. As you know, though I can't give you any sensible information about the matter in the committee, I can assure you that we are considering everything in our hands deeply and sharply. Be sure that in his time we will publish the final resolution, don't hesitate at all. For, though you mean quite otherwise with your words and your thoughts, the committee is a member of a multitude of members, a member of the community, a member of the community, a member of the community, and has a constitution to guarantee: The Chief of Public and Auto-electric Governments, I myself, the Assistant Chief of Public Functions, the Secretary of Christmas, has no right to vote. One of them is an international Private Law and an ex-preservative magistrate of the Constitution and an ex-UNED rector. The other, the former professor of philosophy, Ethics, and Deonthology, in the sphere of deontic logic and the applied ethics of ethics, an interesting study of the biotics and the ethics of communication. As you see, therefore, the objectivity and rigour of the committee, of the work of the committee, are unquestionable. The absolute guarantee that what is dictated is not the sole will of this Government's adviser, but the result of a thorough, professional and committed analysis of good practice in the management of the public. This is the case, Mr Estarrona, with two members of the Government and two external experts, plus another position of the Government acting as secretary without the right to vote. As can therefore be seen, a collegiate and equal body in its decision-making component. You mentioned the subject of high school as well. I answered a question that you'd written before. I'll take it from the same nail this time. In fact, I answered you the same thing that I wrote you in less than a week ago. According to the interpretation of the board, not as complaints, consultations, or accusations, but as information, which was sent in the future, in order to make its contents act as important for the committee. Finally, he mentions the absence of memories in recent years. And here I must give you reason, for there has indeed been a delay. However, I do not want to extend myself in excuses, and I have already announced to you that these memoirs are almost finished, and that after their translation and modeling will be conveniently published. He has no doubt that this Government is absolutely committed to the ethics and the rigour and exemplary conduct of all its public offices. In recent years, for example, up to nine different training days have been held through the VATP for public ethics posts, through which a list of authorities has passed. These days have dealt with issues of great importance, such as the challenge of good government and the right to good administration, or institutional integrity for public positions, management and civil servants. This Government trains those who hold public office, disseminating and implementing the values, principles and behaviors contained in the pioneering Code of Ethics and Conduct that we sign and share public office. In this context, the Group of States against Corruption of the Council of Europe-Greece was received by the lehendakari last year, without going further, and gave a presentation on the integrity of the public sector. The fifth evaluation of this group on the prevention of corruption and the promotion of integrity in central governments and security forces and bodies places Euskadi as a model in this area. The report referred to both the Code of Ethics and Conduct and the Public Ethics Commission. He described them as particularly innovative at the time they were launched, and added that this was a good practice that could serve as inspiration. The European Quality of Government Index itself The very regulation of the Code of Ethics and Conduct already provides for strict control mechanisms for public officials and officials in the event that the violation or insufficient compliance with the ethical and conduct standards provided for in the Code of Ethics is authentically accredited, and also when the facts that have been established may constitute an offence or administrative offence. This is not what you are now politically entitled to be the Committee on Public Ethics. It is about doing rigorous work, ensuring integrity and exemplaryness, but also subject to clear and precise rules to avoid arbitrary decisions and, at the same time, why not, to provide a clear framework for our public offices to be able to best develop their work and vocation of public service. That's why we're here. As you see, Mr Estarrona, all this leads me to insist on the iron defense of an exemplary and functioning system. Can it be improved? Probably. Everything has a margin for improvement. But weak favor does to institutional integrity, if that is really their goal, questioning the work of a peer and collegiate body, with experts and independents of an unquestionable trajectory. A clear, well-defined specimen, which foresees strict control mechanism, and which lies in the shelter of a law which this legislature has fully approved. They all form a model system that works. But you can't help integruity and honesty when you've tried to compromise his practice without solid foundations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. Mr. Estarrona, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u61	Thank you. I am glad that you have the speed or the ability to read the reports so quickly and in detail. You have denied me the greatest when you tell me that the Ethics Committee has not done so. It's just that, casually, you've now had to renew yourself for the renewal of the government, but casually, and this is random, of the two independent experts that you've casually mentioned in the previous one, look, one of them was not a person close to the party, but was head of the list. Top of the list in the party brand in Nafarroa. Listed head, and I respect him very much, and I read and learn a lot from him, huh? An absolute respect for your person. But of the two independents in that joint body one was top of the list in some elections. So, well, if we cheat on the lonely, we cheat on them. And you refer to the European institutions and to the reports and to what you have said about the Ethics Committee and the Code of Ethics and good governance, and so on, of course, as you say. Hand them my phone and we'll talk. And we meet with them together and ask them the things that are there. Because in this country and in this government, there are exactly three oversight and audit bodies. One, the Basque Court of Public Accounts, with Mr Bilbao at the head. We know, even if he's not going to write his memoirs, what he knows. We have the Office of Economic Control, whose deputy director, Mr Losa, has been a member of Araba Buru Batzar, nothing more and nothing less. That gentleman is the one who says fitness and such. And then we have the president of the Ethics Commission, who is you, part of the government too. As I say, on the issue of parity and the independence of the supervisory and audit bodies, this Government leaves much, much, much to be desired. But, landing a little again, they are not prejudices, they are not prejudices, Mrs Garamendi, they are facts. Memories: You have acknowledged the delay. Man, four years, delay... absolute inoperability. That's no longer a delay, four years without memories. And the secretary there with no voice and no vote. Okay. How many times have any of the 69 opinions been put to the vote? How many? And after the makeup of some rotating book doors, it has on the table at least another matter to settle, and that even yesterday the groups that support the government tried to hide under the carpet using their parliamentary majority. But they were left alone before the opposition. Because a government can figure out or not, handle problems. This may be intelligible and acceptable to us, but it is not acceptable, it is intolerable to lie, and it is even more unacceptable to use the majority to cover these lies as it happened here yesterday. Eta batzorde etiko independent bat edo bestelako organismen bat izango bagenu, agian, Gobernu honori belarritik tiratzeko eta portaera edo jarrera batzuk aldatzeko balioko luke. But, on the basis of the precedents, we already know, as I said in the first intervention, in which direction the Ethics Committee's opinion on irregular inoculations and vaccinations will also go. It's that we have no doubt, it's that you can save it, because it's to exculpate any kind of responsibility. They will again dedicate themselves to making up actions of dubious honesty, of dubious ethics, as they have done to date, and even before public evidence, public evidence, because the facts are there. But there is Mr Erkoreka, whom comrade Arzuaga has just questioned. No, not during, not before, not after there was a relationship. And then, the next day, it is clearly seen in a video that there was, and that also in parliamentary office Mr Erkoreka did not tell the truth, did not tell the truth. And not telling the truth, or not recognizing things, is not an attitude neither correct nor ethical. And not having a proactive attitude so that you don't give yourself these kinds of attitudes, for us at least, is not consumable. Eta, gure ustez, puntu honorara helduta, bi aukera dituzue: edo behera behera uztea batzordea eta, adibidez, jarduera egokien bolego baten alde egin, Europako hainbat lekutan bezala; edo gutxiane Etika Batzordea deitzen horri zuzenean Estetika Batzordea Aitzakien Batzordea We'll continue to bring in the facts and proposals as we have done now. We're going to request all the documentation of the contract between Montai and the hard, and, if necessary, we'll consult the Act of Ethics directly. This same week, a public contractal sign from the north of Lent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u62	Thank you, Mr. Estarrona. Mrs. Garast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u63	Mr. Estarrona, I didn't expect any less from you. Yeah, you're irrigating the mediatic noise again. I'm sorry you're not really interested in a serious, calm, productive discussion. On the contrary, you wish to compromise the Committee of Ethics, which proceeds from the thread of a Piedmontese law, and acts with professionality, independence, and severity. I'm not going to enter the bottom of all the things you're talking about. As a member of the Public Committee, I confirm what the criteria say, which are unanimously approved. And as I have already told you, I must keep secret from the commission. Therefore, in an exercise of responsibility, in this second turn, I am obliged to refuse firmly the assertions you have made in your interpretation. If you wish to doubt the work of the Committee, and the purpose and need of the Act of Ethics and Manners, which are derived from the will of the majority of this legislature. When such expressions as you make are made, those which are said must be supported in definite and conflicting facts. Not with expressions that make it a mess. It is precisely the opposite of what we the members of the Public Committee do: use specific facts, contract them, give them a decided and cultivated criterion, if it can. It's a clean, straight job. This is a model for your approval too. Six years ago, only six years ago, the parliament admitted the Code of Public Offices with an immense degree of conformity with the active intervention of the 1/2014 law which regulates the conflict of interest. On our side, the letter and the spirit which this law introduces are filled with doubt. Then, in 2014, this Parliament established a framework and rules of play that gave rise to a very broad level of consensus that the formation to which it belongs was participative. And it is not that this adviser says it, but that the spokesperson of her political group at the time, Mrs Mintegi, highlighted it with statements, and I quote literally: "As has been seen, when the objectives are shared it is possible to reach a high level of agreement, we proposed a culture of dialogue and respect for others, which has been integrated into the text". High level of agreement and shared goals, respect for others. What has changed, Mr. Estarrona? The only thing that has changed, seems to be, is his particular perception. Ez dituzu Etika Batzordeak emaniko irizpideak gustuko? Hori beaste kontu bat da, agian zuk dituzun spectatibak bete ez direlako. I repeat, this pattern works, and it is a pattern also looking out. I have not heard you say that the validity and necessity of these instruments are doubted, or that they have a strong argument. Only that you disagree with the decisions you've made. I, for my part, have the value of the ethical code and the commission. I'll always tell you that the Public Committee is a paritary organ, multiple members. The resolutions published, however signed by me, are the fruit of profound deliberation and agreement. It's not a political organ. Serious experts participate in the decisions. I firmly believe in public service. And in this regard, from my responsibility as chair of the Ethics Commission, I would like to take up one of the paragraphs in the explanatory statement of the law, which largely reflects her spirit. It says: "The purpose of the law is thus the satisfaction of an ethical duty by those who exercise these public functions and, also, of a social duty, because it seeks to preserve the legitimate trust that society places in those who manage the common interest, as well as the transparency of their actions in political life." This issue should be above political confrontation. It cannot become a bold weapon against our political adversary. We are talking about an ethical soil widely supported by this House. A firm ground on which we lay the exemplary and integrity that govern our public service work. It is not just the present, it is a guarantee of the future, of a way of doing politics, understood as giving and serving citizenship, which we want to leave firmly settled for the next generations. We played a lot. Let's not play with it. You said you're gonna contribute. Always ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Garast. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interregation, made by the American parliamentary team of the Carmelo Barrio Barroja Rascals, Ciudadans, made to the head of Economism and Environmental Division on the negotiation of future trading policy." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u65	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. On the eve of San Isidro, the patron saint of farmers, of the people of the countryside, let's talk a little about agriculture, mainly about agricultural policy. We have been putting forward some initiatives at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year. And we have presented these initiatives for the sake of a very important issue that is fundamental for the Spanish economy, also for the Basque economy, which is the future CAP, the common agricultural policy, and its renewal. The answers in November were quite worrying. In March, too, some issues were raised and we were able to see some keys to the Basque position in the negotiations on the new CAP. The common agricultural policy, in particular the post-2020 CAP, its management and development, is what we want to talk about. It affects the policies of this government and also the policies of the historical territories because of their competence in agriculture, which are very relevant, as you all know. In that regard, what I would like in this inquiry is information from Mrs Tapia. It is not an inquiry prepared for discussion or debate, it is to know the Basque position, that of your department, and also, as far as possible, that of the outlaws, because – since they are not a party in that sense – you will have to represent them in the end. I assume that you, as my group, are committed to a CAP that guarantees food safety and autonomy and that basically also helps those new challenges of stability, modernisation, progress in the Spanish and Basque agri-food sector, the stability of our farmers and producers and the new challenges in relation to biodiversity, the environment and the food chain that are on the table. It is also very interesting in all this to follow the publications of Basque professional organizations, including those of Enba, for example, which reflect the interest of this sector and the dependence on what can happen, which has to do with the importance of this future CAP. Its importance as an essential instrument in European economic policy and its citizen, regional dimension, and its social, rural, food and so on. That is the basic and key element. That is why it is so important that we can also fix ourselves and stop for a moment in those circumstances, because it is going to be an essential issue. Not only talking about the funds that will come, but how to organize a new policy when it definitely goes into operation, which is expected to be in 2023. But, in any case, there will be a transitional period that affects us at this time. 2021 has, as it were, been, after the last decisions of 2020, a year of implementation of the important. First half of the year, adoption of the regulations of the future CAP. Second semester, the adjustments of Spain, of the ministry, I understand that in collaboration with the autonomous communities, to which I will refer in a moment, because the ministry says so. And in 2022 approval, for implementation in 2023. In other words, what is important now is the strategic plan to be presented by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food at the end of this year. When we go to the ministry document, to the document called A response from Spain for the post 2020 CAP He talks three times about the autonomous communities. In a first key, when he says that the strategic plan to be drafted by the ministry is a new instrument proposed by the commission to implement the CAP in each country, we understand, and that says the ministry, that the strategic plan must be drawn up in accordance with the constitutional division of competences between our country and the autonomous communities. In the case of the Autonomous Communities there are many competences in relation to these issues, and in ours in a much more unique way. It states that "Spain defends the existence of a national strategic plan whose elaboration must play a key role in the autonomous communities, both in terms of the interventions of the first pillar and essentially in the interventions of the second pillar". I want to say that the consolidation of the two pillars of the CAP are the following: the first pillar, which finances direct aid and market measures entirely from the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund, the EAGGF; and the second pillar, in favour of the Rural Fund under the co-financing scheme. That is, two important pillars where the autonomous communities seem to have something to say. But then in practice it seems that only the second pillar is mentioned. Well, you can define it for us, because you're in negotiation; what I'm saying is more theoretical. The Strategic Plan also states that the second phase, in which it speaks of the autonomous communities, "must be an opportunity to improve synergies between the measures of the first and second pillars in order to achieve the common objectives of the CAP and to be designed by the autonomous communities, as they are the best connoisseurs of the reality and needs of their territories". That also says, that is, that it has to be part of the strategic plan. And the third one says that "the governance model of the strategic plan must incorporate the authorities of the autonomous communities responsible for management...", that is, you, "...while ensuring the necessary coordination at the national level". He says many more things about subsidiarity, etc. But, well, I said the basics. Moreover, that is why this inquiry, the role of the autonomous communities is essential and is going to be essential for our future. That is to say, it is a new CAP with great challenges: environmental strategy, no doubt; workers and working conditions, we have also seen how there is a greater concern about these conditions of rural workers; biodiversity; the food chain. That is, great challenges, but also, in principle, less budget. That is, more obligations and less aid, in principle, as a prior criticism until the definition is what it is going to be. But at the moment we have to think that more needs to be done with less budget, and that is certainly a matter of concern to my group and to the organizations we represent. These issues cause us also to be concerned about the Spanish strategic plan in relation to that dimension and that negotiation with the autonomous communities as something essential. That's why time goes by really fast. Moreover, in the preparation of this new CAP there seems to have been time, but it is happening very quickly. The three Community institutions, the Council, Parliament and the Commission, gave a definitive impetus last March to the negotiation of the future common agricultural policy at a three-band meeting to speed up positions with a view to an agreement by June, after what was already decided in October 2020. The trialogues were established by 16 April, by 21 April, in relation to the different regulations by 23 April. Since the talks began on 10 November, 17 trialogues and numerous technical and preparatory meetings have been held. Therefore, our position and our concern is to know – in view of the fact that the Spanish Government is preparing this strategic plan for the CAP in collaboration with the autonomous communities, the European Union and other ministries – the request to the adviser is to know what are the purposes of her department in the current phase of elaboration and programming process of the strategic plan of the CAP prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. What is currently, or today, in the final phase of the first half of the year, the position we have to give, what we have done and what we can do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u66	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day to all of you departmental chiefs and congressmen. Mr Barrio, you have referred to several aspects, but you are going to allow me to make a review of how the process is going. As you said, the common agricultural policy, the new CAP, will not be operational until 2023. We are now in a period of transition and it is still incomplete, in part, because the European institutions have not yet completed all the aspects that need to be taken forward within these trilogues. The next one will be held between 25 and 27 May at the same time as the Council of Ministers for Agriculture and Fisheries. And it is very likely that there will be a final agreement on the future CAP. What aspects are still unresolved and which are presumably to be dealt with? In principle, all that is green architecture, as well as other topics that have already been profiled in different proposals, but that need to be defined in an exact way, such as the distribution of aid, for example, in what means the ceiling of aid that each holding can have, the redistributive payment, the single CMO. There are still elements that are not fully defined, uncertain in a certain way, but that we consider that by June they can be defined. In recent months, there have been numerous meetings, numerous revisions and progress in certain areas that can be shaped by the new CAP. What has been our process of participation, the process of participation of the Autonomous Communities? A participatory process was already launched in 2020 – as is usually the case when drafting each of the new CAPs – and this procedure is still open at this time. It is carried out at two levels: one more technical, where both the technical and the directors-general are working, and another that is addressed within the Sectoral Conference by the advisers and advisers with the minister himself. On 23 July 2020 and 10 December 2020, the last two sectoral conferences of these characteristics were held, which I attended, as it could not otherwise have been, and where we set out the criteria of the Basque Government, which had previously been agreed, as you said, with the outlaws who also have competence in this case and with the corresponding sectoral associations. In a more technical area, the high-level technical groups that are meeting on a permanent basis, both with regard to the first pillar and the second pillar, are working on the whole subject of the strategic plan to which you referred. Different types of meetings are taking place, they are usually telematics right now, starting in September 2020, and our technicians, our directors and directors are participating in each and every one of them. It should be noted that in this case what refers to the second pillar is a bit special in the case of Euskadi, since that co-financing to which you referred in this case does not come from the ministry, but comes from the Basque Government's own resources. Therefore, there we have a somewhat special treatment and, therefore, we consider, and I believe that we have achieved it, since it is exposed there, as you said, that within that strategic plan which can be common and to which we do not refuse to consider the specificities of each autonomous community, and more in our case, since we co-finance our programmes. In addition, bilateral meetings are being held by the ministry with each and every one of the autonomous communities. We had a meeting at the end of April, where we set out our positions once again, where precisely the needs of each of the autonomous communities, which are different, were found, and where we share with the ministry the need for these aspects to be covered. We hope that the ministry will collect the needs of all the autonomous communities and make us a proposal, a proposal in writing setting out the CAP that will be made from the Spanish state as a proposal, which will collect fundamental aspects such as that of genuine farmer All this does not yet exist, there is no such document, but according to information from the ministry we will have a meeting – we hope that in the first half of June – where all this information is already available and we can hold a sectoral conference meeting and already work on that document in which everyone has explained their reasoning and needs. What we have asked the ministry to do is to make a reference to that document in advance, to enable us to analyze it and to collect the fundamental aspects that we have been exposing. There are still, he said, many aspects that need to be clarified, and we do not know exactly what these rules are going to be and we are focused on working in the various areas that are of interest to our farmers, our farmers and our livestock. Our aim, of course, is not to lose weight on all that aspect of aid, on the economic side, and our main bet will be commented on at this time, it is reflected in the following lines. In the area of the first pillar, a regionalisation to use based on types of cultivation, as we have at the moment, clearly harms the Basque agricultural sector, and what we are asking at the moment is that we consider a regional productive and agronomic area that does not harm our agricultural sector and that is specifically considered beyond the production or interests that were being defended at this time, the types of cultivation. Secondly, coupled payments. We have called for the consolidation in the new CAP of the system of coupled payments to the most strategic subsectors in Euskadi, which are milk cows, beef cows, milk sheep and beet, to be considered in a special way, so that all our agricultural and livestock sector associated with these areas will have the consideration it has had so far. These subsectors are very dependent on these coupled payments and we cannot make them disappear without making the sector disappear. We therefore need to maintain the current volume of aid. As for the second pillar, I told him, in the distribution among the autonomous communities there are always resources left in other communities, since they do not have the resources to co-finance them. In our case, the exact opposite is true, since we are able to co-finance with our own resources, and even if the aid from the EAFRD is determined, as happened to us in 2020, and we are able to establish aid from our own resources, what we are asking for is that we can implement a greater number of funds and that there is a mechanism that allows us to articulate those surpluses that occur elsewhere, and I believe that it will be attended to by the ministry, because it also considers that we must implement all the funds from Europe and that nothing remains to be done. There is no doubt that this increase in funds would give an economic dimension to the second pillar, where there really are those policies that we have to develop also from the outside parliaments, where the agricultural sector, the food sector, the Basque forest, of course, have a lot to say, and they would be directly benefited. We are also working on very specific aspects. In the first pillar, with the definition of the genuine farmer, we told him, in our cases we asked for the exclusion of passive farmers whose percentage of agricultural income other than direct payments is less than 30% of total agricultural income, that is, we defend a genuine farmer. The current maintenance of coupled payments, as previously stated, the start-up of redistributive aid on small farms, the application of capping These have basically and very briefly been the approaches made to the ministry and which, as I said, are also being agreed with the outlaws. Perhaps in the second round I can complete a little more of these aspects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u69	Thank you very much, President. Yes, thank you, Mrs Tapia, Counsellor, for the explanations. Indeed, you have told us that you have provided your opinion and your approaches. But it is clear that they also do not know very well the fundamental lines of the strategic plan. I mean, my concern is that we're very close. The dimension we are talking about is very close. And then a tight negotiation there in a few months on this subject can be complicated. And for that very reason, that is what worries me a little, that delay that the Spanish Government can bring about in relation to this issue. In that connection, I was also concerned when, on 30 November, we asked the honourable Member a question about the agreement on the reform of the common agricultural policy and you answered us in a very clear way. We asked him whether he shared the position of the Government of Spain in the aforementioned negotiations, and he gave us a negative answer. It is a denial that we cannot share with the Spanish Government our position on the reform approach, since in the negotiations between the various groups, both in the Commission and in the Council, the values that you have also put on the table have not been defended at any time. Nor do we share the position of enabling within a state strategic plan only the regionalisation of the second pillar of the CAP, which was what I have commented to you before. He said that the Government of Spain understood that, in this regard, it did not comply with article 91 of the Regulations on the Basis of Strategic Plans, since it could not be designed and drawn up in accordance with the constitutional provisions. It is a matter of concern, I say again that it was a reply of 30 November. And, in that sense, it seems that some steps have been taken. But he was also telling us, in that sense, that no joint position had been agreed between the Autonomous Communities and the Government of Spain... It was soon, surely, telling us not to date. But we have seen that there are at least some contacts with regard to sectoral conferences. We have a little the impression of delay on this fundamental issue and so we have perceived it, not only in this autonomous community. Others have said that there seems to be a provision with the handbrake cast in relation to the autonomous communities, and that this leadership by the ministry on these issues should give a little more room for play to the autonomous communities. We are talking about things that are essentially the competence of the communities. And in that sense, there are the keys. I do not know whether the question I referred to before the CAP's smaller budget for the coming years is something that concerns them too, because I think it is a fundamental element. Professional organisations are already on this issue, because carrying out all those implemented policies that are going to be required in the new CAP, if the resources are not higher, will be very complicated to do so. But it is clear that the issue is that we must commit funds to a greater extent for the period 21-27, always above those for the period 14-20. Rigor and transparency must be applied in the design of the future model of the national strategic plan. That is an important issue and, for the moment, we are not seeing it. Because you could be on the table, and professional organizations also see that there are things they still don't know where they're going. Defining, as you have said, the concept of a genuine farmer, linked to production and activity, is also very important in relation to the empowerment and development of this figure. In addition, there are basic issues such as compatibility of access to other funds to enable the sector to access funds from the National Reconstruction and Resilience Programme, within the European Union's Next Generation, and to those European funds from the multiannual financial framework. That too must be cleared, because it is a very important issue. And many other issues, such as helping co-operativeism as one of the best mechanisms to optimize some production costs on some farms, boosting food agricultural training, promoting food research, ensuring the stability of farmers' and farmers' incomes, ensuring the future of all agents of the food system... I mean, there are a lot of issues. And some of these are going to have to be solved or the same have to be solved, but they are not transferred to the autonomous communities at this point. That is an issue which my group is concerned about and which I hope will be resolved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u70	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u71	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Barrio, as you said, in November we still did not know how this whole dialogue was going to develop. I believe that we have made progress, and in some respects we have improved the situation. But, as I said, we still do not have a document that we can, in theory, work on that first half of June. And that is why we have asked the ministry, before that meeting, of course, to have a document that reflects our aspirations. In addition, there are some approaches, which I have mentioned previously, which we have defended together with the autonomous communities of the Cantabrian region. That is to say, Galicia, Asturias, Cantabria and Euskadi have shared some relevant axes of action that have been taken to the Ministry and, moreover, the Ministry has considered them positively. Well, let's see what's gathered from everything we're being told in those conversations and in those areas of work in the final document, which, I insist, we don't have yet. It is no less true, and here I have to give you the reason, I was telling you in November and I can tell you again today, it is true that from the European Union a single strategic plan per state is established in the preparation, in the regulation of how to develop the new CAP. In other words, the Europe of the regions has disappeared and, therefore, as in the previous CAP, we cannot consider sending a regional strategic plan. In other words, it has been centralized from the European Union itself. There must be a single strategic plan per state. Defined thus, what we are, of course, working in the autonomous communities all this time is that it is considered within the single strategic plan, the state strategic plan, the particularity of each and the possibility of adapting some of these tools to our reality. I think it is of particular relevance, because we are losing capacity there, and the European Union itself has lost capacity in its approach. That's right. It is irrevocable at this time, as are the resources that have been allocated. It is a final debate, the resources allocated to the CAP are those which are, are minor, as you said. But we hope that, by clearly defining figures as the genuine farmer, by clearly defining the actions and our capacity to execute resources throughout the previous programming period, we will be able to equip ourselves in Euskadi with at least the same resources that we have had throughout the period that will reach the end of 2022. Therefore, we still have a lot to work on, we have to work with the sector as we are doing and with the outside parliaments to make it possible for us to have an agricultural and livestock sector in Euskadi, of course, that is of economic activity, with a fair scheme and that makes it possible for them to act in the future, their competitiveness and a decent life for all those people who are working in the primary sector. This requires an important effort at the time of defining this CAP, and that we really give it the relevance it has to those professional people who are engaged in most of their activity precisely to it, and that we do not use these resources for other actions, which are equally relevant, but that we do not use CAP resources to do so. Finally, I was talking about the resources that can come from Next Generation. Well, they're currently divided into two relevant areas. An area to be managed by the Ministry of Agriculture itself, which is not to be regionalized, is to be managed by the Ministry itself, which is resources intended, for example, for irrigation and others, which are not excessive, but are to be decided by them on the basis of a number of projects which they consider to be priorities. And secondly, a PERTE that will be defined from the Ministry of Industry dedicated to the food industry and, of course, in which we have presented our options, our projects, and which we trust can be taken into account. They are therefore two important aspects, but I believe that this strategy which defines Europe, from farm to table Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, "about the collapse of Epsilon Eurekas, the popular team of the Basque Barrojas-Ciudadanians, the head of the Economics Department of Economisme and Environmental, about the problems that are being handled by the Miñan World Park of World. " Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u73	Yes, thank you very much, President. Good morning again to everyone and everyone. Mrs. Tapia. Well, we have been dragging, since 2011, the consequences of the Epsilon Euskadi project, a project that, as you all know, was a private initiative project paid for basically with public money from the institutions, money that we still pay the Basques. This Parliament also analysed this corporate failure and its responsibilities, at that time and in a committee of inquiry. According to various information, we have also seen that, in relation to what affects that building called Marie Curie of the Álava Technological Park, after the failure of 2011 of the Epsilon project, it was impossible to sell the building of the wind tunnel, because there is some kind of conversion, some kind of planned performance. And there is still, in another order of things, an outstanding debt that will be supposedly prolonged in its payment until 2032, for the effects of corporate failure and for the endorsements assumed, in that way, by the technology park at that time, which, well, was quite an incredible performance, but, well, it has already been analyzed as well. That is, that we are paying, we will pay among all about 19 million, which may be more. Well, that's the fundamental element. We want to know what actions your department intends to carry out in relation to the building of the failed company Epsilon Euskadi in the technological park. There is a wind tunnel installed, and it is up to you to make decisions and we want to know them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u74	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Tapia, to answer, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u75	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Barrio, you certainly know and, therefore, you ask me, that in the budget of the year 2021 in the Technological Park of Araba there is incorporated an item for the drafting of the project and execution of works for the enabling and commissioning of the Marie Curie building for its transformation into a multi-entrepreneur building. This will allow us, instead of having a building that can only accommodate business projects of a very important size, to carry out some conditioning works that allow us to allow that building to be multipurpose, to use it one or more companies and, moreover, if it is a company, to acquire a somewhat smaller space in the first place, to be able to acquire more spaces according to the needs of growth. This project will in some way make it easier for projects that have already approached at this time – we have had more than 32 possible stakeholders in that building, but which, of course, did not need it completely – to house some of their operations. And that's our main goal right now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u77	Yeah. Thank you very much, President. Indeed, Mrs Tapia, there is the building, after what happened with the corporate failure of Epsilon, of that fiasco which, I repeat, we are paying among all, at least in one way, of that 19 million, apart from maintenance, cleaning, security. We speak again of the samples of interest, which has been used as an euphemism since about 2015 in relation to what happens with the wind tunnel, in relation to what happens with the building, with the interest of some companies. Nothing effective has ever materialized, nobody knows anything, and the building loses its value, loses its facilities, and that economic damage is serious. You are at the forefront of information about what happens in the Álava Technology Park and about this infrastructure that also makes us have to expand capital, have to have losses every year. That's something of an important gravity. We do not know whether the reform is a patch or wants to be an ambitious reform, and we need a little more information on this issue. It has been so serious what has happened, it continues to drag all that into the technological park, that we want to go beyond the euphemisms to know effectively where we are in that situation and what is going to happen. And that's the question you have to really clear us up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u78	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u79	Mr. Barrio, when we talk about euphemisms, when I talk about "shows of interest", they are companies that have approached the Technological Park to see if they could settle in that area. It is true that it is a very large building, with very important spaces, where there is also a wind tunnel. What's going on? That, despite that interest, the building, as it is, is impossible to market it in a multi-entrepreneurial manner. Therefore, what has been developed from the technology park is a specific marketing plan of the Marie Curie building, so that it can be carried out by spaces – as I have told you – that do not have to occupy the integrity of the building. This operation must be carried out through this project that we have launched, which appears in the budgets, so that we can host initiatives that at this time are impossible to host or have difficulties. While the exterior aspect of the building, the materials with which it has been built, are attractive and present the possibility of attracting these companies, we need to carry out a work of conditioning which, however, I must also point out that it is conditioned by the fact that there may be some special interest of some company that wants to be housed in that space. Therefore, we work with the two areas of action: if there is any company that wants to occupy everything, it will have the absolute priority; if there is no such company, we continue with the work to market it by parts and condition it so that it can be used. That will, of course, allow us to mitigate those losses that may exist at this time in the park. And there is also talk of working it in different ways, as it is done in any of the other technological parks in Euskadi: it can be through the acquisition of spaces or it can be through the rental of spaces and it can even be with a rental with option of purchase. We work in all areas. And I must also point out that at this moment the dynamism and activity that is observed in the Technological Park of Miñano makes us optimistic about the commercialization of this area of the Marie Curie building.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "I'm asking you, "I'm asking you, Miss Casanova Alonso EH collect members of the team of the Department of Economics, patience, and Environmental Chief, about Petronor's work conflict and transformation process." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u81	Yeah. Good morning to all of you and especially to the members of the Petror company who are with us today, and also to the workers outside. Yesterday Congress in Madrid granted a final approval to the law of climatical change. The absence of provisions, this law marks some important landmarks on the process of decobation, and, as to the subject we are treating of today, I shall mention some very important ones: On the one hand, for 2050 years, the debonization of the whole economy of the state is planned, and there can be a new boundary between the disappearance of cars orrmal vehicles or the disappearance of sales in 2040. This, no doubt, produces a huge impact and gas This morning, my colleague Jon Hernández asked a question about the conflict in that company at this moment. But my question goes beyond. This company is going to start the whole reorganization of its model, and we're wondering if it's ready to help the change, to help this transformation, from the parameters of the transition we're proposing, that is to say, work, work, conditions, and the economy of the region. This is our question.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u82	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u83	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Casanova, you have mentioned, in some measure, the two vertices of this subject. On the one hand, the work conflict. I believe the second Vice President has answered that part because it belongs to him. So I won't go in there. The second is that of the divorce, I think I answered Mr. Soto a few months ago, together with a question of Podemos. But I don't have a problem. I can say the same today. It is true, and we discussed it this week, when we mentioned Basque Green Deal, that, after all, it presupposes a transformation, a modification of the economy, but must always be, on the one hand, just, socially just, and on the other hand, that this development must be bearable. So completely agree. In this case, Petror and other corporations, oil & gas In that sense, the Basque Organization of energy is always there to share and share in different projects. On the other hand, even in the Cluster of Power, there are a series of subjects in the area of Oil and gas. 2 how to avoid or avoid leaks. And, of course, generate the retivable energy and use less energy. In consideration of all these matters, Petronor has a very precursor in these matters. And, of course, we are willing to help, not only to help, but to bring in the resources which we have to take to the level of Europe in order to make a just and bearable transformation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u85	Well, Commissioner, what we are proposing to your Government is that it should not remain in expectation and not just follow the path set by large companies, but that it should be able to draw up a road map of its own for one sector, and also, in this case, for an area that brings together a number of complexities that require the greatest effort from the public. I ask you not to go behind the scenes and not just meet the needs of what companies ask for. And there are several examples. We have a technology park in the area, which was done, well, in Petronor's backyard. An area that wasn't artificialized has been artificialized, while we have industrial soils in disuse. Only in Abanto Park have 15 million euros been spent on accesses and roads, when that money could have been invested in another matter, if the objective had not been to put Petronor a technological park in the back door. Hydrogen, all right, all right, but watch out for hydrogen. It is not going to be that, first, we are facing a new bubble, and there are many indicators that indicate that more projects are being generated than actual demand is capable of absorbing. And then watch out for the hydrogen model that we want to develop, because, as you well know, not all hydrogen is green, and we are not going to sell cat per hare and, in the end, facilitate gas and oil companies that take advantage of their infrastructure and business model with a pseudogreen coating on account of hydrogen. Companies must be supported in their transformation processes, but we cannot afford to be given the money either. The government is not to give money to companies, it is to accompany. And if strong investments come from the public, these investments must also be accompanied by participation in the ownership of the projects. We must ensure, as we said, that this takes place under the parameters of the just transition, which, in principle, is a concept intended to accompany closures of thermal and nuclear power plants, and mining. Perhaps legally it does not fit 100% with the question of a refinery, but we believe that philosophy does fit, that is, a very strong, highly carbon-producing activity, which is to be converted, needs to be accompanied so that employment is not deteriorated in quantity and quality and the areas where these transformations occur are not diminished in terms of their socio-economic possibilities. Therefore, we do ask you to be there. We do ask them to be with the companies, but we also ask them to have leadership in public policy and leadership from the public. Fair transition strategies exist. Fair transition agreements exist. The possibilities of applying this philosophy in a similar way to this case are there, even considering the possibility of using part of the resources and funds that exist for this as well. And that's kind of what we came to ask. Don't just do what you've been doing so far, that is, that companies ask and you go after what you're asking for. Have leadership, have a stake in the area and have the capacity to be in the projects, not only by contributing in depth, but also by becoming their partners, always under the guidance of employment, the quality of employment and the transition to green projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u86	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. [[He spoke off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u87	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Casanova, I am very pleased that, after all the debates in the last parliamentary term, we have internalized the concept that the government must accompany When I was talking to him, of course, not only about being behind, but about working intensely with the hand and even ahead, we talked about that Energy Intelligence Center. Important, important. To this day, of course, if we had built it, it would be full, because not only do we talk about industries associated with oil & offshore gas It is a technological park associated with the energy field. Of course, we think we have a lot of potential talking about hydrogen, because we have to talk about it, it's not the panacea, but we also have to talk about it. And I've told you from the beginning, green hydrogen. We talk about participating in companies, because what else we have done with Petronor than participating in Ibil a long time ago, when the electric vehicle charging units were launched, with government participation in the ownership of that company. So it's not that you ask us today and we have to do it tomorrow, it's that we've done it before, we've done it with Repsol and we've done it with Petronor. And we must continue to work with our own strategy on renewable energy, green hydrogen and, of course, try to work for energy efficiency. That is the road map that we have on which we will accompany, with participation and with subsidy, all companies that need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. fourteen points in theme list: "I'm asking you, about the Erenovation plan of the Eulegious Economics Company, the Economics Department of Economics and Environmental Department, the Esquire Plane of the Euse-Ese-Equilly. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Counselor. We have recently been pleased to see in the press the announcement that your Government, through the Basque Energy Agency, has put forward a new new automotive plan. As you know, our group presented in this Parliament on 10 February, that is, very recently, a non-legislative proposal proposing the creation of a exactly the same renewal plan for this year, which would encourage the purchase of electrified vehicles, but not forgetting the renovation of the current fleet of diesel and petrol vehicles. And this well-intentioned proposal turns out to have received the negative vote from his party and the PSOE without any attempt to agree. If they had supported our initiative, we could have implemented this renewal plan three months ago. Dealers are in a very critical situation. Our citizens, as you know, need help without delay. And we see that what was unacceptable three months ago, you are trying to make it pass now as a great achievement. Well, we have seen in the press some details of the new plan, but we would like to hear from the counsellor's own voice what exactly the conditions of the renewed plan announced by her Government will be.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u90	Thank you, Mr. Gil. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u91	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Gil, we must know that the rereneves plan isn't the first one we're making Euskadin. And we discussed it, at that moment, three months ago, that we had to consider what was going on in the first quarter of the month. We also had to see the other scholarships, the program Moves, and the progress of the market. And also, and not less important, when we start the renova plan, we don't just make more cars to sell, but CO. 2 To lessen the flow, that is to say, to make the way which we must make in the neurotic transition: to remove old cars from the highways and to get new cars into which will be much less fluid. In this sense, as in other cases, we have done with some kind of technological neutrality. Because the gas oils or gas cars now are much less fluid than the old ones we've got. And every citizen may have a chance to put his new car in place of the old one, and certainly not to be infected. That's the first task of the renova plan, and the first goal, not selling any more cars, CO. 2 It's just that there's less fluid.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Gil, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u93	Madam Counsellor, I suppose that ecological objective would be the same three months ago that now, I do not see why this delay justifies it. However, something curious happened in the 2020 renewal plan, and it is that hundreds of people who signed up could not receive the aid despite meeting the requirements, because, as you know, the funds were exhausted. In September 2020, from the Basque Energy Agency, calls were made for users to continue to sign up for the renewed plan in case it was re-funded. And we ask ourselves: what now happens to those people who, meeting the requirements, had no subsidy? And why did they encourage them to sign up for a listing if their intention was not at any time to extend that plan? On the other hand, the plan renews that you are now presenting, we see that it is a mere copy of the 2020 plan, but endowed, that is, with half the budget. It is, therefore, to our liking, an insufficient budget. You know perfectly well that with the current rate of enrolment the budget is going to run out quickly and yet you provide the programme with half the funds that last year. But it seems that the government's objective is to take the picture now, once it has rejected our proposal in this very Parliament, and to take the picture again in July, when it is forced to expand the funds of the plan. That is, instead of doing it directly, they divide it into two, because so their goal is the photo and they don't really help the sector that could already take three months with the plan in place. We already know that the purpose of the renewal plan is no longer to sell. We understand that the goal of the renewal plan is to help people who need it to have safer and newer cars. And that target, I repeat, is the same three months ago as now. On the other hand, it is a plan that will help people with lower economic incomes and, therefore, it seems to us that it is a necessary plan, but it does seem to us that public funds are being used to put us on party medals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u94	Thank you. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u95	Yes, thank you. I'm not going into that provocation, really. The plan we managed from the Basque Energy Agency has been in operation for five years now. We can therefore say that we have already removed quite a few old vehicles from the road, and we have provided it with EUR 5 million, because we believe that removing another 2,500 old vehicles from the road is an important objective. Let us not forget that there is the Moves II Plan, that is, last year's Plan, which has not exhausted its resources, and the Moves III Plan, which has so much more resources this year and more aid, which is going to help us decarbonize and put electric vehicles on the road. We have provided it with EUR 5 million for vehicles over 10 years old which must be flattened and, of course, will be in force from 1 June. Of course, all those who meet the requirements and who prove that they have met the requirements until the resources are determined will be able to avail themselves of these aids to purchase new vehicles. But, I insist, it is not the only program, there are Moves II and Moves III, which will help us meet those requirements. Therefore, when we put in place a programme of these characteristics, it is not done in a light way, but quite the contrary, after making a fairly relevant analysis. Moreover, last year, when this programme was completed, we analysed what happened with the four previous aid programmes and noted that the objective of removing old vehicles from the road had been quite well achieved. This year's programme, we will consider that it can also be the last of these characteristics, since it has already met many of those objectives. And, I insist, if we are working to electrify our vehicles, electrify the roads, and if we really believe that that law that was passed yesterday and another law that we will bring to the Basque Parliament that also has to go in that direction, we must all work to make that a reality. Of course, we must not forget a very important element. It's okay to buy vehicles that can be electric or electrified, but we need to equip ourselves with the necessary infrastructure, and this also requires resources. Therefore, we have to work on each and every one of the lines, not just this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 15th point in the theme list: "The question is, that the parliamentary members of the Four Garrido Knörr Euscals team have been made to the head of the Medical Department, the neglect of the insertion of professional offices in police and in judicial offices." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u97	Mrs. President, head of the Medical Department. Well, this new fact demonstrates the disastrous management of the vaccination campaign being carried out by the Basque Government. And the change in criteria is evident, which shows a clear improvisation. On 26 April, the Deputy Health Adviser informed the dean of the illustrious Álava College, also those of Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, that the vaccination of lawyers providing emergency services at the police station was to be carried out. For this purpose, they are instructed to submit the relevant lists so that these persons, these lawyers, are vaccinated. What is the surprise, that 48 hours later, once the lists have been drawn up, the Deputy Health Adviser points out that vaccination of this group will no longer be carried out. There is no doubt that there is a change in criteria that has no apparent justification. And the dean himself of the illustrious Bar Association of Álava writes a letter in which they describe this situation as shameful and regrettable, to which the Bar Association of Bizkaia also joins showing its surprise, disbelief and indignation. The truth is that these things, Madam Counsellor, are not understood, especially because they cause confusion to a particular group and to the general population. And the most serious thing is that what you are demonstrating is a way of proceeding from this Government, which seems to be that the vaccination process is not taking it as seriously as it has to take it. That is why we ask you what is the reason for this method of proceeding and, in this particular case, for a change in the criterion of this dimension in just 48 hours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u98	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u99	Mrs. President. The reason is one and only: an explicit warning from the Ministry of Health not to carry out such vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u101	Yes, ma'am, but in the end you're on the same boat. You are the ones who are supporting the government of Pedro Sánchez in Madrid. You are in the Interterritorial Commission on Public Health, in other bodies where the criteria for vaccination are laid down. I mean, you'll have information. I understand you'll have to have some kind of information. Or, of course, when they launch a communication to an important group to proceed with their vaccination, they will have the certainty that the criteria will not be changed. You are preferred partners of Pedro Sánchez and Podemos in Madrid. I say that this will allow them to have some kind of inside information – in quotes – so that these kinds of situations do not happen. In any case, for you too acted too quickly and had to have waited for that criterion to be perfectly established. Beyond who is to blame, who can even be shared, because, well, the criteria are one, but seeing also how the Madrid Government acts, you also had to be cautious on some issues, when there are such changing criteria, and not to issue letters to collectives, because then the expectations are frustrated, and that the criterion is changed in 48 hours, with everything that it implies. Because this involves drawing up a list, i.e., it involved a job for the corresponding schools. But beyond that, this also shows one more sample of one way of acting in this entire vaccination process. That it was the centenaries, it was that collectives were notified when the vaccination of previous collectives was not completed, it was the website of Osakidetza, it is called the elderly people to vaccinate at ten o'clock in the night. There are a lot of issues, Commissioner, which are clearly pointing out that this Basque Government is not leading and that it is not doing what needs to be done to ensure that this management of this vaccination process works properly and properly.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u102	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Ms. apple, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u103	Thank you. Look, Mrs. Garrido, you keep mixing some things with other things and making there a whirlwind so no one will find out. It seems, above all, that he has arguments, but he does not. You know well at this point how the vaccination strategy is developed. We listen to the Vaccination Paper and then we approve it in the Public Health Commission. And that's how all the autonomous communities then follow those lines to adapt them to our communities. Do you know how many times we've had to adapt that strategy so far? Seven times. Why? You also know very well, because I have told you everything in the Health Committee every week. Yesterday, too, the seventh update of the Vaccine Strategy. And the arrival of AstraZeneca, which was the one that incorporated into the vaccination process the so-called essential groups, was because the indication, which was a scientific indication – it was not a political decision – was for people under the age of 55. And that's why these people under 55 begin to get vaccinated when the other groups of people, older than they can only get vaccinated at that time with Pfizer and Moderna, were still following their vaccination process. We've told him several times, but as he tries to mix it up, I'll tell him again. As with other groups, i.e., with health care or at-risk personnel, the Vaccination Strategy provides the most accurate description of the essential recipients of these vaccines. But it's impossible to get to the whole case. And with the vaccination of members of the Security Corps and prisons under the age of 55, from the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy we were asked to consider the lawyers of the duty shifts as the two previous collectives. Why? Because of their presence in police stations and units to which they have to go to serve their clients frequently, they should therefore join the same group. We were also asked, yes, by the Bar Associations and the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country. That's how we consider it, how we prepare it, and how we communicate it to you. But the Ministry of Health was informed, according to the State Secretariat, by the media. It seems that someone told it, because we didn't tell anything, they just came into this group. And he sent an instruction not to carry out the vaccination. That was a direct order from the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Apple. The 16th point in the theme list: "Interrelation, made by Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez to the populare of Euscalia-Ciudadans to the head of the Police Department of Equality, Justice, and Society, to transfer prisons." Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u105	Thank you very much, Madam President. Members of the Government who remain here at this hour, ladies and gentlemen. Well, the question I have raised, which we have raised from our group to Mrs Beatriz Artolazabal, has to do with a series of initiatives and inquiries which I personally have been presenting to various members of her Government concerning what is the transfer, or rather the transfer of personal material and human resources on the subject of the implementation of prison policy, which is often called the transfer of prisons. I have put forward various initiatives in this Parliament simply to get to know one thing, to make it clear, to have light and tachographs, to know how this transfer of competences or material and human means was being negotiated and, above all, under what conditions they were going to arrive. However, the Government's speech, rather than focusing on it, has always been in the way that it seems that it will establish or implement a prison execution model different from that applied in this case by the central Government, different from that applied in the rest of Spain, also removing the case of Catalonia. That is why I considered it important today to present this inquiry to give the counsellor the opportunity to explain to us, to illustrate us, to give us the light on what this model is going to be, since it seems that the prisons after some question that arose at the beginning of the legislature will depend on her department. Let me, ladies and gentlemen, briefly put them on record. First of all, three figures, which are the three that have transcended, I insist, through the press. It is not because of the lack of questions, of interpellations, etc. that I have put before this House. In fact, I would like to remind you, Madam Counsellor, that you are awaiting a resolution from this House, which stated that once the agreement in the Joint Transfer Committee was closed, you had to send all the information on how that agreement had been to the groups in this House. It is a little different from the initiative I presented, but, well, the government parties finally approved it with the support of another group. The three figures I was saying, which I think are important, which have been published throughout the press, are 1,300, 700 and 70. And every one of these figures, I believe, in my opinion, and it's quite easy to verify it, locks up some trap, some deception and, above all, lack of concreteness. First of all, 1,300. It is said that there are 1,300 prisoners in Euskadi. Well, I think here the Administration is going to have a problem, and it's that there may be 1,300 inmates in Euskadi, by the way, half of whom are already in third grade, third grade that means developing the vast majority of vital space, especially of the day, out of prisons. It is true that there is already half, but 1,300 are the ones that are there; there are others that are outside. And when there are others who are out, it doesn't mean just that there are other people who have lived their whole lives in Euskadi and who are out in another prison for whatever reason, that the prison administration has moved them there, but they can also be people who know they have root in Euskadi. There's plenty. According to the IAPA, which is the prison computer system, it is the one that collects precisely these statistics, because, man, there may be two thousand people who are estimated to have a root in Euskadi and that we must know how they will stay. That is why it was interesting to ask these questions a long time ago, looking also for a policy of prevention and to see a little bit of what the thing was going to be about. There may be a substantial group of prisoners who eventually end up being assigned to the Euskadi prisons. Second figure: 700. Some 700 are said to be officials who will become dependent on the Basque Government. In the first statements that came out, as always, in the press, not in this Parliament, the Government said there were about 1,000 officials. I already told him in one of my appearances here, in one of my interventions, that he was closer to 600 than 1,000. Well, they finally put it in 700. It is a little less than 700, it is true that it is between 600 and 700, but perhaps more than 600 than 700. In any case, these are the officials. What has worried us, what has worried the Government of civil servants? Well, look, the officials have also been quite on the sidelines in this whole process. It is true that since you have appointed this new high office, the new vice-counsel, as you have been visiting prisons, the other day you were in Basauri, you had previously been in another. Well, it's okay for me to make a series of prison visits, but, man, I think I should have counted on the officials, who, by the way, are the ones who know how prison policy is being implemented and who are going to depend on your department throughout the process. The unions? Well, the truth is, they haven't been properly informed either. And look at the unions being the first to appear in every legislative process we have opened in this Parliament. Well, look, here, exactly, no. In this process, precisely, no. What have you been interested in from those officials? For, look, they were fundamentally interested in two things, as I know, when the ministry was called. First, the pay levels they had, pay levels, and then the subject of knowledge of the Basque. I think it is great that the Administration is actually encouraging that it can be used and that people can communicate in the language, in the language of our choice, but that is very important for us to be clear to all. By the way, the other day there was a judgment in this regard, that this is an obligation of the Administration, not an obligation that each official has to fulfill, it is not necessary for all officials individually to speak Basque in order to be able to fulfill this right that may be enjoyed by persons, prisoners, many of whom also have no Spanish nationality. The third figure, 70, 70 million, seems to be the amount in which the budget allocated has finally been calculated, say, EUR 1 billion has been valued at a peak of EUR 1 billion in prison competition and the famous criterion of 6.24% has been applied. Man, I'd like to know if the criterion is this, what if now suddenly comes to us a higher number of prisoners, of prisoners, with this budget, that is, has the budget not been based on the number of prisons, on the number of officials and on the number of prisoners?, has it been based on 6.24%? Man, I think this also deserves an explanation from your department. I insist, in all this process, and I said it sincerely from the beginning, I was simply asking for information. Well, after this inquiry, the councilwoman recorded a document in Parliament, which we have finally been able to access by the various groups, and it is a document which essentially says: "The basic principles of the Basque prison model are going to be the principle of the dignity of the person", man, it was only missing. Article 10.1 of the Constitution, by the way, establishes the principle of human dignity, and I believe that the dignity of the person is essential. What, so far human dignity is not being respected? Second principle, reduction of prison use. Is it that more than half of the people imprisoned in Euskadi are in third grade, that is not reducing the use of prison already? Thirdly, the principle of resocialisation at Community level. There are activities and there are a lot of situations and projects that allow people who are in prison to be reinserted. Gender mainstreaming. As I understand it, so is the restorative perspective. The Nanclares route began with full prison competition, less in the case of the Basque Country, in the case of Catalonia, in the hands of the central government. And then the third, the principle of integration of public policies, because the same, a coordination between administrations that had already existed. It is the argument that gives me always by the way your Government, is that this has already been done. Well, it's true this time, it's been done. I insist that after reading this documentation I hope to attend the appearance that you have asked for in the committee, although I have already seen that you have counter-programmed us to Parliament and that tomorrow you will also make a public presentation of what this model is going to be, but well, I believe that we have the opportunity here today and I also thank you for coming here today and explaining to us, because, I insist, all this seems to me to be the following: it seems to me that there is a hurry on the part of the Basque Government to make a political point at a certain point of weakness. This has to be recognized. And secondly, I believe that here you are competing with the bench opposite, because here the agreement, which also denounced Mr Egibar, which is not with us today, but Mr Egibar has said it here, the agreement of two a week But the fear I have here is that this can become a situation in which we want to establish not a prison policy anymore, but an implementation of the prison policy other than the criteria which are common and which are the ones that establish general prison legislation. Which is what happened, by the way, in Catalonia. That's my fear. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this is why I am asking you here today, and I simply ask you to shed light on it, and I ask you to shed light on it: What are the purposes of your Government in relation to the way in which it exercises so-called competence in prisons, including the implementation in Basquedi of this new prison model that you have recently sent to this Parliament in a document? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u106	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u107	The head of the table, members of the legislature, chief of the department, is a good day. Senor Gordillo, Les días. This Government does not counter-programme, it is very clear its road map. In the end I will have to thank you for your insistence and thanks to you the message of this Government will be able to reach out more to the citizens, who will be informed first hand and not by the tendentious messages that emerge from the environments of your coalition. Thanks to you we will be able to re-transfer our joy, first of all, by the arrival four decades after a symbolic competition established in the Statute of Gernika. Reading your justification, it is clear to me that you are making a biased and interested reading of our words and of the journalistic information; however, it seems that you do not pay the same attention when this counselor exposed 15 days ago, and also months ago, the guidelines that will chisel the Basque prison model. Don't worry, I'll tell you again whenever I need to. However, before I begin with the presentation, I must correct one point raised in your question: it ensures that this House has not yet been informed. And this adviser, as you have said, has already asked to appear before Parliament at her own request in order to explain the agreement on the transfer and the basis for the implementation of the prison model in Euskadi as soon as it has materialised, Mr Gordillo. I couldn't say before, we didn't know what it was going to materialize in. The basic document was forwarded to Parliament and to the parliamentary groups the day after that agreement. It is signed on Monday, Tuesday it is reported to the Governing Council and that same Tuesday I request request and transfer the report, without even waiting for the date of entry into force of the same agreement, which, as you know, is legal, for it to be effective it has to be published in the BOE and the BOPV. We have informed this House long before the transfer is effective, which will be on 1 October, without prejudice to the fact that the management of prison work differs until 1 January 2022. What more speed can you ask me, Mr. Gordillo? Recognize that they are sometimes eager to make noise, at least I understand it, to control public opinion, even if it is lacking in the truth. What do you intend, in reality, to launch continuous insidia? Moisturize, condition? I must also question another point in the justification of your inquiry. What do you mean when you say that my Department, and I quote, "has made any specific appointment of a high office, as well as new appointments"? I would like to clarify that the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy, so far, has only incorporated one person to advise us in all matters relating to prison institutions. It is Judge Jaime Tapia, a professional of the judiciary, with an unquestionable trajectory. A person who joins us to help us develop, with his professional knowledge, the Basque prison model that you describe and criticize without – as you have acknowledged – having previously been informed. You will understand that the assumption of this competence will require the formation of a human team to prepare for the transition to the new situation before 1 October. I will now try to provide a number of brushes of the content of the document that we have prepared as a basis for developing in the future. This is the beginning of the embryo of a model that needs development and a lot of work, in addition to many doses of professionalism, commitment and illusion. We have taken as our starting point the 59 resolutions that the Basque Parliament adopted in 2019 and the technical proposal drawn up by a multidisciplinary team of experts. And we're on it. To begin with, tomorrow Saturday we publicly resume a process of listening and contrasting with the different agents related to prisons: personnel, entities, leadership and victims, of course. And I've met with the unions, with the workers' representatives, with the prison directors, but I haven't gone to jail, because they weren't ours yet, Mr. Gordillo. Now I'm going to have the opportunity to meet them, because I already have the scheduled appointments, which I don't counter-program. I announce that the two directors of Zaballa and Basauri and the director of Martutene will attend this meeting, that together with the rest of our team and representatives of other departments of the Basque Government will listen to the reflections of the different associations of the third sector – by the way, I have also met with them on several occasions – who work day by day with the group of prisoners. We now have months ahead of intense work, to continue to shape a person-centred model of our own and to seek the resocialization and reintegration into society of those who have committed a crime and are deprived of their liberty. I repeat that we are talking about people, about recovering them for society through socio-educational work focused on their shortcomings and by activating initiatives that return them to society with the aim of reducing the rates of recidivism, with individualized work that tries to provide them with itineraries with new opportunities for their integration. And I would like to emphasise to you that we are betting on a model that thinks respectfully of the victims, Mr Gordillo, because it cannot be otherwise. The victims are placed at the epicenter of this model, which will not lose sight of their needs and rights. The victims are and will be at the centre of our policy of coexistence and human rights, because the debt to the victims is far from being paid off yet. Victims who have given us an example of resilience, generosity, looking to the future, without hatred and without revenge. The victims are certainly a great attraction for coexistence. And, Mr Gordillo, victims and prison policy are neither antagonistic nor confrontational. The restorative path offers us a way to explore from the total respect for the preservation of the dignity and rights of the victims. In fact, it can't be otherwise. Victims are placed in the epicre of this example, and this example will not lose its wants and its rights. I'm sure that in this equation, where the damage inflicted on the victim is a priority, the first-rate judge takes an important role. It is therefore not understood that the rights of the prisoners are unjust to the victims, and we do not forget that those who dwell within the walls live without the liberty of moving for a judicial judgment. It's up to them to use and take advantage of the social instruments we give them. It is not understood that safeguarding the rights of prisoners is an aggravation to the victims. And we also do not forget, of course, that those who are within walls I am convinced that with our model we will achieve a safer and fairer society. We will apply a gender perspective, with particular attention to the double condemnation of prisoners for their status as women, or to the children of inmates and interns. We will monitor the health of prisoners and prisoners, with special attention to mental health and addictions. We will strengthen the involvement of parliaments, municipalities and social entities in the resocialization of prisoners. This model involves individualizing the execution of sentences and measures in an open environment, as well as promoting specific programmes of individualized treatment within the prison. And we guarantee the current rights and working conditions of the civil servants and labour personnel who are currently working in Basque prisons. I would like to convey to this collective tranquillity and my support. I would also like to express my appreciation to you for your difficult and necessary work, for which you have been threatened during the hardest years of terrorism. These are the limbs with which we will model our model, Mr. Gordillo. A work necessarily inter-institutional. A work necessarily interdepartmental, which will involve from Health to Public Service, from Education to Security, from Emakunde to Lanbide. In the Government we have always thought of the 1,000 prisoners and prisoners in the Basque prisons; you seem to focus all your attention on four dozen prisoners. In my department we will work with all prisoners and prisoners to prevent them from recidivizing, people who are in prison because they have committed a crime, and we will strive, and they too will have to work, to return to society reintegrated and not released, once their sentences have been served. The words have a lot of meaning, Mr Gordillo, they criticize us too, you have said so, because they say that there are a large number of prisoners in Basque prisons and another more important number of Basque origin who could request the transfer to Euskadi, thus causing a saturation of our prisons. Don't worry, Mr. Gordillo. Currently, the prisons in Euskadi are at 50% of their capacity. And to request or accept transfers from Spanish prisons to Basques and vice versa there already exist, and are established, inter-institutional mechanisms, in particular the Royal Decree 1436/1984. In all these months I have not heard you say, not to you or anyone in your coalition, not a word about the 960 prisoners and prisoners who have no terrorist crimes. They don't seem to be on their priorities. And it seems obvious, but I also want to clarify one thing. Graduations shall be made in application of the law, without arbitrariness, with objective bases and technical criteria, and with the last word of the competent judicial body. Because this is the Basque prison model, Mr Gordillo, of human rights.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Artolazabal, I very much liked the last sentence, that the model of this Government is the model of human rights. The prison model of this Government is the model of human rights. Do you mean that the prison model administered by Mr. Sánchez's government is not a human model in prisons? The Basque model, if different, does it mean that human rights are not respected there in the rest of Spain's prisons? You accuse me of making noise. But, well, I don't think there's anything more sonorous than the clamorous silence on many of the issues I've been asking you. If you look carefully at the questions I have been asking you, perhaps not directly, to your colleague at the time, Mrs Garamendi, because when the competition was still in the process of negotiation, it was also not very clear whether the calls in this regard should be put to Mr Erkoreka, Mrs Garamendi or yourself. But, well, what I have asked for at all times has been to inform us, to inform this House. That's what I've been asking for at all times. And, man, what you've told us today – by the way, it's already slipped or leaked it before the press – is also nothing new. "You make a symbolic reading, a biased reading..." No, no, What I said, from the beginning, is: under what conditions is this transfer going to occur? What are those conditions? Man, they've had time. He says, "No, I've come as soon as I can." Man, if I don't introduce you to the interpellations, it's like maybe you can save your appearance. Man, no. I think this is a serious enough issue, competition in prisons, just as it could be any other transfer. It's just that what we don't get in here or what you don't get in your head is that the issue of the distribution of competences is one that needs to be carefully analyzed, to see what is also the most efficient way, to see what is the best way to exercise certain competences, what is going to be the expenditure, what are the implications of staff, what are the implications of coordination. Anyway, I'll insist again, man, on the appointments you've made. You're telling me you haven't named anyone? Didn't you name Mr. Tapia? Mr Tapia, Don Jaime, by the way, with whom I have the best of personal relations, seems to me to be a very competent lawyer. Let's see how he's doing in this position. It's not the same as being a university professor as a parliamentarian. Nor is it the same to be a judge as a member of the Government. Let's see how he's doing on the job. When they have to criticize it, I will criticize it, always in the parameters of what politics is. But, man, don't tell me you haven't made any appointments. He says, "No, it's just jails..." I loved the phrase, "I haven't gone to jail, because they're not ours yet." The patrimonial sense, which often denounces him. The truth is, in the end, when they get a little distracted, they get away. Are you going to tell me that Mr. Tapia hasn't visited any prisons these days? You haven't visited any jails? Come on, man. If this is known. This is known. And meetings with the third sector. But the third sector has already been collaborating as well. The third sector is already collaborating, it is already collaborating. The fear is that, in the end, what is being done is that specific associations from the third sector will be sought that will end up doing the social reintegration policy, which has already been done by prison officials. You tell me I'm biased and so forth. What I see in your plan, precisely, is a very important biased burden of a misdemeanour of the work of prison officials. It is that the work of social reintegration, already recognized by the Constitution in article 25, among others, has already been carried out in Spain. And they do an extraordinary job of social reintegration. And more than half of Euskadi's prisoners are in third grade. And if you analyze, as your team should do, sets out a comparison of how grade progressions and regressions are in all the prisons in Spain, you will realize that Basque prisons are already, precisely as they were or had been, the ones that make the greatest number of progressions. Analyze that data and you'll notice. I mean, I'm not going to do as I'm often done by his colleagues who support him in the government, who to every initiative I present say to me, "It's that this is done and it's done, and it's over." But, man, I think it's a bad way to start, if we're already beginning to establish that we don't. It is that so far it has been done wrong, everything has been done wrong in the matter of prisons. They don't say it like that, but it implicitly deduces. "It's that the model we're going to establish is going to be a human model." And isn't the model so far human? The model we are going to establish now is one of collaboration with the third sector. Doesn't the third sector now cooperate? The model we are going to establish is that of human dignity. What's going on? Is human dignity not respected? That is what we need, I believe, which is desirable for you to clarify in this House. What is the specific model going to be? We'll look at the document you sent us. And we're still waiting for more details to be sent. And, above all, with this in mind, Madam Counsellor, we also have yet to receive reports from your colleague, Mrs Garamendi, on alleged outstanding competition issues that are still there. That's what we're asking. We ask for light and we ask for clarity in a thing as serious as this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u110	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u111	Thank you, ma'am. Of course we have carefully analysed staff costs, coordination, man, as it could not otherwise be, Mr Gordillo. And for a biased charge the statements you have been making over the last few days: "Do we give prisons to the Basque Country so that prisoners of age are rewarded for the great work they have done killing in Spain?". "Transfer is the first step to pardon ETA prisoners." "Prisons cannot be boutiques and luxury resorts for ETA criminals." "Competition cannot be a tailor-made suit for ETA prisoners." "Sanchez pact with the PNV the sudden release of prisoners." "Urkullu will demand that they go out without asking for forgiveness, compensate the victims and collaborate with justice." This is biased, sir, and moreover irresponsible, and another set of qualifications that come to mind. It seems that you also know more about the Basque prison model than you say, for all the statements you have been making. What's more, they know more than my own team. They're out of fact intentions that no one has expressed. No one has expressed it. It's like a court handed down a sentence before the crime was committed. And it's not all right, Mr. Gordillo. Searching for grandiose headlines gnawing at the citizenry with gross, easy insinuations and, above all, far from reality, is not to be responsible. On the contrary, it's very irresponsible. And I beg you that no one try to draw political revenue in 2021 from the terrible circumstances we have experienced in this country. Do not come to give us lessons of morality, good doing or defense of the victims of ETA. In empathy and closeness they won't beat me, in remoteness and condemnation of ETA they won't win me either. You cannot and should not use the pain of thousands of people for your own benefit and do not, please, commit such insulting frivolity. And I do not question my respect for those who have lived in the first person the terrorist scourge, among which I include, with all my empathy, his comrades of the Basque People's Party, Mr Gordillo, among many others. Don't question that respect or lack my intelligence when they gnaw at the citizenry with false accusations. They're talking about resort resort. They're talking about pardon. Excuse me, but what has been transferred to us has been the management, organization and functioning of the prisons. The drafting or decisions of the prison policy are ultimately guaranteed by the judicial authority, as you well know. And the power to pardon is not within the competence of this government. They talk about rewards and sudden discharges, it's that they've talked a lot, Mr. Gordillo. I'm afraid they don't understand or want to understand anything. Basis for the implementation of the prison model in Euskadi. In Euskadi we have done nothing but start. This is a background career that will require several legislatures until we reach the mature society we want. We will reach our goal through honest, sincere and loyal management, based on resocialization and restorative justice, which will also benefit the victims. I could conclude by telling you that if you don't want to participate in this process, step aside and let us work, without throwing at us manipulations or lies. But it's not my style. I resist throwing away the towel and I insist that you have an opportunity to be able to participate in the creation of this model, which is a working model in which we will take into account the needs of people who are deprived of their liberty to give them a new opportunity. And no, do not attempt to distort the action that this Government wants to take. Therefore, my last reflection and my last proposal is that if you want to work on this model, my hand is stretched out to be able to have its contributions and to be able to carry on an opportunity that, of course, is exciting to us, because we believe that we have a lot to improve on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the lawmakers of the Podemos-Ituerda Unidas, made to the chief of the Divisions of Equality, Justice, and Polylice Society, concerning the prison model for Euskadina." Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u113	Thank you, ma'am. The truth is that it has taken decades to compete with prisons, but it has finally been achieved with a progressive government in Spain. This is important. We have the competition, but now the question is, does the important work start, what is the Basque prison model?, what is it going to be?, how do we want to design it?, among whom?, what is our bet? That is why we want to ask you today precisely what are the main lines on which we are working, on which the Basque Government is basing itself on the design of the prison model for Euskadi. I have to admit that a model has already been presented, that duties have been done and a model has been presented, which is also a model that has some basic strategic lines that the truth is that they seem right to us, we talk about a restorative, resocializing approach, dignity of people. We therefore welcome this approach. Anyway, the question would be how do you intend to make this transition, how do we move from the model we have to the one we want to have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Your word is yours, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u115	Thank you. Well, let's go through with work, as it can't be otherwise, and also counting on the collaboration of all the agents and all those people who have something to say in the treatment of these people deprived of their liberty. But in addition, we want to do it among all of us and among all of us. Last Wednesday we agreed on the committee in which we presented the Youth Justice Plan and I, moreover, came out very pleased from that meeting, because all the groups that we were in the House, all without exception, we agreed to exalt the goodness of that model of restorative justice, which is one of the bases of our model of youth justice. We share concerns, we also share solutions, even, and longings for continuous improvement after 25 years ago we received that competition. It is a fundamental race, because in the year 95 we received the competence of the Basque system of juvenile justice, and after 25 years, well, we are seeing the fruits of that work, right? On October 1 another race begins, another marathon. And for that, let us start, as I have already transferred to Mr Gordillo, from those bases and from those principles, but also from the experience that after two decades of work we have in juvenile justice. As 25 years ago, we have the possibility of building our own model, within the margins established by legislation and by prison regulations, from the assumption, as it could not otherwise be, that all the management of prison policy ultimately remains in the hands of the courts, in the hands of the judiciary. But a first relevant fact is that, while in the Spanish Government the penitentiary institutions are still managed by the Ministry of the Interior, in Euskadi the lehendakari has entrusted us to the Department of Equality, Justice and Social Policy, according to articles 10.4 and 12.1 of the Statute of Gernika, the assumption of that competence by the penitentiary institutions. In addition, the addition to our team of Jaime Tapia, a judge who is not only a great jurist, but also a person with very deep humanistic values. Therefore, we have talked about the Basque prison model, because we intend to give those competences sensitivities that allow us to see differently how to implement them. At first, in this first phase, we are going to focus on prison. As this legislature moves forward, we will also have to talk about a model of criminal execution, and we would not want to generate exaggerated expectations in the short term either. I insist that it is a fundamental career, and now I am not going to detail the 100 measures that are contained in the document I referred to the House, but I do want to emphasize one thing, that this work is the result of many meetings with the third social sector, with expert persons, with responsible persons, with those responsible for the prisons. I have also met with representatives of prison officials, because they are a fundamental part of improving, if possible, work that has already been properly carried out in Basque prisons. This is a very sensitive competition, as you all know, that affects a thousand people, the civil servant and also the victims, and we believe that we are facing an opportunity, and that closeness is going to improve management. Just a few very brief strokes to tell you what our basic goals would be. First, we will outline the best situation for persons deprived of their liberty by strengthening the semi-freedom regimes. And then a progressive improvement in the accountability of persons deprived of their liberty. And I have no doubt that I count on your support and that of your group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Artola generous. Mrs. Hatch, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u117	Well, yes, I appreciate the answer. The truth is, we've run out of time, and I guess we'll have to take other occasions to talk about this. In any case, it is true that intentions are good, but in order for intentions not to stay on wet paper, then you have to do things. And of course, there are many questions that remain to be answered. I am thinking, for example, of what kind of training will be offered to people working in prisons, with what resources will be available in order to be able to carry out this transit effectively. We also need to know whether the facilities are going to be improved in order to be able to carry out this new model that is intended. With what social partners. He has commented that he has met with social partners. Well, what are those social workers? And what is going to be the procedure in which they are going to be granted, to recognize a place to talk. That is, there are still many questions beyond the broad lines of the strategy. And I wanted to tell you that it would be good if we could work together on all this, so that we could offer all these answers to all these and many other questions that arise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-14.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and five.
