ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I inform you that the fourth point has been left for another, and that 34 Mr. and Mrs. First point in theme list: "Mietion, the hatred of Mia, introduced together by the members of the Podemos-IU team, the new European policy, and the support of the struggle against the climate change, and of the vidibertsity of those regions and the bidibertsities. Discipline and final resolution. It's your turn, Mrs. Hatsies, to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u1	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. At the big meeting in the 30th of April, we had the opportunity to talk about the kind of neurotic model the government wants to encourage in Eukadin. An example, of which we can speak deeply here, in Parliament, has not been opened. And knowing that the government intends to make an agreement with the parties that make the legislature, and not just to be contacted with private corporations, that's very important to know. Besides, we just heard that the government is hiring private corporations to write laws. The truth is that the outsourcing of the legislative task is not understood; in addition to the precariousness of the public service, it inevitably favours the influence of private companies. And in this case, for example, if we think about the area we are dealing with today, in companies as we'll see later, because they could be Petronor, Iberdrola or the Mondragon Group. We know that they are companies that operate with rotating doors and that influence the content of the laws; now they would even be being paid to write the laws. Today, precisely, we have heard a judgment condemning the payment of EUR 6.3 million to consultants for creating public procurement networks. And among these consultants is, for example, PriceWaterhouse, which was the consultant who made the first of the Next Fund listings in Euskadi. Therefore, caution makes sense. To pay private companies for making laws: the appearance of uneasiness in the presence of it makes a great sense, because it causes doubts. And it is doubtful whether the object of the laws is to the citizen, or to the environment, whether it will be useful and just, or to some private corporations the aim of acquiring great economic benefits, especially in this case, and in the present case I shall say again for the Iberdrol, the Petron or the Mondragon Group. In any case, the issue today is to focus, to underline what are the new proposals of the Basque Government in terms of energy. After the adventure of gas and the wells of Armentia, the failed adventure of gas wells, the new proposals that seem to advance the Basque Government... I do not know whether the Socialist Party is also in this task or not. The energy-key proposals are as follows: on the one hand, bet on wind power plants, – in parentheses or added – I would say – in protected spaces and at the hand of Iberdrola; two, the photovoltaic megaplants at the hand of the Mondragon Group; and the hydrogen ball at the hand of Petronor. Along with this, extend once again the life of the gas industry, through the hydrogen produced by gas. Let's start with the wind power plants, with Iberdrola. At present, we know that there are six wind power projects. We have presented – and we said so the previous time – about 100 allegations against the first three wind power plants that have entered the phase of allegations, which are those of the Mounts of Iturrieta, saw of Arkamu and Labraza. All of them are represented by Aixendar, i.e. by the Basque and Iberdrola Government. Both Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita and the affected peoples, who have joined in an association, a platform that is Arabako Mendiak Aske, we have argued, because we understand, that these plants cause serious impacts on the protected natural spaces and the lives of the peoples. But we have also argued because these facilities are being processed at full speed, without planning. Because the sectoral territorial renewable energy plan has not yet been approved and the sectoral territorial wind energy plan was suspended in 2009 by this Parliament. That is, there is no real plan in place to regulate these facilities. It seems, then, that we need it, that we're in a great hurry to get ahead of those projects. And this necessity reminds us of the necessity which was in front of the gas-pus of the Armentia, so as to permit the law of the climate to be adopted. As you know, the law of the Change of the climate will be admitted in the second chamber, in the Senate. We must thank here above all for the law of Congress, Congresswoman Juank Lopez de Uguar, especially because it was the cause of it. From this day forward, we must see whether this law compromises the eoligarchies of the Iberdroll, for in order to make such a project as this law prescribes. The Climate Change Act obliges wind and photovoltaic power plants to remain outside environmentally protected areas, as we said the previous time. We now know that several of these wind power plants planned by the Basque Government and Iberdrola are located within these exclusion zones, let us say. We say that the law affects both wind power plants and photovoltaic megaplants that are being built in Araba. And we certainly do not know, really, whether they are all within or outside exclusion zones. We do not know whether the Government is clear. And if you're not clear, why do you go ahead with these projects? The law also warns that plans or strategies around renewable energies should be carried out by encouraging public participation through, he says, "citizen assemblies". So, these projects have three problems. On the one hand, there's no such operation. It's not supported by the remodeling energy plan. And there is no process of participation, no process of getting involved, not even with the citizen or the political parties. The people who are affected have been organized as Arabako Mendiak Aske and have obtained 18,000 signatures against these projects, have they been heard anywhere? This association that represents these 18,000 signatures, has it had room in any participatory process? Since the adoption of this Climate Change Act, and without the approved sectoral territorial renewable energy plan, the question is: will these wind and solar mega-plants continue to be processed at full speed? Or do we stop a little bit and try to adjust to what the law says? For all this, in our motion, in the motion that we are presenting today, we urge the Basque Government to establish a temporary moratorium on the processing and authorization of Euskadi wind and photovoltaic power plants, so that they can be properly adapted to the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act that is being approved today, and to the future approval of the territorial sectoral renewable energy plan in Euskadi. It is true that in our motion we also called for the adoption of the law. But we know that today, at last, the law will be passed. So now it's time to adapt to the law already passed. In addition to the temporary moratorium on energy projects, in our motion we called for the future sectoral territorial renewable energy plan to integrate the demands of the Climate Change Act and for energy projects to be installed in areas where biodiversity and the environment are not destroyed and for citizen participation to be ensured in projects that affect their daily lives. The Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group have proposed an amendment calling for the territorial plan to be carried out with the greatest possible political and social consensus. And that's fine, yeah. But, of course, the question is what this is about, because Decree 46/2020 of March this year already allows for a programme of public participation in the procedure to approve the plans. However, if we look at the substance of this process, of this procedure, the truth is that the substance is limited to providing information, at first, and then gathering allegations, allegations that serve little purpose if they are not made any case and are not introduced into a more interactive debate and listening procedure. Of course, if these participatory processes are not produced or properly organized, how can we expect broad consensus to exist? It's not very easy. We believe, in any case, that it is fundamental, it is very important that the roller should not be applied. It is important, we believe, that a country pact be made on the energy model and the fight against climate change in this Parliament, here. Let it not go against citizenship, a citizenship and also political parties that in their day said no to fracking, not to the gas wells of Armentia, and now it wants to say no to wind power stations and solar mega-plants that destroy the nature and life of the peoples. The truth is that we even call for the implementation of its own Basque Energy Strategy 2030, which in its annex first contains recommendations for environmental measures and imply that local energy production should be prioritized and promoted in a decentralized manner. Wind power plants and solar mega-plants are not projects close to places of consumption, nor are they decentralized. They are in rural areas, far from places of consumption and the generation is centralized in the hands of very few companies. The amendment proposed by the Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group calls for projects simply to follow the criteria of the Basque Energy Strategy. But it does not say anything about this annex first, which is where it is specified a little more. Why introduce this annex, then? Is it, in the end, not to fulfill it? Is the Basque strategy not going to be adapted to the requirements of the Climate Change Act? It can make us think that all this is nothing but marketing, pure marketing. A marketing that unfortunately we also saw yesterday with the presentation of the Basque Green Deal. In fact, in one of the amendments, it is surprising, we are asked to support this Basque Green Deal. Of course, they presented it yesterday, and today we should support it, without time to even analyze it. It doesn't look so good. Sounds, looks, looks like a roller, looks like a rush, once again. Roll of pulling out all possible laws and strategies forward in these four years, which seems to be easier than on other occasions. Another example would be the pattern of solar power. For the time being, we have Projects of 124 megawatts of Equirea and Equirie. The Krean-Mondragon team. We must see how it affects these projects by the laws and regulations of the climate. Two megaplanet solar, both of you joining the Mondragon team. In these projects, too, public funds have been established, but not to decregate energy, but to create monopoly. And it is also curious and draws attention to the fact that the monopoly, which we believe is generated, is somewhat disguised, has been somewhat disguised when creating Ekiola. It is a society created by the Basque Government together with, once again, the Mondragon Group to promote self-consumption. But the question is what model of self-consumption? Ekiola, since 2 March, has been extended to Ekiola Constructions and Ekiola Promotions, and in the latter highlights the participation of Repsol Electric Generation SL. Do we know if Repsol has entered Ekiola and what his intention is, his role in this new business? Because, of course, you might think that with Ekiola what is done is to help Repsol and the Mondragon Group compete with citizen energy cooperatives, and that the goal is that those customers who stop paying the electricity bill to Iberdrola or similar for switching to self-consumption start paying the bill to Repsol and the Mondragon Group for the management, maintenance and marketing of the generated energy. I don't know, it could be. And that's a question that's left in the air. In order to complete this energy model, reference should be made to the hydrogen corridor, to which I referred the previous time, in the past plenary; therefore, I refer to what I said on that occasion. With reference to this, the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group and the Nationalist Group means that the funds go to green hydrogen projects from renewable energy sources. But, of course, in this context we are explaining what this means is that we give Petronor and Iberdrola free funds to install wind power plants and buy electrolyzers at our coast to produce hydrogen and use it as raw material to produce synthetic fuels and fertilizers. So the question is, once again, why do we want to give our money to those multinationals to sell products that do not reduce CO emissions? 2 Is that what you're talking about? It's giving them money to do business, and the improvement for the planet at the end is zero. I've run out of time and I'll go on next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, Mr. Oterre, representing the EH Collect Group, has the word in order to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u3	Hello, good morning, everyone. I haven't seen you before, Mrs. Tapia. I'm glad to see you here. I went on with my attention when Mrs. Hatsied you, and, of course, last night I followed the presentation of Balque Green Deal with great attention. I told you I wanted to see you on TV the other day, and, uh, you made a whole TV show yesterday. Mr. Grivores, because today is not the time to interact with the government, I think we must decide whether we really need to give the climatical emergency importance to the climate and to the neurogenic transition from realism, or whether we have to make a little pedagogage or continue to deceive ourselves. I think the presentation of Basque Green Deal has a lot to do with deceiving us yesterday. We present a strategy connected with the climate, a supposed strategy, but there is no further account of it; we make a compilation of all the policies which we are now dealing with, and put up some kind of Green Deal's throat and let's move forward. I remember in 2019, when there were protests against climate change, you said here that the budgets you introduced were climate issues. Feminism was also there: the climate and prepotents. What was that? Exercise: to adopt the policy that always occurs, as opposed to the climate, or to present it as favorable to feminism. I have to admit that you have a lot of skill to train and introduce things. Now it's the same. Now the recovery is related to the Green Deal, both in the United States and in the European Union. So we keep doing the policy that we always do, and we pump them, we lazo, and the ya esta. But we have a problem: Instead of accepting our reality, instead of accepting our serious reality, we try to imagine that we're already doing things right, our career, our performance, our climate change, and that our transition has been very good. And it doesn't work. Yesterday, President Urkullu closed the case at Basque Green Deal, and I had two things that gave me my attention. One, you said, "Euskadi es una comunidad de referencia en la lucha contra el cambio climatico." Que no. "Que no es una comunidad de referencia en la lucha contra el cambio climatico, y moutha voy a dar aguos daguos datos." And the other was that the eupscal strategy is lined up with Europe. It's not true, it's not true. The instruments we have today, with energy and climate: energy, 32030 neurotic strategy, climate 50 strategy. We're talking about the Chinese PTS, where the objectives are, and so I'll bet they're not entirely compatible with the purposes of the European Union. We are obliged to deceive ourselves every day, and in every plan, to prevent our data from being very bad. First mistake. We always refer to the year 2005 rather than the year 1990, as it has been put into the Law on Climate Change and Energy Transition in the State or as it is done in all the planning of all European countries, including the European Union. For what? To make it appear that since 2005 we have reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 27%. Baina horrek arazo bat donka: ereference 1990 from her. It's a hell of a hell of a time. Is it zein da arazoa? 30 CO urtean 2 isuriak %9 eskas beat jaitsi diguula. We were emitting 20 million tonnes of CO 2 in 1990. Today, we emit almost 19 million tons. We've been down one and a half in 30 years. In the next 30 we have to get the rest of the 19th down. The rest of the 19th. I think that's what you have to say, and that's what you have to say. And the climate strategy says that in 2050 the retal extension will be 40%, that is, non-rectal sources will be assumed 60% per year. And we're saying that we consume the climate strategy of Europe, where we're going to bring the carbon wounds down to zero. I mean, what we're saying, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're talking about, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're talking about, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're doing, what we're saying, what And not even targets. The strategy of my being in the esta en vigor hoy nos esta hablando de 21 de consumo reovable final. La Ley de Cambio Climitaico y Transición Irgética que esta adændo hoy esta hablando de un 42%e con cual tenemos un serious problema. Y hay que decirlo asi, avale? This government, and the former governments, have not had the bet for the renewables in their franchise. They didn't have it. They had gas. Since the '80s, the last 40 years, there's been a gas almost the only axis of the public emergency policy, I'd say. Almost the only one, not the only one. We don't have a long-term retirement strategy, we don't have a climate change and a law for neurotic transitions. "Hace treslegis que anunció que aniba a testir una ali climatica, en la Legislature de Lózez." "Se presenceo aúltima hora, se sabía que no se iba a testir." "E la sigaente, la primera de Ukullu, no se presento." En la sigaente, la anterior, aúltima hora, al fine no se present. Y en state, se supone que se va a presencear. When this law, then, is adopted by the law of the innate transition and climate change, when the fatal strategy is renewed, we may perhaps begin to say, that if our ends are the same as Europe, we have no right to say so. We don't have the rights. The European Union is talking about a 55 % reduction in greenhouse gases compared to 1990. Germany has just adopted a new climate policy to advance that carbon neutrality to 2045. Carbon neutrality is one thing... The truth is, I don't know how we're going to get it. We have it, of course, very complicated. But it means, for an idea to be made, reducing to zero what is today the largest production in this country. If they asked us: "What does this country produce mostly?". For we can think, what do I know, then, cement, vans, cereal, concrete, arid for construction? No, no, The largest production in this country is CO 2 .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. CO 2 - No, no, no, That is, that we have to move the largest production in this country to zero, to virtually zero, and for that we have to make an energy transition – I don't know how to say – gigantic – let's leave it there, eta oraintxe betan ez donkagu ez boltzada nahikorik, ez lurralde-plangintzarik, ez instrumentu juridikorik. Madam, you have great confidence in the law of the climatic Spanish change, I do not know. We protected him too, and most of us protected him here. I'm 21. On the second point of the article, I have not the least hope that the solution will come from it. I think that if we are to form TS and reconnaisssance energy, we must here exercise a degree of internal exercise, here we have land tools, especially here we need a political commitment and a political consensus. I have said more than once that the main struggle or problem of the retal energy extension is in the expansion of the oolicco. And you've started badly when I told you, you're in bad shape. First of all, 12 years ago, this U.S. congressman promised not to make a sactorial plan of the Eolicians' territory, but now we begin, with the delay of 12 years ago. We're in phase one of the four phases. Too late. Two years, 27 months, concretely, are the same since we agreed on the Book of the Enigences. We're late. And in the meantime, there's a lot to do in the retal energy extension. But where did you go as your first chance? You've gone to the zoos, which are very instinctive on the side of the environment, into the regions of nature's protection. And when you did that, you blew up all the consensitious consensual consensus of 2009 and the consensus on the Mutulous planet of Araban. And that's not how it works. I don't want to impose anymore. We'll talk later. But you need to build a energy nation. And we're ready to do that energy national property. We need a lot of retal energy, we need them quick. But it must be clear that at the present day, with those projects, which are extremely unbalanced by the barrier of territory, and which are situated on the surface of the country, it is very difficult to make any popular or popular covenant here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u4	Thank you, Mr. Otero. The Basque Popular Group-Ciudadnos representative, Mrs. Larrea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u5	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, counselors. Look, we defend renewable energies and believe that their implementation is of vital importance for the active fight against climate change. However, the maintenance and care of biodiversity by the administrations involved in the implementation of these energies is also important. The motion presented by Elkarrekin Podemos comes to be reflected in the PNL that we presented a few months ago by the People's-Citizens Party so that no wind farm could be installed until a new PTS of renewables was carried out in Euskadi. And the request of that PTS was not to distract or delay the implementation of wind farms, but what we wanted was to update the PTS to new wind technologies that did not exist in 2002 and that now do exist. The sites before were unique, but now there may be more options, or not. But that PTS has not been carried out. Because, look, in 2009 this House reached an agreement to put aside the PTS of 2002, which was so much answered by the municipalities, by the parliaments and by the citizens. So what we wanted was to reach a new renewable energy plan with a broad social consensus. But what's going on? 12 years without PTS, 15 years without wind farms. And now, all of a sudden, we're in a hurry. And this reminds me of when you don't do your homework, the exam period comes and we get in a hurry and we want to deploy all the renewable energies to reach the standards that we're setting ourselves. Things don't work that way. I think it was vitally important to draw up a new sectoral territorial plan for renewable energy with the broad consensus that it needs, so that we do not go down the road of creating energy by means of renewables and on the road we would lose Montes de Vitoria, we would lose areas with important biodiversity, protected areas that we must never leave behind with the excuse of renewable energy production. This has to be accompanied. The fight against climate change must have a balance. A balance of biodiversity maintenance, landscape maintenance and renewable energy generation that does not generate more CO 2 to the environment. So, of course, as a result of that non-law proposal that we submitted a few months ago, because now it turns out that the other day, on May 4, Councilwoman Tapia says that feasibility studies are being carried out to locate more wind farms in Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. Let's see, this would have to be done by drafting a new PTS. In other words, study the feasibility of new wind farms in Gipuzkoa, Bizkaia and Álava, which are part of a new sectoral territorial plan, accompanied by the new technologies that can be carried out today. In 2002 windmill turbines did not have a technology as advanced as they now do. So what we do with our addition amendment, what we want to say is: you can study the possibility of modifying or updating the windmill park turbines that we have already installed in Euskadi today, to increase the energy production of the parks we already have, and let's actually see what the account is or what sum gives us or what percentage of renewable energy creation we have with today's technology. And then we'll see where we need to install new wind farms. The same applies to solar energy macro-plants. Okay, we have to produce solar energy, we have to originate solar plate energy. But, let's see, let's set up a new PTS that tells us where that location comes from best. Are we going to continue to damage Euskadi's biodiversity and protected areas? No, all that has to be accompanied and accompanied, and it has to be adapted. A plan 20 years ago cannot be the one that governs our lives today, we must be more dynamic; then, what I come to reproach, in fact, is that the duties have not been done, and now suddenly we are in a hurry and we want to do everything fast and running. And I think it is important that we bet on renewable energies and they will have us next door, but with a little calm, with things well thought out and without doing everything fast and running; with other administrations that have to give us the reports, that have to authorize the establishment of those parks, because we have to take care of biodiversity here and the landscape here, we will not be taken care of by other people. We, and we have to fight for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. Basque Socialists, Mr. Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u7	Madame Chair, President, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Well, once again we are bringing to this plenary an issue that can already be considered almost classic, with an approximate frequency of a debate or two debates a month lately. It's a subject that I'm passionate about, because it's so general, it's so broad, that, as the joke says, here everyone comes down and talks about their book, except me, that I'm going to talk about mine. So, well, I'm going to try to focus a little bit on the perspective that I have, because in the end I think we're each giving a shot to a different mosquito and cannons as well. Mrs Gorrotxategi has said that today is a very special day, because today at this very moment we are debating in the Congress of Deputies the final adoption of the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act. Today, therefore, many of the groups we are represented here will, with our vote in favour, push for a law that has come to stay. Today we can say that it is already a reality, today we take a giant step, a leap forward towards the new world that we want to leave for generations to come. Today the Socialist Party joins forces with Podemos-Izquierda Unita, with the Basque Nationalist Party and with Euskal Herria Bildu in the Congress of Deputies to sign black on white and stamped paper our commitment to a decarbonized and environmentally friendly world. It is a law that is the fruit of the firm socialist commitment that, as President Pedro Sánchez would say, is well worth a legislature. The Basque Socialists have talked a lot about this law on this very stand, in this very House. I was already doing it in the previous legislature, my partner Natalia Rojo, and so I have continued to do in this very legislature. A thousand times we have repeated that this law was the framework on which we were going to rotate all our actions. An institutional framework needed to successfully guide and coordinate the recovery process towards a stable, sustainable and carbon-neutral prosperity model. A law that establishes a framework of credibility vis-à-vis citizens and national, community and international institutions. A law designed to provide us with a 21st century energy system, decarbonized, decentralized and digitized, which ensures that our electricity system is 100% renewable by the middle of the century. A law that moves towards a decarbonized and secure economy, which implies responsible and consistent use of resources. No new exploration permits, research permits, or hydrocarbon operating concessions shall be granted. A new timetable for disinvestment in fossil energy products is proposed, renewable gases are promoted, annual targets for the integration of renewable energy and the supply of alternative fuels in transport are set. Unbreakable minimums of ambition are also established, which can be reviewed only and exclusively upwards. Emissions from the Spanish economy as a whole in 2030 should be reduced by at least 23% compared to 1990 and climate neutrality should be achieved by 2050. In 2030, a renewable energy penetration into final energy consumption of at least 42 % shall be achieved in an electricity system with at least 74 % generation from renewable energy sources. The Socialists maintain a position of climate ambition, political coherence, but also of courage and responsibility for decision-making. If we want to combine environmental sustainability and socio-economic viability, the commitment to clean energy is irrevocable. It is in this context that we must also place the energy policy developed by the Basque Government. Everything hinges on a basic principle that we cannot renounce, and that is that we have no time to lose. In this political context of change, of decisive transition, to which the expectations generated by the arrival of European funds are also attached, the Basque Socialists consider it good news that the Basque Government will finally discard past bets and redouble its commitment to clean and coherent energies with the context that I have just defined. We bet on a contribution in solidarity and balance with the climate objectives that we are committed to, provided that they are developed with guarantees in the protection of environmental impacts and that this is done with security and guarantee of protection to the natural heritage. Only if they comply with all environmental protection regulations will these projects be able to move forward, because, I insist, there is not much time left to waste. This is not the time to go back to timid speeches that support climate ambition, but that avoid taking politically courageous positions to carry them out. This is not the time for room politics. The challenge that we are facing is undoubtedly the greatest and most important one that our generation is going to face at a global level, and we have wanted to pick it up in the amendment to the whole tabled by my group, the Basque Socialist Group, and the Basque Nationalist Group. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the representatives of all the groups, especially Mr Grajales of the Basque Nationalist Party, who coordinated the negotiations with Mr Otero, Euskal Herria Bildu. I also thank, logically, Mrs Larrea, of the People's Party-Citizens, and Mrs Gorrotxategi, of Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita. In the end there could not have been agreement, but I think it is essential that it be included in the logbook that we have been very close to. I'm finishing up. I want to insist on a fundamental idea. The Socialists are firmly committed to all those projects which lead to a firm and determined progress towards decarbonised energy and are consistent with the commitments made at both the national, Community and international levels. But we also make clear the existence of a red line that must not be crossed: respect for and submission to the environmental measures contained in the legal framework. I have already said this, but I repeat it again so that no one has any doubts: only if they comply with all environmental protection regulations will the different projects come forward. And I'm done. Perhaps, at some point, we can reopen the debate on the past, see the trajectory and coherence of each of the groups over the last few years. See where each of us and ourselves were, for example, in 2009 or 2010. Socialists have never been afraid of history. But now, in this debate, in this one that brings us here today, what has to be made clear is that we are not prepared to lose ourselves again, once again, in sterile debates. The Socialists are not going to contribute to paralysis by analysis. We cannot allow a wager like the one we have ahead to be paralyzed once again. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u8	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians, Mr. Grajers, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Well, I share, first of all, Mr Alonso's reflection. He did it with a certain enthusiasm. I actually do it with a certain point of sadness. Because there are days when it seems that you may be able to reach the country agreements to which Mrs Gorrotxategi referred, and end up in a succession of monologues in which, on the part of the opposition, the prophecies of calamities alternate, in which we seem to live in the most hidden garbage dump (sic ) of Western Europe, with you have done nothing and with a series of grandiose declarations as if they had all the formulas and magic wands to transform. And surely, in these 40 years, not only the government, the Basque Energy Agency, etc., will not have done everything right, but they have not done everything wrong either. And Mr. Alonso was talking about history. Of course, and here you have to listen: "you ten years ago did not have wind energy on the frontispiece." And I'm not going to answer, because I don't want to make history, but I want to look forward. But, really, there are things that hurt. Where did others have wind power ten years ago? Not on the frontispiece, either. Because there are things that, with the recent history of this country, really bother and hurt. So beware of such accusations and such grandiose claims. Because, in this country, there are people we have missed on many occasions, and on other occasions we have missed them. And in spite of that, progress has been made. And from the energy point of view, you will say what you say, but this country is not recognized by anyone of how we picked it up in the 1980s. Because it seems that renewable energies have been here 220 years, even some have discovered them before. And this country 40 years ago depended on oil, it depended on coal. And the turn you've been given is to recognize. And not recognizing it and limiting ourselves to criticism is a tremendous historical injustice, tremendous, as if everything had begun with us, as if life had begun in this legislature, had begun in the last ten years, since the 90th, of the 95th. I don't care. You have to be fair with history. And from there, I don't think it's time to keep putting sticks on the wheels of everything. Because in this country every time a new policy has been attempted, there have been sticks on the wheels. And now they're telling us about the frontispics of the Greek temples. Man, please. That being said, it will be my turn to talk about my book. I understand Mrs Gorrotxategi, in her first speech, that this government has never presented its energy policy, which she did not know. Listen, but if you have even told us about Annex I, then I think this government's energy policy is well known. In any case, if you don't know enough, I'll give you a brief summary. The energy model that's maintained by the Eukadian E2030 Power Strategy responds to the objectives that agree with the beautiful energy that the European Union encourages. But he says: "No, no." Yeah, the ones that match it. Power efficiency and retractable energy are our destination now. Euskaki has set up a page of the traversal to ease the environmental impact of our activities, to reduce the local consumption bill, and to strengthen the competition of our corporations. The guidelines of Euscal power policy have been transmitted to the people in the direction of the Escal agency of energy, namely, from the Basque Organization of energy, by insisting on the development of large projects and small projects in recent times. Here, the same thing: "Mega projects, mega projects, that's all you do." Well, I'm sorry, but I know that's a lie, or, like Rajoy would say, "That's not true." There are large or medium projects here. There are projects here for self-consumption. There are local co-workers here. There's a project here with local co-operatives. And there are, it's true, private public alliances. Always with the company. Carajo, with the corporations in that business. Who do you think they're going to do it with? There are companies that have a measurement, and there are other companies that have a different size. The measure was also to the size of obsessions. In any case, because of the goals set in our strategy and a great challenge of the demands of the legal sphere already established, we believe that it will be necessary for the support of the agents who have the power to decide their energy on the future. I'm not going to give you any more information about what the strategy is, because I think it's well-known. In any case, if not, in the second intervention, I can repeat what the Lehendakari has raised here on numerous occasions, or the Councilwoman herself, answering her questions. Neutrality in emissions. He tells us about neutrality in emissions, forgiveness, neutrality in emissions – don't cheat – it's not that it's going to emit 0 in 2050, but that what is emitted is equal to what is fixed on plants, sinks, etc. We're not gonna let humans emit CO. 2 We're not gonna stop producing, Mr. Otero, we're gonna have to see how we balance it, and you know it. They're asking us for two years of moratorium. I don't know if the weather emergency is even days, odd days, Thursdays don't play, now we're going to wait two years. We are going to wait two years, today we pass a law in Madrid that is the manna. But the best thing is that Mrs Gorrotxategi makes us the textual comment of our amendment to justify her refusal even to treat it. He says no: "And you also ask us to give our trust to the Green Deal." No, no, no. Look, the Basque Parliament does not ask you anything, in this case – I suppose the Lehendakari, the Tapia Councilwoman – to align her objectives with those of the European Green Pact in order to move forward in a model of fair and sustainable development through Basque Green Deal. You, in this case, we are not asking for anything, we have not asked for that support, I would have liked you to have supported us, but you have not spoken to us, you have come here to explain to us point by point, almost point by point, what they did not like about our amendment, which I believe, at last, would not have had to have had so much problem. "It urges the Basque Government to draw up the sectoral territorial plan for renewable energies with the greatest possible political and social consensus." Oh, no, but it's that you write about "social," but the social thing is I, do what you do is invalid. "It urges the Basque Government to respect and submit to the environmental measures contained in the current legal framework, as well as to open a process of adaptation – oh, miracle – to the Climate Change and Energy Transition Act of the Government of Spain", or Mr López de Uralde. I don't know what Mrs. Rivero has done these months. But we don't like that either, I mean, we're saying we're going to do what we're asking and he doesn't like it either. Fourthly, "we urge the government that the European state or Basque funds – on the other hand, I do not think that they will reach, that is, all the funds that they can reach – should go to the fight against climate change and the energy transition to be used for renewable energy and energy efficiency projects according to the criteria of the Euskadi Energy Strategy". We have failed to put "including Annex I". So that's not a good point either. And number five, "calls on the Basque Government to use European, state or Basque funds for hydrogen-related projects to obtain green hydrogen from..." Well, neither. This is the transformative left, the one who doesn't pick up the phone and is not worthy to call but comes here to say that we have to make a country pact, the one that tells you that not without talking to you, the one that doesn't agree with what you say, even if you say what they say and more, but put on the boots, negotiate and have made today the start of that country pact, nor do we talk, eh, Mrs Gorrotxategi. Because you've come here, like Umbral, to talk about your book, and mine ends here for the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u10	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. Passing on the answers, madam, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u11	Thanks again, ma'am. Well, I've left it without saying it before, and I think it's worth while to tell you how things went, or how the discussion went, that's what I thought to say earlier. It has to do with this hydrogen marketing that is making, precisely, the oil & gas sector. For what? To receive public funds to perpetuate fossil energies. I wanted to draw attention to a report by the Corporate Europe Observatory, which warns us that there are millions invested by the gas lobby in Europe to influence and take advantage of the hydrogen wave and try to glue the grey hydrogen, that is, the one produced by gas. But they also want to reuse the oversized pipelines and pipelines to get to our hydrogen-mixed gas homes, and follow the gas business for many more years. Of course, yes, indeed, there is a Basque energy model. We don't say there isn't. Precisely, what we are saying is that it seems that now, when things have to change, because state law has changed, what we cannot do is that the government's goal in energy policy is, precisely, to continue with gas, betting on gas for another 30 years. And that, as it cannot now explode the gas wells, because it is not possible, that the gas business continues to exist through hydrogen. That's what we mean. Indeed, this would mean that the Basque energy model has nothing new, and that they are the same causes of oligopoly and climate change that could be given European and Basque funds, in order to continue to monopolize the generation of renewable energies and stretch towards the impossible the interests of the gas lobby. That's the point. That is why, yes, we think it is very important to reach that pact, that country pact. In the motion introduced by us, we present another of the most energetic examples: In the hands of the people and the corporations, it's not in the hands of a few companies. That's why public funds should be looked at by councils, citizens, and middle-class corporations to make self-consumption and energy projects. All this without endangering the environment and the natural landscape. Why don't we start from the cities instead of doing the eolious central or the mega schemes in the area, which are close to the consumption grounds? We believe that we should start by taking advantage of the solar potential that exists on the roofs or roofs of the buildings, pavilions and urban spaces of the cities. Companies like Iberdrola, with 3.6 billion profits, can certainly afford the extra cost of designing projects in cities and buildings, instead of going to what is cheaper, rural soil, and not thus destroying the environment. We believe that buildings are one of the keys to the fight against climate change. And, just as there is a transition from the combustion vehicle to the electric vehicle, it is also time to stop building new gas-dependent homes in Euskadi. 100 % electric dwellings, with passive house efficiency standards and photovoltaic panels installed for self-consumption from the zero minute, should be started. It's important that we don't let another 30 years go by to stretch the gas business. Yesterday a figure was given in ETB: 8.1% of the population is very concerned about climate change. So, given this concern, which is a widespread concern of the citizenry, extending the life of gas, extending the life of gas another 30 years does not seem very sensible, to be investing public funds in hydrogen, mainly grey, generated by gas, which is the subject, neither as raw material for synthetic fuels or fertilizers, nor to continue generating business for gas companies. So let us rethink what our energy model is and what we must do or what we must push with public funds, and what it does not deserve to be pushed with public funds. Talking to private companies is fine, it is necessary. But let us negotiate the energy model in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Hatch. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u13	Mr. Alonso, briefly. I told him and I'll tell him again. No room politics, no paralysis by analysis. I ask you to answer me by leaving the salon policy, please: What do you plan to do with the map of the Miteco? The Miteco of the PSOE said that two of the sites that the Basque Government has chosen, and that you are defending here today, have extreme sensitivity and it is not recommended to do so. And he was telling me that this will go ahead with environmental regulations. Yeah, yeah... It will go ahead with environmental regulations and social license, because this, if not, does not go forward. You know that, and the PNV knows that, and we know that. Yellow grajales, "great statements." What's going on? Ez doa hortik. It's an almost desperate call to abandon self-congratulation. I, above all, give you data. More than 90 % of external energy dependence, less than 10 % of renewables and less than 10 % of CO emissions 2 in 30 years. That's the data I tell you, and that data is incompatible with self-congratulation. "Y le doy otro dato, porque apelba los 40 años de trayceria." Do you know what the year of the most oil was burning in our country? It wasn't '70s, not '80s. It was 2019. It was 2019, all right? I do not say, therefore, that nothing has been done, but that it is the great challenge we have before us, and that it requires several compacts of another kind, and some institutions of another kind. I'm talking about failure, yes, but I'm talking about collective failure, and I'm included and we're included, and I think we have to include all of us. That's right, you have to differentiate, responsibility is not the same for everyone. And whoever's been in command of the ship for the past 40 years has more responsibility than he hasn't been. Let's be clear about that. And more so when we still have your recent fall – from you – from the horse from impulse to gas extraction, which fortunately we have left behind. Palos on the wheel, talking about sticks on the wheel. Yo, do you know where I see a giant stick on the wheel? In all the projects they have submitted. That's the real big stick on the wheel right now so we can move forward. He's screwed up a bird. It is assumed, and put it so in the basic document submitted to public participation, that a sectoral territorial plan in the field of renewable energy is necessary to meet the objectives of renewable energy, yes, but also – and it is underlined – to ensure that this deployment is carried out in an orderly, planned manner, respecting the interests of citizens and in accordance with conservation values. In an orderly and planned manner. Put on the table seven wind farms in Araba, several of them in areas of special conservation, is running in an orderly and planned manner? It's just that you've put your feet up everybody. And this is the stick on the wheel to get us to some port. We have negotiated late and badly with Podemos, I will ask you to vote separately on the points, because there are some things we will support. We will also support the additional PP, because we believe that repotence is possible while the PTS is being processed. Baina, PTSak aurrera joan behar baldin badu eta energy berriztagarriek aukera bat izan behar baldin badute, you have to get off the horse. And it's just that you're gonna end up doing it, it's what bothers me the most, which in the end happened with the gas. I mean, you're not gonna be able to get all that going. We have negotiated and we have not reached an agreement for one thing, which has fabric. We were not talking about moratoriums, because we believe that right now we can't talk about moratoriums, we said that we don't go ahead with those projects that have a severe negative environmental potential. That's what you haven't admitted. You say that even if it has a severe environmental potential, it goes on. That is why we have not reached an agreement. And it's not me, it's not EH Bildu, it's not the crazy left, it's not the intransigent opposition. Kuartango City Hall: "The huge environmental and landscape impact and loss of biodiversity associated with the park, Arkamu, does not compensate for the necessary production of renewable energy." Ruled by the PNV. Agreement of the Municipality of Iruraiz-Gauna, governed by the PNV. Point 2: "The stoppage of the Montes de Iturrieta project is called for". And it makes a relationship, I insist I don't want to abuse, but, Erroeta, Trokoiz, Alaitza, Egileor, Arrieta, Mezkia, Laminoria, Kontrasta, Gauna, continues, continues, continues, 18,500 allegations on the table. Please, I mean, please. Order. LHENDAKARIAK : Eskerrik asko, Otero jauna. Socialists, Mr. Alonso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u14	Thank you. Well, I didn't intend to intervene in the replica, because, actually, I'm standing on antibiotics and painkillers. I mean, I'm not on my coolest day today, but, well. You know, Mr. Otero, I'm always trying to answer you, another thing is that you like my answer. You'll be back with the map of the Miteco. The other day I remembered those times when Mr Egibar presented the programme to Mr Egiguren; in this legislature you will be the one to draw the map of the Miteco constantly. Well, I think you have the same flaw that I have, and it's that every time we get something new we like to mess with it immediately without reading the instruction book. I admit I have that vice too. But, well, in the case of the map of the Miteco – unfortunately or unfortunately I have spent quite a lot of time in bed this week – and in a bit of a mess I realize that, in fact, the map of the Miteco also has an instruction book. Good. And the instruction book says exactly: "it is necessary to indicate that this model – this map – does not exempt from relevant environmental assessment." It goes on to say: "model values do not prejudge the outcome of an environmental impact statement". But above that, he explains: "areas with lower environmental sensitivity do not directly imply that any project located there will obtain a favorable environmental resolution; – but he insists – just as a project is located in an area with many environmental conditions does not mean that it will necessarily obtain an unfavourable environmental resolution." He concluded: "that is, the results of the model should be taken as a recommendation to facilitate an initial idea for the public administration to carry out the environmental assessment of the model." It is true that you too have fallen from the horse, and lately you make truths about what comes from Madrid, who would say so. I, these days, remembered what Joseph Roth said, that Archduke Francisco José, the previous Austro-Hungarian emperor, loved armies. He was going crazy. He loved watching them parade, all at the rhythm of the Radetzky March. He loved his almost circus, colorful uniforms with feathers, sands and glitter. But, paradoxically, what he did not like was to send his armies to war, because the old archduke said that there is always the possibility of losing in the war. That happens a little bit when I hear some of this kind of speech, doesn't it? Very flowery, very colorful, very structured in theory, but that then hardly..., that it is nice to see you parade along May 1st Avenue p'arriba and p'aba, but then, in the time of facing the war of day-to-day, of real politics, of the need to make decisions, that is to what a government is dedicated to and is to what this government is to, because they always end up withdrawing because they are at risk of getting dirty their uniform beautiful. Speeches that, as Don Julio Caro Baroja would say, are like coffee, which excites and excites but does not feed. I think it's time to take courage and assume it's time to make decisions. And that we will have to be brave, to leave these speeches as a room, I insist, to make the necessary decisions that come forward and that are strategy for this country. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u15	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Eubertarians, Mr. Grajers, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u16	Yes, thank you again, Mr. President. Mr. Otero, don't take this the wrong way, that I don't put it in your face. Instead, I thank him for the opportunity to negotiate. I thank you for the intellectual exercise we have both been doing for three days; I am convinced that it does not fall into a broken bag. I am convinced that we are planting, that we are planting seeds for the future, and that one day it will be fruitful. I don't know if we'll fall off the horse, like Saul of Tarsus going to Damascus. You guys, apparently, always get it right. I agree, they often get right every time they fix the first thing, for example with wind energy. So, well, give it time, that things can always get better. Social leave is important. But eye, he's in danger. He says, "Of course, we didn't come to an agreement because we weren't allowed to do that." Sure. We do not admit that, because for us it is clear that with severe impacts the company that has applied for the permit will not have an environmental authorization. And precisely, the allegations are part of the order and the environmental guarantee procedure. It says, "We've filed 100 allegations." What he has not said is where: the most progressive government in history, which is the one that has to decide at the end. 100 allegations. They have also submitted allegations. And besides, entratu ez bazaarete, zuek, hemen, nire eskubira eserita zaudetenak, gure udal batzuek ere alarzioak aurkeztu dituzte. Oh, surprise, even the Álava Foral Chamber has filed allegations. Sure. Sure. If I always tell you the same thing, you see us as if we were some sort of Spectra that meets and does... No, look, here's a company, it's public and it's private, especially in the private part. The public part is there because it has an interest in developing renewable energies. The private part is there because it has an interest in investing and getting a profit out of it. Because companies, big or small, Mrs Gorrotxategi, are dedicated to that. Each to its own extent, I tell you, and each company to the extent of its obsessions. And they're going to that. And then, what's going on? That we're the city halls. And we're the deputies. And there's the matches. And there's Lopez de Uralde. And there's Minister Ribero. Each on his or her site, to decide under what conditions it can be done, under what conditions it cannot be done. I suppose the Miteco and her map and the minister when they arrive will say: "You have asked here 24. Here and here and here can't be done. It can't be done." And then, the company will have to decide. Of the 24 I've ordered, they let me do 12. Does it leave me? I don't get it? Do I? Don't I? And we believe in that system. And I also think we shouldn't be the only ones, because it says, "Well, we're accused of putting sticks on the wheels, when the circus has been mounted by you, because you've applied for five permits." We've set up a tremendous circus, a lot of people have been raised... 18,000, I think you said, of 320,000... a lot of people have been raised because we have applied for five permits to start doing a serious renewables policy, once and for all, in this country. I don't know, lehendakari, no Egyptian duzuen. Whether you're doing it wrong or not. Because I don't think the formula is too complicated either. You have to travel one hour by car, because the one we have assembled here, with five permissions, when in Nafarroa at this time 93, 93, is trembling. 93. You, chito; you, chito; you, chito. I don't know why we do it so badly, or what we do so badly. Or what differences there are between the western and eastern Euskadi. And finally, so that there would be a little bit for everyone, the last legislature and a few earlier there was a parliamentarian sitting more or less there, who said he didn't understand being called neoliberal as an insult. He declared himself liberal, liberal on a full letter. So it is only to tell you that I have not just understood your amendment today, Mr Gil, Mrs Garrido, gentlemen of the People's Party. I mean, we're liberal on even days, odd days, at breakfast time, we're intermittent liberals, half-pensionists liberals, because really this thing of telling the government to tell a private company what it has to do – eye, which seems very good to me – I don't know if it fits very well into liberal thinking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u17	Thank you, Mr. Grakiles. We're not going to argue and vote for Euscala Populara-Ciudadnos. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 40; votes given, 74; supporters, 33; contrary, 41; Abstations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u18	So it's not accepted. We'll vote for the original text of Mrs. Masquerade's Motion. Dots. First vote, number one, number two, fifth, and six points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 40; votes given, 74; in favour 12; contrary, 41; Abstations, 21. white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u19	So they didn't accept it. After that, we'll vote for points 3. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes at the meeting are 39; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 33; the opponents are 40; abscessions, 0; white, 0; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u20	So they didn't accept it. Next, we vote for the entire EH Collect Group correction. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 40; votes given, 74; supporters, 27; contrarys, 41; Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u21	Not accepted. Finally, Eucabertians and Basque Socialists vote for the full correction of the teams. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 40; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 41; the contrary, 27; the abstainments, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u22	Integer correction has been accepted. Before we continue, the seventh point is transferred to another. Second point on the subject list: "Mution, introduced by Louis Ignacio Gordillo Pérez, the popularo-Ciudadans, in order to ensure that the funds will arrive in the spirit of reform which has been sent to Brussels. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Gordillo, representative of the Basque Popular Group, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Member of the Government present, ladies and gentlemen. Last week a question was brought before this House to the Councillor for Economic Affairs and Finance, to Mr Azpiazu, Mr Pedro María for his friends, concerning the reform plan sent to Brussels by the Spanish Government and, above all, the way in which it was managed. The fundamental concern that this Parliament, our group, had, and I understand that, above all, a large part of the components of this House and of society itself, had to do with the way in which the management of this very important plan had been carried out, which is composed of a series of measures that must be projects that are certainly transformative of the economy, and which not only hangs the Spanish and European economy itself, but also the well-being, no longer ours, but of future generations. Essentially, the European Union's own rules state that before establishing projects to be financed from European funds, what needs to be done is to reach agreement with the local and regional authorities that exist in the Member States. What has happened is that, as the Councillor confirmed up to twice before the plenary of this House, that has not happened, that has not happened. This is not just a question of courtesy, a formal question. The need to have to talk, to agree certain measures with the autonomous communities in an essentially federal state, such as Spain with a high level of decentralization and with competence on the part of the autonomous communities, is very important. Why? Because, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, nothing is free. And in this case the funding that can come from the European Union will be conditional on a series of very important reforms. They are reforms that have to do with areas of competition For example, with the tax issue, in which in our case outside parliaments have very important competences. Labour issues too, in employment policy issues there are also autonomous competences. Very important internal market issues, of course. In other words, the Spanish Government was actually acting here to represent Spain, to represent the Kingdom of Spain, but it had not done that coordination beforehand, which we will then have to implement. Because then in this House and then before all of you, ladies and gentlemen, the government is going to introduce bills to amend the current system. It is going to be necessary for us to adopt in this House some measures, important measures in order to be able to implement these reforms and to ensure that we comply with our part so that this European funding can arrive. This was the essential concern of this parliamentarian, of the group, and I understand that of a large part of the members of this House. That is why, following the inquiry and the explanations given by Councillor Azpiazu at that time, he presented himself to the Registry and we are presenting to this House a motion that includes basically three elements, which we shall now turn to. These three elements have to do, above all, with the agreement of the Autonomous Communities, and of course with ours, with Euskadi, the way in which these projects are to be implemented which will come from this European funding and, above all, with respect for their own competences and the joint design of these plans for the control of European funding and the policies for the evaluation of projects and public expenditure. That was, that was in essence. To defend this proposal, if I may, ladies and gentlemen – although it is not here, as Mr Alonso usually says – it is very important to establish the context well in advance; I will divide my intervention into three main points. First, what is the context, what has been the attitude of the Government of Spain. It does not seek so much criticism of the Government of Spain, which also, but above all, learn from the actions of the Government of Spain. Secondly, the proposal that is being made or presented to this House. And thirdly, what should not be done, a look at the future, what should not be done when European funds are being managed, especially when it is part of a structure in which all its members have to be perfectly coordinated, central government, autonomous governments and, in our case, also outside parliaments, including local authorities. Look, basically, on the first point, the attitude of the Spanish Government, there are two main points. There are two main points in which I believe that the Basque Government itself, at least Mr Azpiazu, did or did give me reason the other day. He also gave it to me too much, which started to worry me, because he was giving me too much reason, but, anyway, I think he was right. Basically, they're two issues. The first one. The reforms that have been sent to Brussels, the package of reforms, proposals, commitments to change certain issues relating to employment, the internal market, pensions and so on, are certainly generic and manifestly inconcrete. There is talk of a labour reform, and there are continuous probes of various partners that make up the government as to whether the previous labour reform is going to be repealed, if it is not going to be repealed, how, if we are going to finance the cost of the repeal of labour reform with European funds, therefore, charging this policy to structural expenditure. The issue of pension reform is also something that needs to be analysed and not specifically defined, as institutions such as the AIReF have said at this time. The tax reform in which the balance between income and expenditure is not sufficiently well defined, because when one spends more or wants to spend more or raises taxes or carries out major structural reforms, which has not been adequately explained either. I'm not saying it, I could say it, but the AIReF says it. And the second argument. The first is the lack of implementation of these measures which have been sent to Brussels. The second argument would, of course, be the lack of dialogue and the need to agree on public policies when defining the investments and reforms of this programme, which has also been named Spain Puede, which certainly violate what is laid down in the European Union's own regulation. As I said, even twice the Economics Councillor confirmed here that there was no knowledge of the reform plan by the Basque Government before it was sent to Brussels. This circumstance violates article 18. It could, by the way, be an element at the disposal of any affected person in order to bring a possible judicial issue, a possible judicialization, unfortunately, of the proceedings. Secondly, the arrival of European funds is put at risk. And it's necessary. We have been very critical of the way in which all this has been established, in the way in which projects have been managed and designated and chosen by the Basque Government. We have been critical and have said so in this House. But we're not there anymore. That point has already passed. We're critical. But now it is about saving the situation, that the European funds can come and that, above all, a series of necessary transformative policies can be carried out for the economy, which is something that the Spanish economy and the Basque economy find difficult to do, genuine transformative reforms. And there is, of course, the competition issue. Spain's competitive tax structure has not been taken into account. Not only with our case, with Euskadi, with the outlaws, nor with Navarra, nor with the specific regime that the Canary Islands can have, etc. That was the attitude, first of all, of the Spanish Government. Secondly, what is the proposal to this House? A proposal that has finally been agreed and agreed, through a compromise amendment, with the groups that make up the Government. I thank Mrs Berrojalbiz for her interest and for our efforts to reach agreement. Because, essentially, the amendment he tabled on behalf of the Government and the one we tabled were substantially identical, or at least responded to the same need and the same common criteria. Firstly, as I said, it is very important to agree on the criteria for implementation. It is very important to respect the regulation when it comes to establishing a process of consultation with local and regional authorities. It's not just a deference, it's not about notifying what's going to be done, it's about agreeing. Why? I repeat, because we will have to make reforms, we will have to change the legal system of the Basque Autonomous Community in order to be able to implement these reforms, which condition the arrival and release of funds by the European Union. That is why this consensus is necessary. This would be a good example of co-governance rather than empty words that then lead to nothing at the time of truth. It is also necessary, of course, that the commitments be real, that they can be implemented; but, above all, it is very necessary that a series of measures be put in place when European money is handled. And in this the European Union is tremendously demanding. Anyone who has managed European projects at any level – in my case, that has been my experience – knows perfectly well that when it comes to managing European funds, in fact, the European Union is very demanding, as it should be, with public money. Moreover, it always calls on the parties receiving grants or disbursements of funds not only to establish policies of incompatibility, conflict of interest or detection of very important cases of corruption and fraud, but also of evaluation of very important public policies. Because as certain public policies are being implemented, if we do not evaluate them, we do not know what the real result is and therefore we cannot learn from our own mistakes. That is why we understood that it was important to include this issue in our proposal. So far the proposal before this House, which, I insist, has been agreed with the two groups supporting the Government and which essentially reflects what was contained in the original proposal. Thirdly, what should not be done? Let's learn from the mistakes. What should not be done came to us recently in a report, very recently, the AIReF itself; probably one of the other groups that intervenes mentions it. What has the AIReF established? By the way, an independent agency: it was so independent that the president of the government decided to appoint the former president, but of course, with the new president, the truth is that it also remains equally independent. First, the Stability Plan – sets out the AIReF report – does not contain any concrete or sufficiently concrete measures or plans to bring the debt back to the path of sustainability. In the case of Euskadi's specific own debt, it is true that it is at levels below national levels, but logically we also participate in the common national debt, which also ends up affecting us when calculating economic forecasts and so on. It is therefore an issue that affects us all and this is not at all resolved in that plan which the Government has sent to Brussels. Secondly, the Government gave everything to the recovery plan. We here have criticised the Councilman, in my opinion rightly, because he trusted the budgets and also very high growth. In the case of his counterpart in the Government of Spain, he gave it almost everything to the recovery plan, which they have even included in the budgets themselves. And there's one very serious thing about this. According to the AIReF, the principle of neutrality can be violated, because it is intended – or seems, as the AIReF itself has analyzed – to impute expenditure from 2020 to 2021 with European funds, which cannot be, which is not allowed by the regulation of these funds. The AIReF report – and this is already an interpretation, but I believe that most, at least in the internal sphere, I believe that all your ladies and gentlemen here can share it – is in the background also a bomb in the line of flotation of institutional advertising, not to mention institutional propaganda. It is good that governments establish and communicate with simple words and, above all, that there is a certain margin for communicating in one way or another less shocking what they intend to do. But, man, I believe that the national government in this has already gone out of line many times. The AIReF says that such important reforms are not concrete; it says, above all – and this is very important, one of the main points – that there is a high risk of turning many costs associated with European funds into structural, and that this is a line that must not be crossed, that is, that European funds cannot be used either to pay current expenditure or to establish structural costs that are going to be permanent, because what can happen – the AIReF has found – is that when this is over, when the implementation of these funds is over, we can have a more structural deficit point after we have received EUR 140 billion. That's what it can't be. I insist, what cannot be done is that after all this effort, after all these projects and their implementation, in the end we end up having more structural deficit than we originally had. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal before this House today seeks, without further urging, the Spanish Government, basically, to three things: firstly, to take into account, to agree, since it did not want to agree with the autonomous communities, the way in which the projects were to be selected; because it did not want to agree on the reforms that were to be made, at least, to agree on the way in which the European funds will be implemented. Very important, and this is essential, we must take into account, we must include the institutions, the autonomous communities, in our case the outside parliaments, and the local authorities, we must include them in these mechanisms for the exchange of information, because they are going to have to carry out the reform. And the third point, and with this in mind, ladies and gentlemen, is that we must also take this opportunity to introduce the culture of responsibility, to the European one, into public expenditure and, above all, in the evaluation of public policies. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you today to support this compromise proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u24	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Passing the corrections to the teams, the representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Otero, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u25	Good morning, at noon on the way. I find it almost heartening, Mr Gordillo, that you, as a representative of Citizens, as a citizen, that so much political gap tried to take place in Spain on the basis of criticism of competences, taxation, coupon... Do you remember? They're the coupon guys. The truth is that it is very good to see you do this iron defense of our powers and our taxation. I do not know whether it will be a question of adapting to new times or swan songs, but well, in any case, that part is welcome. If we consider the course we have made about the European funds, it is evident that this is for us from the strategic point. The modification and the future of our hundred sociational phenomena are, as we have said, partly connected with the responsible use of these funds. It would be the principal object of their being able to adapt themselves to what they should come to, and, as far as possible, to anticipate what they ought to be. Hence we have made constant proposals about management, from Europe to the level of municipalities. And here, in our opinion, the proposals concerning the precise lines and propositions to be applied. Some of them were very precise. And without going far, next week, in this drawing room, there will be a discussion about the need for a gigasphere for electric cars. Yet this process has its echo and effect in all the institutions, and we do not agree with the present plan. In fact, this motion comes from an interpelation. The Voice looked at Madrid and looked at the lake. But then, in making demands, the motion is directed only to the government of Madrid. That's why they agree with you. That's why they have no trouble making deals with you. He'll have to explain what PSE-PSOE does in that sandwich. But he'll have his reasons. We don't think that's the frame to do what's proposed. We think PP-Ciudados looks at the agenda from Madrid and Madrid. It is curious, in fact, that an inquiry that had two lines of argument or attack has become one, to look at Madrid, and not at Lakua. But you, Mr. Gordillo, in the interpellation spoke here – a little from the session diary – and said, looking at Lakua: "It could have been better. The initiatives that have been presented are superficial. Discussions on the Euskadi Next projects have been lacking. There has been a lack of competitive competition on the projects to be presented. There has been a lack of prioritization of projects, a lack of debate. The definition of projects I think is very objectionable in general: mistakes, asymmetries, lack of coordination, sectors that remain out." And he said to them, "The Spanish government is doing with you now the same thing that you did here with the opposition." And it even pointed to concrete measures. He spoke of the inclusion of experts, on the proposal of parliamentary groups, in the elaboration of the plans. And we could agree with a certain number of accompaniations that were made there. We've accused him several times that we've been in a rigid process here. But it is more difficult to understand that we should look at Madrid only now, after we have said what we said. In fact, considering that we're all here in Madrid, Congress, with our own parliamentary team. We'll have to tell the government of Madrid in general. We could suggest a spotty thing, but since we've done reviews to the Madrid government and the government here, we're only looking at it? We have things to say in Madrid, too, and of course we've discussed the plan. And, to be honest, there's very little to say about the interviews between you and the government of Madrid, because no one here has ever told you about it. He said, in answer to the interpelration, that he's planning to do it once in three months and that's the law of budget. The law will say, but it has not been done. And about the Spanish Thu plan in a few short accounts. It seems to us that he is made according to the subsidies of the state. And its situation and here it's not the same. The money comes from a fast gas obsession. And I agree with Sub-Azu when he says that with the introduced configuration the strategic projects will be difficult to start. Being invested in the budgets of 27,000 million million years of this year makes it necessary to use them in haste, and to use the danger in any way. In that context, projects that require multiple years of budget will have no clear space on PERTE or strategic projects. That's the risk. There's a problem even in distribution of funds. Here we have a new centralization, in which the greatest part of the distribution of the sources of the Ministry's calling will be conditioned by it, even in our jurisdictions. And I agree here also with what Subauzu said. He said: "En las confeéncias secrilles de los Ministryes se trasadandos cescindos dedidas de las inversions a relave de encomentedas de gestiendas de gtión, inclus para poíticas públicas que soncias exclavas." That's it. It's just that meeting is asking for power here, and there's a lot of intentions that don't show, or it didn't show, or the parties that support it. In the classification of money, España the next project is as dark as we expected. I am not going to begin to penetrate here into the distribution of the furrows, but a point: Substudantly said that the next mechanism is not thought to be available for regular expenditures. You also said "principio de adiolidad." He didn't think he'd cover up the budget holes. Eta egia da, batha badago zulo handi eta zehatz bat, éta horri buruz ez diot inori txintik ére entzun: abiadura handiko trenaren sarea. Eta diru asko doa horra. 6,000 million eurotik gora. Eta Pricek abisatu zuen. Jaurlaritzak lehen mourns AHTa sartu zuen. Eta Pricek esan zuen: "ez, Europako dirua ez da horretarako". Eta esaten zouen: "In any case we can try to make the state assume that investment as its own". That's what I was saying. It's happened. If an expense, that of the high-speed network, which has been running for more than 25 years is not an ordinary expense, you will tell me. About this, however, I don't think anyone will say anything. I don't think anyone complains. There is also a great deal to be said about the Reformations, in different directions and senses. We'll see what's left of the district attorney's accounts, connected with the trade, about the pensions. For the moment the form has been stopped, without this definition. And it seems that we want to postpone the socially injurious discussion of the aspect. And according to what is decanted, according to the direction of the reforms, we shall make decisions, as has always been said, without protecting the reforms that may lead to restrictions. And since many of them are to come by laws, all of them will have something to say. It is true that in the provinces we have not found much quantum inequality. Furthermore, in Madrid, at least, the unions have been sitting on tables. At Madrid, at least, when the decree of PERTE was negotiated, the possibility of a political negotiation was made. That didn't happen here. Here the absolute majority or the majority is absolute, I don't know anymore. And what he does finally is that there isn't a real popular project here, como pretende el Gobierno Vasco. It's a lot of phone calls, but it's no big deal. In the interjection Mr. Sub-Azu talked about it five times, five times. Literal: "All parties present here must join forces for a good outcome in this ambitious process. We are willing to work with all of you intensively. I encourage you – I told you, Mr Gordillo – once again, you and all the groups in the House to join in this enormous challenge ahead. Because we believe failure is not an option." Good. We take the floor, we take the floor. And we bring back the request for the creation, as a matter of urgency, of a strategic office, you can call it whatever you want, where we can sit and talk about this collaboration that Mr Azpiazu is supposed to be putting us on the table. Azpiazu said that they have been able to read things in the media, as if they were not telling them firsthand, not like us, to see where we are learning. And he was also talking about the deep concern about the formula that is being chosen by the Spanish Government for the design of this. Really? Is there any concern about the design being done in Spain? I'm not saying there isn't. But I mean, what do you have to bring? Who has done the design of the projects here? The consulting companies that have just been sanctioned by the CNMC for cheats? Who made the design? Beyond the projects that have been presented by the municipalities, parliaments, etc., who has been giving shape to all this? We propose the creation of a strategic office, a framework for dialogue to work the proposals intensively, as Mr Azpiazu said. It's in your hands, anyway.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u26	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u27	Thank you, President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen. On 30 April, the Spanish Government forwarded to the European Commission the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, which set out the overall objectives and coherence of the plan, based on investments and reforms and its relationship with the 30 components, complementarity, implementation, governance, consultation and control process, the audits of the plan, and the plan also carried its macroeconomic impact and comparison with the investment baseline scenario for evaluation within two months. Yesterday the news jumped that for the second half of July Brussels intends to approve the plans sent by the different states. It is clear that this investment and reform plan must be implemented with a threefold objective: to support in the short term the recovery after the health crisis, to promote in the medium term a process of structural transformation and to lead in the long term a more sustainable and resilient development, from an economic, financial, social, territorial and environmental point of view. The new Community funding instruments NextGenerationEU provide an extraordinary opportunity to develop the plan and thus counteract the impact of the pandemic on investment and economic activity in Spain and the communities that make up it. If the plan is approved, Spain will receive up to EUR 140 billion in transfers and credits in the period 2021-2026, which will join the other instruments provided for in the multiannual financial framework to boost investment and reforms in priority areas at European level. The plan focuses on the first phase of implementation and details, in addition, investments and reforms for the period 2021-2023, mobilizing nearly €70 billion in transfers from the recovery and resilience mechanism, in order to boost recovery and achieve maximum countercyclical impact. The plan is structured around the four transformations that the Spanish Government has placed since mid-2018 at the centre of the economic policy strategy: the ecological transition, digital transformation, gender equality and social and territorial cohesion. These four axes are projected in 10 high-capacity lever policies on activity and employment, already in that first phase of the plan. And they are developed in 30 components, resulting in 110 investments and 102 reforms. I will focus on the three areas raised in Mr Gordillo's motion: compliance with the Regulation establishing the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, the Reform Plan and the plan's control system. The Basque Socialists believe that the Spanish Government has complied with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 February 2021 establishing the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism when drawing up the plan. It has complied with all and each of the 75 recitals and with the 36 articles and the 8 annexes. The plan itself details the participatory and consultative processes carried out by the Government. They have also been incorporated as a central element in the development of the plan, the participation of the various public institutions and political groups, social actors and the business fabric, under the conviction that only through dialogue and collaboration can reforms and investments be designed with the potential to transform a country. Therefore, in order to facilitate the process of participation, various consultation spaces have been defined in order to gather the proposals and opinions of all relevant actors, social actors, autonomous communities, local authorities, parliamentary forces, institutions and organisations representing each sector involved, potential companies benefiting from the plan and also, of course, citizens as a whole. Of all that there are forums. Chapter 4, in paragraph 452, specifies the dialogue with the Autonomous Communities, a sectoral conference of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan has been established, with the participation of all the Autonomous Communities and chaired by the Minister of Finance, with the aim of establishing the coordination mechanisms of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism; it held two meetings this year, on 21 January and 19 April. The various ministries have activated their respective sectoral conferences to establish a direct channel of information and participation of the autonomous communities in the decisions of the plan; seven have been held. There have been 23 sectoral consultations in the high-level forums and advisory councils for the discussion of the various components of the plan. There have been 15 invitations to show interest, as a procedure, in addition, similar to that of consultations held by the European Union, to involve precisely the productive fabric in the design of the plan. The Basque Government in the field of automotive, for example – I said in a previous debate – has presented itself to two expressions of interest. The structural reform agenda set out in the plan is based on the specific recommendations for Spain within the European Semester 2019 and 2020. And it is aligned with the strategic agendas deployed throughout the European Union. Of the 102 reforms, 20 represent different actions to strengthen and modernize the main areas that condition the economic structure and also the economic trajectory of the country. The 30 components of the plan reflect the transformative reforms that will reinforce the impact of investments, concrete in regulatory changes, modification and revision of administrative procedures, or even concrete actions by different administrations. Most reforms are horizontal in nature, and some are specifically aimed at promoting the modernisation of tractor sectors such as trade, tourism, the agri-food sector, health, automotive, the aeronautical sector or that of public administrations. As regards control and audit, as mentioned in Chapter 4.6 of that plan, and in line with the reply given by the President of the Government to Mrs Arrimadas on 14 April at the Congress of Deputies, in order to ensure proper management of the plan in line with the highest standards of control and audit, a comprehensive control and information framework is set up, in addition, from the very beginning with the European Commission. The control system is completely different from that which has been implemented in the structural funds and in the rest of the European shared management funds, because the plan itself separates itself from the management of these funds, and it is a control system of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism that will rest on the control systems that already exist in the public administrations. Thus, the plan explicitly elaborates on the internal control of the executing body, the internal control of the independent body, the ex-post national audit and control regime, audits of payment requests sent to the Commission, audits of measures to prevent, detect and correct fraud, corruption and conflicts of interest. In this case, moreover, it will be based on the methodology envisaged in the area of control of the Structural Funds on the issue. Audit of double project funding related to linking expenditure to the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism. Audits of legality and regularity of expenditure based on national control systems, in addition to coordination in the fight against fraud. The plan also establishes who are the authorities responsible for controlling the plan and the means allocated for its control. Leaving these three clear areas, Mr Gordillo, and in the spirit that his initiative will serve to promote and coordinate actions that will promote optimal development, both of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan and of the Euskadi Next programme, we have proposed this amendment and we have reached an agreement, which ultimately aims to demonstrate – as the Government says – the full compatibility between the classification of the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan, with its ten lever policies and with the 30 components, with the eight components that make up the Euskadi Next programme. considering, moreover, that there is compatibility between the seven emblematic areas established by the European Union and the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan and that Euskadi Next collects the relationship between its eight components and the 30 of the plan of the Government of Spain, reflecting the existing alignment. It is true that the elaboration of the plan has been complex, that its implementation will be a historic challenge and that it will test the administrations, the social agents and the productive fabric itself. I was asking Mr Otero what role the compromise amendment leaves us. Look, sometimes it's about not throwing more firewood, but pushing for the strengthening of the mechanisms of dialogue so that we can negotiate, so that we can agree, because we all play a lot in this. The aim is to shape the way forward and guide policy towards agreement, dialogue and, above all, negotiation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. I thank you, Mr Gordillo, for having the opportunity today to discuss a crucial issue for the future of our country. We are also discussing this at a key time when the European institutions have to take a decision on the proposal sent by the Spanish Government and decide whether or not the requirements for access to aid are met. I share many of the expressions he has used: consensus, collaboration, participation, listening to the institutions, to the nearest ones, which are the ones that will then have to manage these programs. The funds of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism, which are part of the Next Generation initiative, are the most relevant and ambitious instrument of all those included in this plan. It had never before been seen that the Community budget had been used for these purposes; it was a milestone in the construction of the Union. The COVID-19 pandemic has hit the European Union coinciding with Brexit and without the recovery phase 2013-2019 having succeeded in correcting the path towards inclusive and uniform growth. While in the previous crisis the European response was insufficient, exacerbating – it seems to be – its duration and depth, on this occasion the diagnosis has been successful and the instrument in its design is up to the challenge. Hence this turn also reminds me, or reminds us, I suppose, of more than one, at the Hamiltonian moment in the United States, since this opportunity could be a starting point for greater interaction, as Hamilton did when he unified the debt of the territories in the first compasses of the United States. And in this scenario we find an initiative, Next Generation, which, as its own name indicates, seeks to lay the foundations for the progress and prosperity of the European Union for the next generations. And hence the orientation of this initiative: meeting the challenge of the energy-ecological transition to reduce climate change and mitigate its impacts. Also the challenge of digital transformation as a lever for the modernisation of the European Union. And Euskadi has the tools to move forward on this path: it is competitive, has an advanced industry, invests a lot in R & D and tractor sectors, and has a model of public-private collaboration that is working. Euskadi is today in an advanced exit position, and we must take advantage of this position for transformation. A successful execution of the Next Generation is an opportunity to boost – I would say – the third modernization of the economy: the first, that of 59, after the Stabilization Plan; the second, with the entry in 86 in the then European Economic Community. The funds and their destination make it possible for the MRR, which is not yet part of the structural funds that shape the European cohesion policy, which could be another management alternative that the Basque Government has already proposed, to exercise as a real lever of cohesion while preserving the single market. Taking on the dual transformation mentioned above, Spain has called the plan that it has delivered to the European Union as the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan Spain Pode. The term "transformation" thus appears in the frontispiece of the plan correctly, because in our view that is the key: transformation versus recovery. Recovery through all the programmes that, for example, the Basque Government is implementing to prevent economic-financial collapse and to float out. However, this European plan must be a future plan for the next generations and must serve as a lever for transformation. In our view, in order to improve this division and that this transformative character is not in question, the Spanish plan must be designed and agreed with the autonomous communities, complying with what the MRR Regulation itself establishes, particularly in its Article 18.4. That is why the amendment we have tabled – and this has led to an agreement with the proposing group – calls on the Government of Spain to agree with Euskadi on the proposals and implementation of Euskadi Next, particularly considering the Euskadi competition framework. And using this line of co-governance and co-design, Euskadi raises several ideas, such as asking for the distribution of funds by ministries, which will further intensify the presence of industry, R & D & i and the role of universities as agents of transformation; requiring greater consideration of the smart specialization strategies promoted by the European Union; requiring greater consideration of the public policies developed within the framework of the competences of the autonomous communities in defining the investment lines and the actions that are being known, because, basically, the non-consideration of these policies may end up violating the principle of additionality, also provided for in recital 20 of the RRM Regulation, as already mentioned. More contributions: to clarify the implementation deadlines granted by the European Union and which allow implementation until 31 June of the 26th, or the definition of regional PERTEs, which are expected to be included in the next version of the Euskadi Next programme to be approved this month, as already advanced by the Sailburu Azpiazu in this Parliament, because these projects, although not in the value chains of state PERTEs, do meet the other requirements of PERTEs in terms of strategic and transformative character, global competitiveness, cutting-edge technological development, etc. For this reason, and for the contributions and improvements that would be required, we tabled our amendment, with a view to greater collaboration, consensus and co-design with the Government of Spain. Because, otherwise, there would be the risk, right, also concludes AFI in its recent report, of not taking advantage of all European funds, of over-focusing in the short term, of losing the train of technologies of the economy of the future, of not being able to associate the private sector and invest insufficiently..., because we have to be able to separate the grain from the straw. And everything will depend on the solidity of the institutional framework, on the decision-making about what and how to reform, on what to invest resources, on how to address this institutional challenge of management, coordination, co-design and co-governance. Above all, the role of regions such as Euskadi is crucial. Last Monday, Eneko Landaburu mentioned in this Parliament, on a day on the future of Europe, that Euskadi has prestige in Europe for his trajectory, for his proposing capacity; he has a clear endorsement and credibility and position in Europe. We must therefore strengthen our strengths, share ideas based on the solid experience of the Basque Government and take advantage of synergies; because without real co-governance there will be a risk of losing the train. Because countries such as Germany, Poland or the Scandinavian countries will not be willing to share the debt as on this occasion, a unique occasion that will also serve to strengthen the European project. We must put all our efforts and work into the best design, implementation and implementation of the funds, and for this Euskadi must have a fundamental role. I'd like to think of it today, and I think that's how it will be, that all the teams here want us to keep away from this train, we want to move forward and look at the future with optimism. So let's work together from a proposal view of improvement, for the sake of the generations that will receive our society's economy, our industry, and our witness. We have an excellent opportunity to build a more green, digital, and solidarian Basque, to transform into a country. There hasn't been any precedents in Europe, and we must be very well placed. That's what the work of making contact with the social and economic operators is about. If we all place our hands, experience, and thoughts on the table, we will assist in positive and constructive ways. In this first round I have attempted to explain our position with a positive message, and in the second round I wish to continue with the several groups, especially because Podemos has not yet published his position. After that, I'll make my remarks on the second round, especially for Mr. Other, because I don't have time now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Together, Monsieur Podemos-IU, Mr. Soto, your word is de.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u31	Hello, good morning. Mr Gordillo, first of all, I thank you for the opportunity you have given us in bringing an initiative of this kind, because basically we will have the opportunity to talk about an issue as important and strategic for the country as the European funds are. But let me tell you that the truth is that what remained of the initiative in the transaction – although the original was almost the same – is not that it offers great news either. The representatives of the parliamentary groups who support the Basque Government have already told you, and I will repeat the same in this regard. What is called for in this text is already being done. In that regard, we do not see any great basis for the issue. Then I will go on to report it, but not with as much profusion as the representative of the Socialist Party has done, which has already said virtually everything. I tell you that the instruments that allow what you ask for are already in place. Then, in any case, I will talk about what concerns Euskadi and what it has to do with European funds in relation to Euskadi. It is true that European funds have been set up as one of the strategic and future tools to shape the pillars and levers that will allow us, in addition to recovering what is lost, to transform the productive fabric of the country at the state level and also to strengthen – perhaps what is not done in consideration of the Basque Nationalist Party – those elements that exercise leverage in the economy, both Basque and Spanish. We still have time, it is true that it has sometimes been considered that European funds can serve more to increase the loss of GDP in the coming years, and not so much to make a transformation of the economy for the coming decades. In any case, it must be said that the importance of European funds is obvious, and that in that sense our role here as well as in the coalition government will seek to be sufficiently responsible to have a high level of vision and not to remain in compliance with the budgetary balances of the coming years, but to go a little further. Otherwise, it will, of course, be a missed opportunity. Let me also say, Mr Gordillo, that I find it somewhat surprising or somewhat cynical that those political formations that come here permanently to insist on the need to lower taxes, which often speak of activity from the public as a permanent expenditure that does not contribute to improving the economy and that the public should not have a leadership in economic recovery then come here to stand as great advocates of an economic recovery plan from the public. In this sense, we want to make a parallel, even if they have absolutely nothing to do with it: a contradiction with what happened in the 2008 crisis and how the 2008 crisis was addressed by the group-sharing political formation with you, the People's Party. It is true that in the early years the Socialist Party also participated in these dynamics. But, in any case, let us remember the black Fridays of cuts in the councils of ministers and how they dismembered the social state and what that has entailed afterwards in a period like the current pandemic and the difficulties of the productive fabric to get ahead. The way in which we intend to tackle economic recovery as a result of this crisis at European level allows our group to be happy that it is not in the same terms as it was in the past. I am not going to go too far on the mechanisms contained in the plan presented by the Government of Spain, because they have already been mentioned. But I would like to say that, in principle, in view of the establishment of the Sectoral Conference on the Recovery Plan, as well as sectoral conferences by ministries and also the various expressions of interest, we believe that there are mechanisms for participation. Anyway, they could be more than there are, of course, but there are. On the other hand, as regards the question of the third point, which has to do with co-designing control and audit elements, the same applies. In principle, IGAE will conduct these audits through the National Audit Office. The representative of the Socialist Party has already explained this to him. Already going to the question of Euskadi, we do believe that, in the end, we could share quite a few elements that the Basque Government is trying to promote in its negotiation or dialogue with the Government of Spain. But we believe that the truth is that we do not take too much account of our political formation in Euskadi. There was a full monograph – if that wasn't the space for the government, it could have been another – and none of the 66 resolutions we tabled were accepted, none. I think there would have been some that could have been accepted. We criticized the model of municipal participation in the identification of the strategic projects of Euskadi, as it denoted an obvious territorial asymmetry. On the other hand, we do believe and share with the Basque Government, of course with the Basque Nationalist Party, that strategic projects could be promoted or defined with a leverage rather than budgetary balance and to save the fall in GDP resulting from the economic crisis. We do offer ourselves to the collaboration and that the model used by the Basque Government and the parties that support it in working on the issue of European funds is different. With regard to the proposal that they have finally negotiated, our group will vote in favour. But basically you will vote in favour because that is what is already being done. In other words, we could not vote against it because, basically, it challenges the coalition government and the mechanisms for its participation. And with regard to Euskadi, basically, he doesn't say anything. Then, in this sense, well, we will vote in favour of the initiative. And with regard to EH Bildu's proposal, we will abstain, because even considering that there must be mechanisms at the level of EH Bildu that allow us to do something, at least, similar to what is being done at the level of the State, because we believe that there are, in addition to that proposed by EH Bildu, more forms of participation. In any case, as we have done before, we will abstain because we cannot share this initiative with regard to the office, namely, that the same mechanism is not being applied at the coalition government level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u32	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Passing on the answers, Mr. Gordillo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Well, thanks to all the groups for their interventions. Basically, all of you have focused, all groups have focused on the issue of investment. And I believe that none or almost none has made any reference to the subject of reforms and, above all, the guarantees that this proposal sets out for reforms to be carried out. I do not know whether they do not like to talk about the subject of reforms or whether they do not like to give me reason, as Mr Azpiazu does like to give me reason from time to time. This proposal was drafted in order to reach the greatest possible consensus in this House and, above all, indeed, to send a message to the Government of Spain, not in my words, in the words of Mr Azpiazu: that there has been no communication, a previous consensus, an agreement prior to putting forward the projects to be sent, nor the reforms. It's just that this isn't about investment. Of investments there have been communications and such. But has there been a communication, there has been a negotiation, there has been a consensus, not on investments, that there has been, half-pensionist, on reforms? There hasn't been one. There hasn't been one. Mr Azpiazu has said this twice, that there has been no such thing. That's why I'm surprised what Mr. Soto tells me that this is already being done. Well, it's not done. I don't know if you have focused only on the part of the investments. But this is not done, it has not been done in the part of the reforms. I insist, this is serious. What's really serious is this. Now everyone is obsessed, perhaps the groups in this House mostly also, with the issue of quantities, etc., the projects, how we are going to sell it or how we are going to sell it to their different voters. But the important thing here is to see what this is going to look like in the long term and what these necessary reforms are going to be. But, well, today at least they didn't call me... Well, I've been called cynical, funky, yeah. You didn't call me neoliberal, Mr. Soto. I almost miss him. Well, I've been called neoliberal before. I think they've changed. I don't know if you meant me before for Mr. Garrido. I'm Gordillo. Garrido is another, he's a judge who I don't think the Basque Government likes very much. But, come on, I declare myself liberal, no problem at all. In any case, it does not say anything about Euskadi, as Mr Soto has said. Man, you said you'd support her. I'm not going to push too hard, see if you pull the support. But, man, of course it's said. Competence is said to be respected. Mr. Otero says you find it exciting that I now come here defending... Look, I've always defended a federal structure, a structure of a sensible, rational division of competences, where its members collaborate with each other, don't each go their own way, which is a large part of the origin of the problems we have here. And when you want to talk about taxation, we'll talk. You already know that the taxation you understand is revolutionary taxation. But, come on, whenever we talk about real taxation, we'll talk about real taxation here. And that's the proposal. We have been very critical, to be completed, of the process of establishing or implementing what the projects were going to be and what those investments were going to be. We have been very critical everywhere; thanks to our intervention in the European Parliament, the issue can be carried forward a little bit. We've been very critical. As we have already seen and experienced what this lack of consensus implies, this lack of an investment agreement, this proposal is presented, which is precisely to prevent what has happened to investments from happening again with the programmes that will come next, or with the initiatives that will come later from structural reforms and legal reforms that will have to be established and that we will have to go, as Mr Otero has said, through this Parliament. And here we will have to approve some of them, that the outside parliaments will have to approve others of them, in the Congress of Deputies and in the Senate because we will have to approve others of them. That is how it works, and that is why this initiative is presented, but I sincerely appreciate the support. With regard to the amendment tabled by Mr Otero, agreeing that a system of control and management, in fact, and control of how this is to be carried out, expenditure and also the reforms that will have to be established, the proposal of the party table..., I understand that it has to be an independent authority. Another thing is that there is a communication, as I said the other day, indeed, and that the parliamentary groups can be conveniently informed of something as important as this. But that is why we will vote against, although I think it is interesting that an initiative should be presented at another time in this House precisely to establish a way of how a control system is going to be, a control mechanism that is truly independent, both of reforms and of the implementation of investments. Many thanks to the groups for their support. And that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u34	Thank you, Mr. Gordillo. Collect EH, Mr. Otero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u35	Well, this is what we've got here. The Poppular Party-Ciudadans shook the Spanish Government; delighted EAJ, because the focus is watching Madrid, because nothing passes here; and the two parties who support the government of Madrid will vote for it, after they have defended it. Okay, well, we'll fight the government ourselves. We think this is what we're doing here. Full Spanish policy. All of a sudden in this Parliament, it is only a matter of deciding whether the Spanish Government is doing it well, badly or regularly in relation to European funds. And, in passing, we escaped from what we are doing, because it goes Euskadi Next trial that we carry. Kuriosa da, onartuko den proposemenaren lehendabiziko puntuan is talking about the European Next Regulation and about Article 28 and Article 18, which talk about how these plans have to be made. And it is very curious, because they have left the recommendation, or have left the Regulation cut, it is very significant as it has been done. Mr Azpiazu said there that there was no role in the design of the plan. And Article 18.4 of the Regulation, in its paragraph (r), says that there must be involvement of local and regional authorities, but not there, the Regulation does not go there, the Regulation says: "local and regional authorities, the social partners, civil society organisations, youth organisations and other relevant and relevant stakeholders". That part does not interest us, gentlemen of the PP-Citizens, EAJ, PSE and Podemos, who are in the same? That part doesn't matter that much anymore, does it? That is, to have local and regional authorities. All right, let's count on the Basque Autonomous Community, when it comes to making the plan, of the rest already, if that. Where are the youth organizations?, where are the trade union organizations?, where are the political organizations in the Euskadi Next process? Ain't nobody gonna say that? Are we going to leave the Rules cut short? But I'm not saying it, uh, everybody's saying it. Fedea's report seems particularly interesting to me. Fedea, the Fundación de Estudios de Económica Aplicada (Fundación de Estudios de Económica Aplicada) makes considerations with regard to the Spanish Government, but they apply to all governments, and so it says, "As a general consideration it would be desirable for the selection of policies and projects to have a cross-cutting nature to the parliamentary arc. Funds are expected to be received over a six-year period, and the impact of these programmes is expected to be much longer, covering different legislatures and governments. It is therefore clear that the political representatives of the citizens have a responsibility to establish agreements on the definition of programmes and policies within the framework established by the European Union, with the commitment to maintain them. It is not logical that the application of the important European funds with the aim of transforming the economy can be an act of government, of no government." That is just the opposite of what this government is doing, and also that of Spain, yes, because in the end they are falling into the same mistakes, in some less, but basically the same. And it's no good to have a permanent colaborción watcho y paraí no tengo. We can't, we can't. We have made our proposals constantly, and Mrs. Berrojalbbiz will now come down to answer me for two minutes before, but the last time she wanted to talk, she'll come down to beat me. But it doesn't matter, we've been making proposals all the time. On the 17th of March, Maddalen Irart gave Mr. Urkullu a document, where we examine his "Next Document," and propose to discuss some synthesis of sytesis. Invitation to answer. Where's the answer? Where's the answer? And you announce in the interpelation, Mr. Subazus announces that there is a "Next II" project, that it will come in May and be recorded. Are you going to raise opposition suggestions without sitting down to talk to the opposition? What is this? What is this? I don't have time. It's a shame. But instead of making a call for interaction, interpelations, or replies, we wait to discuss the exact proposals that are laid on the table by the Basque Country. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u36	Thank you, Mr. Otero. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u37	Thank you, President. Let us see, Mr Gordillo, your inquiry, you said, was an initiative of empathy and solidarity with the counselor and his team. And he distributed to the councilman and his team terms such as: "disorder, misconception, misstep between plans, partial information of the Euskadi Next, the initiatives of Euskadi Next are superficial, only generalities, lack of debate, lack of definition in the projects, have gone to his ball, have not prioritized projects, uncoordinated management of plans, asymmetrical errors, lack of planning, forgetfulness of sectors and a governance of the plan that leaves much to be desired". If you want to empathize with me, I would beg you, from affection and respect: forget about me. With regard to discrepancies, it is true that European funds, because of their significance, are a very complex issue, both in challenges and in investments, and in reforms that they entail, both for the plan and for the Euskadi Next. Are discrepancies going to arise? Yeah. Is there going to be a diversity of opinions? Yeah. Is there going to be rocks? Yeah. But this would have to remain, in my view, in the bodies of participation and consultation, because that is where everyone is free according to their interests, understanding that the autonomous communities and public administrations are defending the interests of the citizens of their respective territories. That is where opinions should be freely expressed, and consensus reached after, say, a period of dialogue and negotiation. You said, "There are relationship problems." Faced with such a challenge, it is normal that different visions of what is best for each territory may exist. But we must never lose sight of the general perspective of what these funds really mean, without, of course, renouncing our legitimate aspirations for the economic development of Euskadi as an autonomous community. Mr Otero replied in a debate on European funds: "They do not intend to take on a role that does not belong to them. We're not gonna confuse plans. The budget project incorporates a sufficient management model, transparency, guarantee and information flexibility, so that the use and maximisation of funds can be followed up and rigorous parliamentary control". With the permission of the adviser, Mr Gordillo, I apply the same formula, I apply the same formula. Regarding governance. Look, the different sectoral and territorial councils represent a co-governance framework in which these criteria for the implementation of projects contained in the compliance plan should be agreed, always, because this has been done since the first minute, always based on the parameters set by the European Commission in the European Regulation of the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism on the participation of local and regional authorities. That system can certainly be improved. You'll have flaws, you'll get better. But to put it, as you proposed, Mr Gordillo, in your proposal, to comply with the Rules of Procedure seems to me to be a lack of respect for the Government of Spain, it would be a lack of respect for the Basque Government and any government of an autonomous community. Public administrations do not fail to comply with regulations. You cannot claim in your initiative that we should swallow on the subject of complying with the Rules of Procedure. Of what? I believe that I have shown you in my speech that the Rules of Procedure are being complied with. Mr. Gordillo, your group sometimes says, "We want to help." Sometimes I suspect it's around the neck. In this case it is clearer than ever. You and the group to which you belong, the People's Party, went to Europe to show their discomfort and to point the finger at Spain so that it would not have the opportunity to go to those European funds. His group, the People's Party, did it. And today's news is that there is an agreement between the People's Party and the European People's Group to demand more controls on Spain than on any other state. More controls to Spain than to any other state. Are you really thinking about Spain, about Spanish citizenship? Are you really going to teach patriot lessons by putting sticks on the wheels so this doesn't work? Before such a historic challenge to deal with a pandemic, are you really going to point a finger at a country saying it is failing? Where are we, where are we? And that you declare yourselves autonomous, as Mr Otero said, in the end, "things to see, dear Sancho, things to see" and what we have left, and what we have left. Good. I wanted to finish very briefly, Madam President. It is true that this plan, the Recovery, Transformation and Resilience Plan will be developed in many bands. And if we do not really understand the complexity and the need to have the European Commission's approval even to move a role, we will not have understood that here we are not only playing the economic recovery of a State, of a country. We not only play the economic recovery of an autonomous community. We are playing with the future of Europe, because this is not just about the pure and simple economic recovery of countries. This is because we are playing strategy, political and economic geostrategy in Europe to deal with situations of invasions as it is happening with China, with the United States, to truly make the European continent, to deal with a challenge that arises for the first time, which is the pooling of a debt of 75 billion euros put on the table. That's what this challenge is about, if we don't understand it, we won't have understood anything. Keep putting sticks on the wheels.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mrs. Berrojalbuz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. You know it's not easy to manage the pandemic. It has not been easy for anyone, neither here nor in the rest of the world; we have all been affected. And it'll be less easy if you press the disunity instead of the encounter. But there are formations that, unfortunately, are only comfortable in the scenario of confrontation and criticism. Maybe because they don't know how to play another role, because they don't want to take responsibility for it, because they're just trying to get us off the board. But that's not what you decide, it's what citizenship decides at the polls, and that's why we're where we're each other. Mr Otero, in their amendment they ask to bring a joint Basque agenda to Madrid. For that is impossible today, because they have made it very clear that with us, with EAJ, they do not want anything, nor water. We have been defending the Basque agenda for a long time in Madrid, and it is the agenda not of this party that I represent, but the agenda of the citizens. And that schedule starts here. You have to play at home first before you go to Madrid, as you have done with a generosity never seen before. Pero Zierta cyceramente compando EH Biltiene una intensea disputa contra el Gobierno Vasco y el Parto Nacionistia Vassco. And I suppose you'll say yes, or you'll see the point of it after the discussion. He talks about co-governance with European funds, but they have previously accused the government of acting alone, of not contrasting with anyone and of favoring friendly companies. Put aside these conspiracy theories, for this is not the path to dialogue and the agreement that you so proclaim. They are well aware that there has been an arduous work of contrast with all the institutions and agents involved. In fact, a vice-counsel specifically for the European funds has been set up, a management, there is an interdepartmental committee, intense work with the outside parliaments, with Eudel, with the trade unions, with the Confederation of Entrepreneurs, with the social sector – for example, today afternoon there is a meeting with the third social sector of Euskadi, Sareen Sarea – or with the ESC. The Basque Government has also met with Euskal Herria Bildu to analyse European funds. With you, Mr. Otero, and you were present at that meeting, at that explanatory meeting. And this is complying with 18.4.q of the MRR Regulation. And here, in this house, I continue to debate monographs, appearances, questions in full, the forecasts of appearances in the Budgets Act. Eta bai, legea betez, irakuri ondo 33. artikulua, aurrekontuen 33. artikulua, eta ikusiko duzu konpromisoak betetzen say it. Because our style, and that of the Basque Government, is that of intense and discreet work, of less circuses and more realism. Do I remind you of your example of shared work on this topic? To present to the media in December a document that they did not even put in the hands of the Government, and despite this, the Government analysed it. And I'll tell you more. Of the 28 lines, ideas, of the aforementioned document, the public policies of the Basque Government and Euskadi Next contemplates them all. But, in addition, Euskadi Next contemplates them quantified, calendared and planned, which is what Europe demands. Therefore, in this dynamic and work-plan the request for a strategic office, sincerely, I do not think it brings any value. But, in any case, if so relevant was a strategic office, have they presented in Congress, which is where the plan is being cooked, an equal proposal? I reply to you, Mr Otero, that I have looked at you: no, you have not presented any of this. I fear that EH Bildu is not very clear about the role of the government and the role of the parties. The Government is responsible for designing, organizing, informing this Parliament, deciding, contrasting with the rest of the institutions and defending the projects before the Spanish Government. And it is up to the groups to ask, push initiatives, control and also present alternatives; but it is not up to us to manage, design or execute. The government has done its part, and EH Bildu? In Madrid they voted in favour of the decree on the management of European funds, why don't they also stand by the government and support it in defending Basque projects? It seems that it is always the same question, why in Madrid yes and not here? Learn to think more about this society, in Euskadi, and not what is right for you as a party; it will be better for all of us. Because it is time to join forces for and for Euskadi, to remove complex, because by agreeing with the PNV, who wins is Euskadi. Look at the Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita group today, a collaborative attitude, which I hold your hand, Mr. Soto. Hori da bidea. Once again EH Bildu goes hand in hand with Vox. But I did not want to finish my speech without issuing a positive message of union, even more so when we are dealing with the much-awaited European funds and when last May 9th, Europe Day, and recalling Robert Schuman's statement, the Conference on the Future of Europe was officially inaugurated. Since the rejection of the draft European Constitution in 2005, there has been no opportunity for reflection like this on what Europe wants for the future. Eta gu gizakiarekiko, duintasunarekiko and aniztasunarekiko eresponduan oinarritutako Europaren sorrerako balioak indartuko direlako esperantzaz, gagoz, kooperaziorako bideak zabalduz, non gizartaren eta herritarren mobilization funtsezkoa izango den. Eta hor egongo da Euskadi, skumen legegilea dueen eskualde gisa, Europar Batasunaren proyektuan gure bidea aurkitzeko ahaleginean eta Europa berriari laguntzeko, part-hartzailea, anitza, irekia eta batua izan dadin. To face the crisis, the demagogy and the radicalisms through which the old continent passes. The solution is not through the dismantling of the Union, but rather through more Europe, through genuine political, fiscal and banking union, with more transfer of national sovereignty to the common institutions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u40	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u41	Eta, amaitzeko, a Europe in which Euskadi is a political subject on an equal footing with the rest of the present states of the Union, seeking a more social and more sustainable Europe. And the regulation of European funds is a rather fortunate mixture of both ideas. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Berrojalbuz. Together, Podemos, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u43	Well, the surprising thing about all this is that an inquiry that did not speak practically anything about what was in the negotiated text has ended up talking about what is in the negotiated text, which, as I said in my first intervention, basically refers to issues that the coalition government is already developing in the Government of Spain. Therefore, the People's-Citizens Party achieves little more than a rhetorical and discourseal exercise in terms of criticism of what the Spanish Government is doing, but then, de facto, in terms of material, of the text that is going to come forward today, nothing appears. The truth is, it's a little surprising about reaching out and picking it up. Finally, this has been necessary for the PNV, as has been said, to say that from now on it is going to work with us on this issue. If it had been so easy, of course, we would have done it sooner. Let us review what has had to do with the management of European funds in the previous months, or with the strategic plan that the Basque Government finally sent to the Government of Spain: the summer leaks in the media, then Mr Otero's inquiry, then the monograph, but before the monograph a presentation of the councillor, fruit precisely of the monograph, if it did not come to be, just as there would not have been an appearance and then, yes, a conversation, also fruit of the desire of our group, and I suppose also of EH Bildu, who previously did, to know the projects sent to the Government of Spain, a private conversation. That is, basically, the framework of discussions that we have managed to have, at least our group, on this particular issue. In any case, welcome are the good times if this initiative of the People's Party-Citizens allows, from now on, in this which for us and we are strategic ends up being managed a bridge of collaboration and a channel of dialogue. Because, of course, it will be good for us in this country, and it will also be good for what has to do with the exercise of dialogue with the coalition government, with the Government of Spain. In this sense, all our predisposition, as I said in my first intervention, so that, in something so fundamental and that it will condition the lives of all of us for the next few years, we can find places of encounter between all the political formations that are represented here. And in this sense, we welcome that invitation and offer. That it is real and materialized and that it does not end up being another mermaid song as we have heard on other occasions from the Basque Government or from the groups that support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u44	Thank you, Mr. Soto. End of discussion, we're going to vote for the half-correction signed by Basque Populara-Ciudadans, Basque Socialists, and Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 40; votes given, 74; in favour of 53; the contrary to 0; Abscession 21; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u45	So we have to accept the half-path correction. Third point in theme list: "Provide the proposition of the law made by the parliamentary band, concerning the condemnation of the chief physician of health. Discipline and final resolution. On the turn of the proposed team, Mrs. Ubera, representative of the EH Collect group, has the word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u46	Good morning, everyone. It's no good to talk about the trial of the head physician of the health department today. It's not good news for the government, but it's not good news for the opposition teams, and it's not good news for the whole EAE society. It's really sad. You made us bring a test. An eye, a government can either guess or not handle problems, which may be understandable and acceptable. But it's not acceptable, it's unacceptable to lie, to use a whole majority to hide lies. And that's what the health department and the groups that support the government have done in this case. Hence we have proposed to condemn the Parliaments to the conduct of the chief physician of the Medical Department. That's the essence of today's discussion. whether a lie is a acceptable political tool or not to defend the management of a government. We clearly don't. Because the government always has to tell the truth to people. And in the irregular vaccination case, it didn't work that way. A government may or may not be right when it comes to managing problems, and that is understandable, which can be understood, and it is even acceptable, but what is not acceptable, what is unacceptable is lying, as it is using the absolute majority to cover up those lies. And that's what the Health Adviser has done, and that's what the groups that support this government have done in this case. That is why we call on Parliament to reconsider its action. That, and not another, is the substantive debate that we have: whether or not lies are an acceptable political instrument to defend the management of a government. We are clear that it is not, that the government always has to tell people the truth. And in the case of irregular vaccines it has not been so. because the Publique Offices of the Common-wealth, because the Governments ought to act with responsibilities before this Assembly, because the Power of the People in the Common-wealth is the Representative of the People; and because they ought to be of politicall care in political causes; because we owe the People a certain Right. As you say, due to our respect for the institutions. Look, Mrs Sagardui, from the beginning we have been very but very cautious. Very cautious, up to too much. We have tried to clarify, investigate, contrast, listen to all the parties involved. But before all these opportunities we have given them, they have not been able to answer with sincerity and honesty. He didn't tell us the truth, he lied to us. I have also told him on more than one occasion, in different appearances, that we would have understood perfectly, if he had told us, for example, that in Santa Marina, considering that it is a hospital of subordinates and having the characteristics that it has, the vaccination should be like in the residences of elderly people. We would have accepted it, we would have understood it, and we would have thought it yours. Look, even if you had told us that you were a novice in office, that you didn't know the criteria, the procedure, and that you screwed up, we would have accepted it. But no, he lied to us. He lied to us about Santa Marina, about Basurto and go find out. For example, they justify in a response that came yesterday some vaccinations from Santiago; go and find out what more irregularities we have in the vaccination in the directions of different OSI at the beginning of the campaign. Why didn't they want to materialize the appearances? What are you afraid of, hiding the truth? What do you want to hide? Basque society deserves and must know the truth. Euskal gizrateak egia osoa jakin behar du. Eta EAJk eta PSEk egia zor diote gizarteari. Zergatik imposatu nahi da Osasuneko salilburuaren misrepresented bakarra? Zer's taking ezkutazzeko? Zergatik ez dugu henerako inplikatuen ahotsa entzun behar? Zer ezkutatu nahi duzue? Bentan you two gobernuak synesgarria beer burua ikertzea, zintzoki? Basque society has the right to know the whole truth. And the PNV and the Socialist Party owe an explanation to Basque society. Why do you want to impose the counselor's unique account? What do you want to hide? Why don't you want all the voices of the parties involved to be heard? Do you really think it is credible that the government has investigated itself with rigor and honesty? Instead of prioritizing the truth they have dedicated themselves to putting the fan in motion, to distribute the shit to the whole world, even putting the focus on the and the curls of Santa Marina, which neither sting nor cut; which are a warrants. And finally, they ended up with EH Bildu, with statements that sadly the only thing they emanated was fear and hatred of EH Bildu. But, well, that's not a new way of acting. We saw him at OPE because he did the same thing. And time shows how many things you had to keep. On March 24 I reminded the chairman of the Medical Department on the Medical Committee. If we had no occasion to listen to the voices of all those who were involved, we would have to check it, because we could understand that the chief physician of the health department had lied, as was at first seen, and that it would not have abandoned the data. Government has therefore preferred to conceal what is commonly used by the absolute majority. And we do as we say and say what we do. Why are we based on introducing this test? On December 22, the Santa Marina Director decides to make a request for the mass insertion of personal life, because he was a dirty hospital from the margin, and because of the features of the hospital, he had the characteristic feature of being an elderly man. On December 29th, different conversations were in order to lead the demands. On the one hand, between the head physician of Santa Marina and the Director of Sanitarian Security, and the Doctor of Santa Marina explains the strategy of insertion, and the Director of Insasure accepts it. And it seems good. And on the 10th of March I told you on the committee. From January 5th to January 19th, on different days, interviews, emails, different members of the Public Health, until January 19th the distribution of the victims is secured. It's the whole thing, you know, that shows up in several of the information you've sent here. The manager of St. Marina tells the chief department that they're going to start grafting in in 19, and invites him to come in. On the other hand, the head physician of the Medical Department grants his approval for the quantities of bials which are sent to the integrated sanitary organizations, doesn't he? As we do on certain occasions, the chief section signs, assenting, the number of the bials sent to ESI is specified on the board. In January 19th, the press department in the Department of the Medical Department has been contacted by the hospital in order to let it know that the Spanish Television was going to make a report. You know the health chief and Sabas's wasaps.' It is evident, therefore, that the chief physician of the Medical Department did not speak the truth in the explanations given in the legislature. Besides, in the interviews with the Director of Hosts, the director also approves. On the 20th of January, at the Committee, Mrs. You'll know why. On January 22, at the beginning of the Labi, renumbered. Urtarillaren 27years, batzordean, ukatu berriro eta gezurrak esan, agerian utiliz ére txertaketaren deskontrola. Horrela esan zuen, henera: "It should also be noted that the heads of the Department of Health and those of Osakidetza do not know about this until January 19th", when it has been shown that already January 15th knew; at least January 15. And besides, the director of Osakidetza gives it up for good. "Perfect," he said. The counselor also told us: "I can understand that it's more attractive for them than I knew, but no, I didn't know." But it's a question of St. Marina, where we can find all the stammering that can be found until what we ask is allowed. The nature of the age-ends is given to guide them into their insertion, and fills them with the criteria of insertion. But, for reasons we do not know, the head of the Medical Department has perhaps denied that the Absurd had to explode and to remove the focus. I don't know. The absurd is another story. The fact of the absurd has no name, con nocturnidad y aevosía. But how many boars have there been? I'm going back to the Union. The Normans were introduced on January 3rd. Everyone said he knew. I mean, like OPEn. I remember when we had discussions here, everybody knew what was going on in the boar. You too. And you didn't do anything until you did the St. Marina public. And even later, it has not been attempted to explain the number of grafts which had been introduced and which have been introduced. Why? They hadn't even registered, and later registered. And there we have Mrs. Collazos, a member of Labi, who participated in the organization. And here it is without explanation that it was inserted at five or fifteen. But his fields began to be inserted from 21 to 21. It's also funny to call the Director of Nursery of the Union now the manager of the St. Marina wars. Shut up? I don't know. What happened? What else happened? Isn't all this enough to make a complaint? To conclude this first point, I want to say that we do not deserve this, we do not deserve a government that lies to us, that handles vaccines or everything that comes into its hands as if they were owned by them and do and undo their will as if this country were theirs and this Parliament were theirs, and they also do not assume their responsibility. The people, at this moment, must trust the authorities more than ever. It's a matter of credibility. And in the pandema there is a still greater contempt for institutions and politics. What happened with the scythe campaign has been the reflection of the management of the pandema. We know that it is not easy to manage a state of this kind, but there are ways and modes of facing states. And although today you will win another vote, today is another political failure. Another one. All of us. The pride, not listening is not the best way to rule. This town doesn't deserve this kind of government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections together, Mr. Hernandez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u48	Three times the Basque Nationalist Party has given up this issue of irregular vaccinations that took place at least in the two hospitals of Santa Marina and Basurto. The first to give it virtually as a ditch was curiously the president of the PNV, Mr Ortuzar, would say that almost before the council itself or even the lehendakari itself. A few days ago, when we knew that this initiative of reprobation was coming to Parliament, we listened to the parliamentary group of the Basque Nationalist Party feeling, in some way, very outraged at the arrival of this proposal. We thought that it was in his hand to have avoided it or at least to have prevented some groups like mine from being in this approach of reprobation today, because it is true that Bildu's original initiative had been there for months, that we could have discussed it long ago, especially when all the opposition groups already raised in his day in one way or another that we understood that the councilwoman should leave the post as assuming political responsibility for what happened. But this is more than just a reason, in our view, for the groups supporting the Government to have made it easier all this time to exercise the transparency that this matter demanded and to listen to all the voices of those with responsibilities involved in this unpleasant matter. All groups, except those on which the Government is based, have requested this in one format or another. From Elkarrekin Podemos and United Left we raised the formula of the commission of inquiry, we thought it was the most opportune to be able to hear all the voices. It's true, I know they're going to tell me, it wasn't backed up or at least it wasn't backed up enough to materialize. Other groups raised, and so requested, the appearances of different protagonists of this scandal. Beyond the concrete formula, the matter was serious enough in the middle of a pandemic like this to have been able to live up to it and to have allowed this Parliament to listen to the directors of the abandoned hospitals, the public health officials and those who did not comply with the obligation to register irregularly inoculated vaccines at Basurto Hospital. At the very least, in the case of my parliamentary group, we said from the outset that the main interested party in clarifying everything was the Basque Government itself, so that it would have to assume responsibilities, and so we said, who would have to do so, and so that the suspicion of doubt about who had no responsibility could also be cleared up. But the blatant intention of the PNV, and with it the Socialist Party, to prevent us from listening to other actors other than the councilwoman herself in the committee, has shown that the government did not want transparency, but rather to move on as quickly as possible, even if that meant leaving many questions and incognites in the air. It is unheard of that, first, the appearances raised by different groups in relation to these facts are delayed, with the argument that there were other matters before the committee, and finally, on the basis of the absolute majority, impose the proposal not to make such appearances. In our view, the possibility of even listening, of listening to those who were at the centre of what happened, some with demonstrated responsibilities – the two directors – and others with a fundamental role in explaining what happened, has been blatantly curtailed. On Basurto it was necessary to listen to those who decided not to register the vaccines, an act of compulsory compliance of which the counselor could not give explanations until just a few weeks ago, when he brought us the conclusions of an investigation that we, at the moment, must call at least not transparent. A very convincing explanation, so I transferred it to the councilwoman herself in the committee. It was not known how to register the vaccines inoculated to the manager and heads of service, and the thing is not clear in the almost two weeks that pass until the director of Osakidetza is aware of the lack of registration and then orders the registration, and there is no problem to register. Do we really want to be told that there is no need to know more and listen to those who were in these vaccinations? Of course, it was necessary to listen to the protagonists, including the Directorate of Public Health, who sent Santa Marina enough vaccines to vaccinate all the staff, including, logically, the resignation director. Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita raised the need for the counselor to step aside when we met the famous messages that the director of the Santa Marina hospital had exchanged with the counselor herself and with the director of Osakidetza. Because there we could see that the version that had been given to us so far did not conform to what was said there. But we also raise the need to contrast well all the information and to have the explanations of all the protagonists. Because, although for some – including my group – those messages showed that the counselor was aware that the entire hospital was being vaccinated, she, the Basque Government and the groups supporting the Basque Government understood that this was not the case. For the counselor, when the messages talk about immunizing the entire hospital, she doesn't understand that it's the whole hospital, she explained it already; for others it was clear. The director of the hospital himself states in the media that the counselor knew that she was referring to the entire hospital. How can we not contrast such a serious accusation at parliamentary level? When in committee my group then proposes,"hey, then here are two versions. To us the subject seems obvious, but let us clarify it, we have to clarify it", what we are told is that "there are no two versions, you have your version and the government raises facts". This seems to us an insult to the benefit of the doubt that my group – even with the information we had – was giving to the counselor when we raised "well, let's listen to the rest." So, in the end we have to say that unfortunately we have only had the explanations of the Government itself, of the Councilwoman itself basically. And it has been because of the government's blockade, we understand, of course, with the support of the groups that support it. So I'm going to repeat myself in a statement. We believe that it would be so irresponsible for us to believe together what was explained by those who claimed that the councilwoman was fully aware of what was going on, especially in Santa Marina, with the sole objective of clinging to that in order to attack and wear down the Government, as irresponsible would be this as it would be to have blind faith in what the Government tells us when they also do not allow us to listen to other actors in Parliament, especially when we have insisted that some very specific aspects of the whole matter appear to us to be untrue, and when we continue to have doubts about other very important aspects. And if we have finally not had the opportunity to listen to the rest of the people and those responsible involved, because those who support the Government have blocked it and have done everything possible not to listen to them, for us it is impossible for us to give a vote of confidence today to the counselor before this proposal of reprobation. As much as it is not, in our opinion, the main war, because – I have already said this in committee more than once – we do not gain anything from our group with which the councilwoman goes out or does not go out, because neither the reprobation nor the resignation – which we already ask for in its day – clarify for ourselves what we need to clarify, what we need to hear from the rest of those responsible. But that manoeuvre by the Government groups is a gag that leads us to take a clear stand in favour of the reprobation of the adviser presented to us today. While for us the fundamental thing, I will say it once again, is what we put forward in our amendment: that all the responsibilities that need to be debugged, both in relation to the supply of uncontrolled vaccines in Santa Marina and to irregular vaccination without registration in Basurto, should be debugged. But this is impossible if we do not allow parliamentary groups, as has happened, to investigate in greater depth what has happened, which has been avoided by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party. Therefore, we are going to maintain our amendment, which we believe is the substance of the matter so that we do not give up again, for the fourth time, a matter which should not be given up, and we will also support the proposals for reprobation which are being put forward today. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u49	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Popular Group-Ciudadnos representative, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, head of the Medical Department, members of the legislature, good morning. We didn't think we'd do this debat. We thought the chairman of the department would leave his office, or the president would make up his mind on this matter. The group that I represent never thought that we would get to deal with this initiative, to discuss this initiative. Certainly, we do not think that you, Health Advisor, at this time would follow the lead of the Department of Health, as the ultimate responsible. It was in his hand to have come this far. The truth is that we thought in an innocent way that you were going to voluntarily take the decision to leave your responsibility after all the events that have taken place over the past few months as a health adviser to the Basque Nationalist-Socialist Party Government, or that Lehendakari himself had invited you to leave your post. Events that have undoubtedly demonstrated an attitude of flight forward, of covering up the issue of irregular vaccinations, of blaming and even demonizing anyone who disagreed with your opinion or the theses that you advocated. Throughout these months, since his vision, he has not accepted the slightest criticism. You rejected any questions, clarification, affirmation, as you were asked. I even saw them as personal attacks. An attitude, of course, very contrary, Madam Counsellor, to what must be the exercise of political activity in a consolidated democracy from scrupulous respect for the legitimately represented political plurality in this Parliament. That has been his attitude and has not changed. And he's had opportunities. We decided to table an amendment to the proposal with several points, including the reprobation of the Health Adviser, for several reasons: for the poor management of the vaccination process in the pandemic in general; for hindering, not cooperating, to miss the truth in the episode of irregular vaccinations. Then I will focus on developing these two points. The treatment has been very wrong. And that's where the results are, we've been the last ones for several weeks on the list. Poor management of the slow, disorderly, chaotic vaccination process. The first ones on the tail, with changing lists. Why, if we are told that the first dose has an effectiveness of 70-80%, has this not been the criterion in maintaining strategic reserves? There has been no real plan to identify the groups to prioritize within the essential groups established by the National Health Commission itself. But it is that the competences in public health lie in the autonomous communities: to order, to plan a vaccination process. You here haven't been and haven't been expected. Poor management has had an impact on citizenship. Problems of loss of users on the web, episodes of missing centenarians, persons cited, decoyed and subsequently cited, elderly people who are summoned to be vaccinated at hours of the night who are clearly uncomfortable, people who go to the summons and are not on the corresponding lists, agglomerations in queues, as has happened in the BEC images recently, people who are vaccinated because they expressly went to their health center or call by phone, announcements of new collectives to be vaccinated when the previous ones are not completed, high-risk people who do not yet know when to be vaccinated. In short, Madam Counsellor, the outcome of your management at the head of the vaccination process has been quite a disaster. A long time, as I said, leading the ranking, but by the tail. The consequences: a disconcerted and unbelieving population before what was seeing and happening. It's supposed to be one of the best sanities in Spain. Of course, I believe that the myth of the good management of the Basque Nationalist Party here has already fallen, it has just fallen with the management of all these issues. In relation to the episode of irregular vaccinations in Basurto and Santa Marina, there has never been any will to reach the end, or to clarify it, counselor. You could have cleared it up. He's had opportunities. You have been entangled in your truth, which is not the truth, and you have wanted us to see that your truth was the truth and it has not been so. He did not want to clear up responsibilities and has grossly missed the truth of the facts. And you know it. As for the vaccination of Basurto, you detail us to stick to day 3, four people are vaccinated... We have asked you and that is why we have asked for the appearances of other people who could shed light on this issue, because we have doubts whether the vaccinations were confined only to those days and if only the four people that you detail were vaccinated. We do not believe, Madam Counsellor, that you are aware of these irregular vaccinations on day 19 by means of a means of communication. We don't believe it. But there's your testimony against our testimony. Dr. Collazos' vaccination deserves a separate chapter. He is a member of the Labi and head of the Basic Prevention Unit of the Basurto OSI. Suppose he's vaccinated on the 15th. He has not answered these questions, which are key, and has not allowed others to come and shed light on these points. Because they don't want the truth to be known. Because he wants only his truth to be kept, which is the lie about this matter. Why is it vaccinated when you're not a front-line professional? Why is it vaccinated before other front-line professionals, such as emergency doctors in Basurto? Why weren't other officials responsible for the prevention units of the rest of the ISOs vaccinated on that date, and she did? In addition, it is vaccinated the day after the vaccination process begins. We should talk about the registration of all these vaccinations, because not registering a medical act is an issue that can even be allegedly criminal because of the consequences it may have. In connection with the Hospital de Santa Marina. Of course, vaccination was allowed. It's just that you authorized it, consented to it, because you knew it. And why? I know you're telling me that Santa Marina Hospital "is not a residence, it's a hospital." Yeah, it's a hospital, but it looks like a socio-health residential center. This vaccination was intended to make a social bubble. You tell us that when authorized, that week, no vials arrived. How are not 100 vials sent to the hospital to be checked for vaccination without proper authorization and without their knowledge? Because you authorized the vaccination of the entire staff, the entire staff. That's why the messages they're sending you that day corroborate how events happen. That's why the managing director takes out a video – no one who knows you can't vaccinate takes out a video – and spreads it through communication networks. It's even called a means of communication. You are informed in detail, if someone is doing something sneaky, they will not inform you and the director of Osakidetza in detail of how the vaccination process is developing throughout that day. And, by the way, these are very different cases from Basurto and Santa Marina. You have systematically tried to match and mix everything up to get to the confusion ceremony or take us to that alleged confusion ceremony. But the lie has very short legs, counselor, and one day the truth will be known. You did not want to answer many of the questions we have raised with regard to irregular vaccinations, many of which remain unanswered today. For this reason, this group requested several appearances to be submitted to the Health Commission. Just as his appearance was sustained, other appearances were sustained. Where's the problem? Madam Counsellor, Mr Lehendakari, Members of the Basque Government, for the sake of transparency, where is the problem? If it is the government of transparency, why do they prevent people from coming here who can provide information of interest to this Parliament, the home of all Basques, where we are represented all Basques, to help us clarify this matter and get to the end? Is it not of interest to everyone, or should it not be of interest to the adviser herself, to this Government, to the lehendakari and to the groups supporting the Government? Where's the problem? Or do you want the Councilwoman and this Government to keep their version in this Parliament only and to include only the version of the Councilwoman in the future Chamber? Why did you not send us, did you not give us the information file in relation to these investigations, although we requested it in the committee itself? Why so much concealment, Counselor? Why so much concealment? Why so afraid to know the truth? And I'm finishing up. Of course, the decision not to refer the file constitutes for us the obstruction of the work we have to do as parliamentarians and, of course, to know the truth. And finally, Madam Counsellor, because of her inability to meet the main challenge we have on the table at this time, which is the health crisis, because of her lack of diligence, because of her lack of transparency, because she has not helped to clarify the episodes of irregular vaccinations that have taken place, but quite the contrary, because she has repeatedly disrespected this Parliament and because she has failed to tell the truth in a sustained way from the beginning, because she has built her castle from the lie that one day will collapse, and because we understand that she is not worthy to remain in the position that she currently holds, because of the credibility of Osakidetza and of a government that is very touched, we have proposed her reprobation. Because we sincerely believe that Basque society deserves to know the truth. We want to know the truth, and we don't want this lie to be kept in time anymore.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u51	Finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u52	And because I think we deserve – and I finish, Madam President – a government that is responsible, honest and worthy of the society it represents, we have tabled this amendment in which one of the points proposes that you be rejected. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u53	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u54	Thank you, Madam President. I absolutely agree that citizenship deserves to know the truth. So let's do it. Today, finally, on 13 May, we are going to deal with this non-law proposal by EH Bildu which calls for the reprobation of the Health Adviser. And I say at last, because, although we are dealing with it today, 13 May, it turns out that it was registered three months ago and one day, on 12 February. And this fact is absolutely relevant, because it shows very clearly that EH Bildu had issued the sentence of guilt since the beginning of the proceedings. EH Bildu, and those who are accompanying him today with his amendments. Throughout this time, while in the health commissions we have been hearing that the opposition wanted one or the other to appear to analyze the responsibilities, when we heard that it would be good to make a commission of inquiry – which, by the way, no one has ever registered, ever – or that an internal investigation and subsequent actions should be made, the truth is that since January 27 they had absolutely clear the guilt of the councilwoman, asking for her resignation and her cessation. And the truth is that EH Bildu records this reprobation on February 12. And these are the data. Without waiting for any kind of investigation, without waiting for us to discuss the possibility of someone coming or not. By the way, then we will see, the appearances, most of them, were presented after January 27 asked for resignation and that February 12 registered this proposal for reprobation that we are discussing today. That is, so that they understand us, as if one of us were accused in court and when they came in they told us, "Take, that's your sentence. He's guilty, but wait a moment that we're going to set him up now." That would be unacceptable. Well, that's what happened in this procedure. And as much as you want to put something else to us today, an alternative reality, which is what I have seen you have wanted to do, the truth is that you left it on record and in writing on 12 February. I mean, this thing we're saying, this thing I'm saying, it's not assumptions. No, no. They are not conjectures, they are facts; they are facts, and that is the difference, they are facts. It is not true that this proposal for a reprobation is therefore the result of their failure to comply with the investigation. It is not true that this proposal for a reprobation is a consequence of the fact that the Commissioner's explanations have not seemed sufficient to them. And much less that we have not acceded to the appearances that you have raised. It's just that you had decided that the counselor was guilty, and you didn't care about the results of any investigation, much less the appearances. And this seems very important to me, because now we've heard it again. See, of 12 requests for appearance: five requests after the application for resignation and termination, four requests after registration of the reprobation, nine out of 12 after sentencing the counsellor's guilt. Do you really want us to believe that appearances for you were absolutely necessary to resolve the responsibilities of all this? It's not credible. And I say it again, it's not conjecture, it's fact. Therefore, we are not here today because they have not convinced them of the explanations that have been given. We're not here today because they don't create enough research. Not much less we're here because we haven't agreed to appearances. We are here today, 13 May, because in January they decided that the councilwoman was guilty and on 12 February they registered her in writing in this Parliament. Because for you there was guilt regardless of the investigation, regardless of the explanations and regardless of the appearances that were requested. And for us that is an absolutely intractable attitude. Look, from the beginning, the Socialists said it clearly: the facts we are talking about should never have happened. The protocols on who the vaccine recipients were were clear and strict, and the aim at the time was to vaccinate the most vulnerable groups, or those most at risk. That should always be respected and without any excuse. And that's why it seemed good to us that the department will take the decision to remove those people from their positions. We have always moved the same position with regard to the facts that we have been familiar with and on which we have been informed in the committee on several occasions. Four, if we count the regular appearance in which we were initially informed by the councilwoman herself of the resignation and the resignation of the two members of the management staff of Osakidetza. There's something out of any doubt. In the instructions given by the department for the prioritization of persons to be vaccinated, management personnel were never considered as such. Or what is the same, but otherwise said, something clearer, those who did it skipped the prioritization done by the department. And this was felt by the department itself, because what it did was to withdraw immediately from its posts by ceasing and renouncing the two responsible for Basurto and Santa Marina. And by the way, it would be important to remember when it was done, because quite similar issues were happening in other autonomous communities, by the way, where they govern parties that today call for the councilwoman to cease. And there their political leaders, instead of ceasing these people, did what they did was support them in office until the media threw them down. And that didn't happen here. And by the way, it should be remembered that on January 20th it is the councillor herself, as I have said, who informs us, both of the facts and of the decision to remove these responsible from their posts. Also, it seems to me that it should also be emphasized: they say that they have not been able to know the facts, but I have heard here make a mimetic account of the facts with the same dates as the counselor told us on 27 January. And if you don't know the facts, do you judge guilt? I don't think it's consumable. And on that same date, on 20 January, he informed us that the collection of information and verification at other centres was to be carried out, reaching the conclusions that on 27 January and 10 February he transferred us in his appearances, and finally, on 21 April, where he made known to us the result of the various efforts made in those appearances. And we also knew that the councilwoman herself had even consulted the Committee on Public Ethics. And we even know that this issue was brought to justice, with the result that we all know. There is therefore a first conclusion that we should not lose sight of. And I insist, since January 20, the department has already taken steps to clarify the facts, including the announcement that the two responsible in Basurto and Santa Marina had resigned and ceased, respectively. And to the Socialists that claim of responsibility seemed to us, and we think, more than appropriate, by the demand of exemplaryness. By the way, the demand that materialized again when unacceptablely a high office understood that it could leave its municipality to play golf. Does this mean that everything went well? No, no, Obviously not. But that's what the department took over from the very beginning. It's just that already on January 27 the counselor herself was telling us, and I read the session log: "The mass vaccination in Santa Marina was a mistake, a decoordination for which we feel responsible in the Department and in Osakidetza. I'm the first one. From one side to the other, we were talking about different things." From the outset, we point out that there were obvious points of improvement, and even of criticism, from those facts, and we ask the Sailburu to take measures to prevent them from being repeated, that we believe it is important, that we believe it is what concerns and occupies the citizenry. And the truth is that in the committee itself the councilwoman assumed it and gave us an account of those measures that were being taken to prevent such situations from being repeated. And the truth is that they have borne fruit, because they have not repeated themselves. I believe that in the interests of all representatives it should be that Basque health always acts with the rigour that is necessary, and more in a situation like this, of a global pandemic. The responsibility of the department's officials is to ensure that things are done well and to convey a message of confidence in the vaccination process. And we know that the department is committed to that twofold task, putting all the means at its disposal, correcting the deficiencies, which of course we find and are correcting, and articulating mechanisms to reach the milestones that we have marked from here and that has also marked the Government of Spain. Which, by the way, is what we are, what we really care about. And, as I said last week, in front of those who have wanted to be bulldozers during the last few months, in front of those who have settled in the "all evil and all good", the truth is that the milestones are being fulfilled. With data from yesterday, in Euskadi we have 40.9% of the vaccinated population with at least one dose and 17% with the full schedule. We're above the global average. But, as it seems, those who support this reprobation today understand that this success, which is collective, must be, as they say in their initiatives, the fruit of mismanagement and mismanagement. What a pity, ladies and gentlemen, that the data will ruin your exhibition!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u55	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u56	Thank you, ma'am. President, chief physician, chief physician of the Medical Department, good noon to all. For starters, and even if I'm accused of spoiling, I warn you that we're going to vote no to propositions. On January 19 in the afternoon, the Department of Health received a call stating that the manager of the Hospital de Basurto had been vaccinated. The department investigates and confirms that the director of Basurto and other health personnel had used surplus vaccines. At the same time, they discovered that such vaccines had not been registered and opened an information file. In this investigation, and without any prior complaint, they discover that all the staff, including the manager, had been vaccinated in Santa Marina, three union releases, bar staff, priests and a messenger passing by. On the 20th the councilwoman explains it in committee. And he concludes that one manager had resigned, the other had been terminated and a file had been opened. Responsibilities had been cleared in 24 hours. And, in spite of everything, the opposition raised its voice and became scandalized. Today I was surprised to hear you accept, even, that I said I was a rookie, that I was learning. But, man, if the first day the director of Osakidetza came, who was opening, that was a rookie, you, Mrs. Ubera, and you, Mrs. Garrido, told her before you started asking her anything that shouldn't be sitting in that place... Yes, they were generously hitting on no one's rookie. I imagine what the director of Osakidetza thought of what this Parliament was. The manager of Santa Marina offered an interview, and unveiled some private messages that, by the way, the counselor also showed us. Regardless of what it seems to me that a media outlet publishes private messages, you react by giving good explanations to the manager, while accusing him of being vaccinated for being PNV and accusing the councilwoman of lying to the citizenry. No more or less. They conclude that the manager of Santa Marina does not hesitate to take advantage of his filiation, but that he does not lie. A whisper to Major Oreja came to me. No opposition group had the slightest gesture of gratitude with the counselor for having uncovered and explained the fact, when it could have been given knowledge of the case and explain to us that that hospital has special characteristics, with very old residents, high covid rates..., which is true, and that everyone should be vaccinated, including the manager and the union releases. No one would have said anything. That's what you said, Mrs. Ubera, that you could have said that. But to say that was to lie. That was lying. He didn't, because there was a protocol that talked about vaccination at 50% and not managers. And the department found out they'd all been vaccinated. If there was an error of decoordination, the counselor explained, what honors her, when sending more vials than needed. Is that lying? Or is it to tell the truth at a time when vaccines were started and the organization was resentful? You can read all the messages you want. But when the counselor or director of Osakidetza read "all the staff," they are not thinking about the totality of the staff, but about all those who had to be vaccinated. Aren't they capable of abstracting and thinking what everyone is understanding in that conversation? I don't just believe him, I'm convinced he told the truth, because, besides, telling it was more complex than adapting history. Example of your performance, Mrs. Collazos' vaccination. First, fraudulent and done on 3 January, and since they confirm that it was done on the 15th, particularly Mrs Garrido questions that she should be touched that day. What are we on? Did he or didn't he or didn't he get the 15? Or is it? That's the demonstration that all they're looking for is to sow doubts. And if, for that, for a few days you keep a lie, it doesn't matter. That's the key to the matter, lying or telling false truths to try to bear that counselor lied. And what about the system they used to support this GNP? A GNP submitted on 12 February; when last Thursday it was presented by the spokesman said that they had submitted it that day. That wasn't true. Then, in a semantic turn, call it activating a proposition. What's that? If already on February 12, after denying Podemos a commission of inquiry, they presented it, sentencing without trial, with the reprobation of the counselor, because, and I quote textual, "he had lost all credibility to lead the health emergency. And she had been disqualified from lying to Parliament." And then you tell us, Mrs. Ubera, that you've been acting all the time with prudence? On February 12, she already told the counselor, she is registered in writing. Please, prudence. If someone's done all that horrible stuff they say, can they wait three months to activate it? Or was it simply that you had sentenced in February, waiting to execute the sentence at any time of interest for your political strategy, something very peculiar to your miserable way of doing politics? Sentence, and now, if that, see if we can find anything. And nothing has changed since then, except that the adviser explained and summarized the conclusions of the dossier opened in Basurto, and with that our group ended the case together with the Socialist Group. And it was we, we, not the councillor or the government, who requested that the appearances requested by PP-Citizens, Bildu and Vox should not be supported, let us call him Ramiro de Maeztu's quartet, who have been working at the Health Commission as roommates at a pajamas party since the beginning of the legislature. Our request and withdrawal was sufficiently reasoned. And so it was explained in the committee because, once the file was explained, we knew in a definitive way what happened. And to keep turning around the mill did not bring anything, and less to bring to commission a series of officials of the Department of Health, that those were the people claimed, when it had been his advisor who had told us directly. And as you all know, governments act under the principle of hierarchical dependence, being the adviser who is responsible for the actions of the people who make up their team. It is up to her to inform, appoint and cease the people who make up her team. The councilwoman has replaced those who committed irregularities, and the councilwoman has completed a file, which she explained to us. The subject was settled, because she spoke on behalf of her entire department. By the way, why try to have appearances in March or April if they had already sentenced in February? I insist. Everything else, you know, it's gunning. Embarrass, even if the floor is dry. It's a partisan interest to get dirty. And that, which is the only thing they know how to do, we're not going to allow it. You have activated a reprobation to the counselor with the apology for decisions she did not make. They have been taken by the parliamentary group, then the activation is to reproach the parliamentary group. The other is the fallacy of sentencing in winter, and seeing if it's okay for us to execute the sentence in spring. Or was it not that when you, Mrs. Ubera, presented the reprobation you found that you were only going to support PP-Citizens and Vox, the trio of Columbus, and at that time gave him some rejection? Do not go out with them, who go all day together; let him be seen with them. And wouldn't it be that then, to cover up, he tried to get Podemos to support her and then he didn't get it? And it's just that it wasn't easy for you to support him when you didn't want to give it to him to set up a commission of inquiry. Even Mrs Eba Blanco said publicly that there would only be that commission if Bildu asked for it, and did not ask it because you, simply, sentenced. They decided not to support the commission of inquiry, because there the protagonist was Podemos, and then, after sentencing, to agree again with Vox, PP and Citizens to ask for a few appearances, and to go create that commission without it seeming that they did, when it no longer made sense, after having issued the final sentence. That is why we shall vote against the rejection. And we will vote for the continuity of the Councilwoman and her entire Government, because we know that they are doing well, that they are overcoming the enormous difficulties involved in managing this pandemic in the front line. It is legitimate to do so, but it loses all its legitimacy when it is based on a simulation of events discovered and explained by the Government itself in order to spread unfounded suspicions and lie, Mrs Ubera, with theatrical support from another parliamentary group, the People's Party, with which it does not sign transactions, but with which it constantly concludes its actions. And I said lie, because lying is saying that the counselor knew what was being done in Santa Marina. Lying is that a doctor from Basurto was vaccinated on day 3. And lying is saying that the counselor has lied to the citizenry. We are going to vote no, because the proposal for a reprobation is a huge trial. Without even waiting for the counselor's explanations, they sentenced on 12 February. Our vote is not going to be, because in the current pandemic, and given the complexity of the work that the health administration has to do, you have decided to stall the task in which citizens must trust. You have decided to continue with the cry, when society really asks for calm and certainties. We will vote no, because you continue to convey mistrust when citizens ask for confidence, and we want to give it to them. We vote that not because no attitude has been given from the Department of Health that could be thought to generate mistrust or doubt. And that concludes this trial. Go look for some other fallacy, which you will invent, because that is one of the forms of your bad and indigent way of doing politics. The other is that instead of supporting the difficult task of the Government, they turn all efforts into trying to break down their work, get their efforts drunk and delegitimize their role. But they haven't, and they won't. In the last survey, to the citizenry, which you, Mrs Ubera, raising your voice, said that the counselor had lied, and of which you, Mrs Garrido, said that you are increasingly appreciating your work, it turns out that you value the health work of the Basque Government at 7.6 out of 10. And so that there is no doubt, because I was told that this had been done in a batzoki, in the last study of the Federation of Associations for the Defense of Public Health in Spain, Euskadi appears in the first place, with 98 points, when the lowest score is 60, and the average is 80. And that is why we will definitely vote no. In addition to ratifying our support for the Government, we see that the majority of Parliament today supports its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u57	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing on the day's answers, EH Collect, Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u58	It is a pity not to understand what the work of organizations is, what politics it is, what a pity it is to be put on the phone, not to understand what the work of the government is, and what the opposition is. And we, from our modesty and simplicity, have attempted to do the duty of opposition. A teacher often says to me: "Don't waste your time trying to convince people that they can't be convinced." That's why we try to fulfill the work of opposition. And it's the government's job to account for the people with all the transparency, and it's our job to control the government. That's why we're here today. Look, a lie has a very short leg. You asked for data, we put all the data on the table. We even ordered the lieutenant, you didn't throw the file at us, you tell us we're lying. Look, that gets along very easily. Listen, listen to the voice of all involved. Bring me informal treatment, the pellet, everything would be over, but you didn't want to do it. You just wanted to close the back door without listening to anyone else's voice with the only sign of the health chief physician. That's the truth. There's something to hide. And, yes, very patiently. Although in February, you have well said, we registered census of censuses on February 12th, we wanted to hire him to tell us that when we told him he lied about whether we were wrong or not. But you closed the back door. You closed it and you didn't want to investigate. It's about something. It's about something. Look, there's no por no haber no habido me protocolo, me protocolo. St. Marina's behavior is clear. The documentation sent here is also seen by the law. You can see it in the wahasapes. You're asking us for the data, but that's where the data is. And, really, if you've done everything right, I don't know why you don't want to investigate and why you don't want to put all the data on the table. Zer gehiago? Begira, esan diguzue gure politica egiteko modua de la "insumable, miserable, ruinable, destitute". Badakizue zer unabsorbable, bad, indigent? That you get yours slashed and try to hide it on top of it. And totally unheard of and miserable that they use the absolute majority to veto appearances, to know the truth, to hold society accountable. That's miserable. And then there's an obsession: Everything seems to be to destabilize the government, and our policy is a "miserable, ruin." Well, look, we've been wet from the start. In January, we began to work on pandemia in this legislature, because they told us that the government wasn't prepared for pandemy. Before the first positive, on the private level, we handed the chief's proposal to the department in private. And they were elections, by the way. We were the first to ask for confirmation when no one asked for it, and it has its own dangers. Do you know how many proposals have been submitted to this Chamber? 69 proposals to pandemia and the effect of panic. And you vote against 58, 84%, both in the permanent Dilputation, and in the Os meeting. Plus the report for the Urkullu. In July, when everyone was on vacation, we asked the head physician for a meeting, and we were with him, and with all the government, because we were worried that the situation was worse. Is that the miserable way to make politics? Is that it? We risked our lives, we got wet when we didn't need it. Even on the committees. Portto, look, did you hear the Lancet investigation today? You laughed at me and said, "What do you say? "You said when we asked for the second dose to place the AstraZenec based on evidence, and when we told you not to waste time and start taking the second dose. Do you remember? Do you remember? See what they do today. And we start risking ourselves in advance and in time, we get wet, and we've wanted to help from the beginning. But that doesn't mean we have to look the other way when one thing's wrong, because our work, our opposition work, is to control, to count. And it's not that the government has to give the accounts to EH Collect, the people, the society, and that's what we're here for. But you seem to be all set on phonetels, and you're lawyers. The same thing happened with OPE, I don't know if you remember. I don't know, remember, remember. Correct: this people is not worth the trouble of governing, and it is necessary to correct them when something is done wrong, and to give an account of it. And you're always running away from the back door to count on it. What are we going to think about? What have you got to hide? There is here no transparency, no will to inquire, no will to listen to those who are involved. It was only here that the recruit wanted to impose. You're going to make it as you like, you're going to represent reality as you like, but the data is there, they're public. And there's the probability.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Together, Mr. Hernandez, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u60	"Culpability, judgments, summary judgment." These are not courts and, of course, my group, neither with its amendment nor with its vote on the initiative and the two amendments that exist, intends to judge no one or to find the councilwoman guilty of anything. We are talking about political responsibilities for acts in the exercise of a political function. That is why we on the day that appears in the press the information of the director of the Hospital of Santa Marina, which is a high office of the Public Administration, information in which it is evident that the counselor knew that the whole hospital was vaccinated when it was not what was due, we understood, and we said it publicly, indeed that it was proceeding to counsel, I believe that the expression we used was "should be put aside" in the assumption of political responsibilities. It's not a sentence. However, as I said in my first speech, we asked, and we said so in the committee, to listen to all the voices, because here there are two different versions of the interpretation of what was said there. We were even denied the possibility of this, because we were denied, in fact, that there were two versions. We were told that what the government was doing and what that director of a hospital, a senior official of the administration, was saying, we don't know what it was. And that's why we thought it was important to know and have known. We do not register this initiative of reprobation, and the main argument used by the groups supporting the Government has been that the sentence was already marked because there was a record on 12 or 13 February of that reprobation. I would like to know what we are also saying to others, to whom we have been asking that everything be known and that the parliamentarians and we can know everything, we can investigate where we have not been able to investigate, because we would like to know what the public health officials say, not that the council is telling us what the public health officials say or not, we want to ask them, we want to know what the people who were in the irregular vaccinations of Basurto, very specifically, about the non-registration of those vaccinations. Because that question, of course, in my opinion, has not been clarified at all, not at all clarified, no, Madam Counsellor, not at all. And the issue on which my group is going to approve this proposal today, and also the amendment by the People's Party, has nothing to do with the motivations that one or another group may have to bring this initiative to the House. You make your assessment of why you bring them or not, I'm not going into that. It is clear to me that at the moment, with the attitude of the Government to this issue, with the attitude of the groups supporting the Government in this matter, only those initiatives of reprobation can be approved. Because, I return to what I said at the beginning of my first speech, I sincerely believe that I would have been in the hands of the Government, through the groups that support the Government – because we are not fooled, they go hand in hand, it seems logical to me – that there should be a real transparency exercise on this matter. And if you are convinced of your version – because there are versions, even if we have been denied –, if you are convinced of your version of the facts, that could have allowed no one today to come here to ask for the Councilwoman's reprobation. If that had been the case, we would not be in this debate today, I am convinced. If that had been the case, but we do not know it and we will not know it because you today take for granted, for the fourth time, this matter that we will see whether it is settled or not.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u61	Thank you, Mr. Hernandez. Basque Popular Group-Ciudadnos representative, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u62	Mr. Telleria, Mr. Ekain, Mr. Lehendakari, Councillor, Councillors. But if the judgment has been handed down by you in a judicial procedure, that is, there has been no judicial process nor with the minimum guarantee of legal certainty to the right of effective judicial protection. But what are they telling me? If you have absolutely obstructed from the beginning everything that could sow doubts in your version, anything that could not corroborate your version. Where is the problem with the managing director of the hospital of Basurto, of the hospital of Santa Marina, the director of Public Health, the medical director of Santa Marina, the member of the Labi, members of the nursing department of the hospital of Basurto, of the subdirection of Nursing? But where's the problem? What's the problem with these people showing up? Unless you can say things that this Government does not like and contradict the version that you want to maintain, compared to what this Government and the Councillor say, and finally also the Lehendakari, who corroborated and supported the Councillor, is that there is no other. Where is the problem in the Government, which stands as a transparent Government, such as the Government of the common good, such as the Government of the People, to bring people to the Basque Parliament to clarify, for the sake of transparency, a murky matter, a matter on which many doubts persist? But where's the problem? Have these words been taken away from you, Mr. Lehendakari? Where is the Government of Transparency? Where's the good government? Where is the people's government when they do not allow people to come to this Parliament to give their version and clarify facts that I believe the first one who had to be interested in clarifying them is this government? Therefore, here is something to hide, because, if not, this has no explanation. What you don't want here is for you to know the truth or for you to know a truth other than what the counselor has pointed out, which you want to maintain is the only truth. We will see other versions and with other versions we will be able to build the truth, but we will not be able to build the truth only with the counselor's version, it cannot be built with the version of only one part. Of course, you will today have the absolute majority enough to settle this matter, but absolutely in bad ways. I believe that Parliament is absolutely touched, but, of course, the absolute majority does not cover the mismanagement of this adviser at the head of the Department of Health, nor the assumption of minimal responsibility, does it cover the fact that the truth has not been told. He'll cover for no rebuttal, but other things, of course, he won't cover for. And two specific issues. In relation to the vaccinations of Santa Marina, it is not that we create the version of Mr. Sabas. If I have not spoken to Mr Sabas, that is, I have not had a chance, so I wanted him to come to Parliament, to the house where all the Basques are represented, and to explain to the People's Group, to everyone, what happened at the Hospital de Santa Marina, but we have not been left. I have not been in contact with this gentleman, but I would like to know his version for the sake of transparency, for the sake of legitimising the consolidated democracy which is supposed to be Basque society and which has a voice in this Parliament. What is the problem with Mr Sabas coming to this Parliament? What's the problem? Because it seems that the problem is only seen by groups that support the Government. With regard to Mrs Collazos' vaccination, what problem is there, if she was vaccinated on the 15th, as this Government says, when she was in charge? It was front-line staff; hey, let us know how the vaccination went, let us know that it was vaccinated on the 15th, because it was front-line staff. Where's the problem? We just didn't get it. Yes, we do. In the end, counselor, look, we don't believe her, we don't believe her and we're going to go on without believing her. So, you already have your image very touched, you have it damaged to follow the head of the Department of Health, and we are at the beginning of the legislature, but you do not have it in front of the opposition groups in this Parliament. I believe that it is already facing the whole of Basque citizenship, which has seen how it has managed all the processes: what has to do with the management of this pandemic, the vaccination process, which has been chaotic, disastrous, with changing criteria, the disconcerted population, there is nothing more than going out on the street, with double rates compared to the national average with the most restrictive measures; that is, all day long throwing balls away, blaming the citizenry, blaming the hospitality; you have not been able to make a point of self-criticism, you have been unable to make a serious epidemiological analysis to find out where the infections were and see how we were. We are in favour of measures and an orderly descalation, but effective measures, because you yourself do not know what the effective measures are by seeing the number of contagions. And finally, I believe that citizenship, citizens, deserve transparent, dignified governments, which certainly do not hinder research to prevail their versions, and governments that give the true size and governments that do not fail to the truth. And that is why we reproach you today in this plenary, Madam Counsellor. And it's okay, life goes on. We were reproached by a few ministers, Catalá, Montoro, Dastis, even a motion of censure and we had to leave the government by five votes of the Basque Nationalist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u63	Thank you. Basque Socialists, Mr. Rico, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u64	It's true, Mrs. Garrido, that they had to leave a government, and remember why, remember why, right? Mrs Ubera, you have chosen the best, the People's Party, to go hand in hand in a deferred reprobation, because the People's Party knows perfectly well about these things, about the deferred issues. And what we have lived here today is that, a theater in which you have come to say that we have not let you investigate, that you do not know the facts. But anyone who has been seeing the plenary has seen how they have made the same account of the facts that the councilwoman did in the 27th commission and that they thought good, but they say, "I don't believe it." But if you're mimetically reading what was handed over to the commission! We are told that this is a consequence of the fact that they have not allowed an investigation, that they have not convinced us of the explanations, that they have prevented appearances. Listen, I can get it out of you in Din A3, which is bigger, as you see, January 27th: "The opposition – the opposition, too, Mr.Hernandez – calls for the resignation of Councilwoman Sagardui"; February 12th, the request for deferred reprobation that we are dealing with today, that you had the conviction. It's a shame I've left Mr. Iturgaiz, because I've been good at the first one, but Mrs. Garrido, it's not even waiting for 27. Let's go to Mr Iturgaiz's twitter and go to the date that she says that Mrs Sagardui must resign, 22 January, 22 January, had not published wasap, there was nothing more than an appearance of the counselor saying that there were some facts and had ceased and had resigned one of the high offices. It's just that that's the reality, that's the reality. The appearances, I say again, of 12 appearances that have requested, of 12, nine are subsequent to the resignation and termination of the counsellor and the registration of the reprobation. Nine out of 12, by the way, all PP's, by the way, all PP's. So, what I think is that when we look at the citizenry that has put us here, what they ask us to do is to have a certain consistency. Of course, in the face of certain facts, responsibilities must be called for, but since January 20, those responsibilities were put on the table with the cessation and resignation of the two responsible. And I repeat again, Mrs. Garrido, that it comes out here on the open chest. But this has not happened in autonomous communities where you ruled, where a counselor and more than 400 senior officials and officials were irregularly immunized. I'm talking about Murcia. And it was the councilman himself who got away with it, the councilman himself who got away with it. And what did the president of the Murcia People's Party say? He trusted him. Then the media ended up doing their job and could not contain the pressure. And he quit. But since the 20th, when we were at that appearance, you were, you were, you were, Mr. Telleria was and I was, the counselor told us, "Acts: quit and quit." January 20th. Information has been provided. There have been up to four occasions when the counselor has appeared. You have repeated many times many phrases that the media have collected. It's just that this is the good thing, that there's hemerotheque. It's just that if I can go out with the hemeroteca today, it's because you said so. Here the citizens have come to hear that a commission of inquiry had to be made. They've heard it on multiple occasions. And citizens need to know that this committee of inquiry has never been requested in this Parliament, because no opposition group has registered it. You have wanted to do a semi-mission of research, with appearances, which you raise after you have registered the initiative we are debating today to reprimand the councilwoman. I don't think that's the way. Look, there are facts that should never have happened, which the department explained and, in addition, took the most guarantee measures, which is to remove those senior officials from their posts. From there, appropriate measures have been taken to ensure that these facts cannot be repeated. And the department, today, with us, is focused on what really concerns the citizenry, which is the vaccination process. I said that last week, and with this I finish, Madam President, despite the agglomerations, of which during all these months have been added to the "all evil, all good, this does not work", we are fulfilling the milestones. Despite you, we're meeting the vaccination milestones. I hope that, from now on, the next milestones we meet can be with you, but it is in your hand. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u65	Thank you, Mr. Rico. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u66	I'm out of my mind. Look, Mrs. Ubera, you have acknowledged that they filed the reprimand in February and activated it in May, to see if at that time they were right or not on the charge of lying. That's bad. Tell me what you want, but that's what I told you that's what we're doing. Let's see if that... Look, since July 12th last year when you lost the election, instead of assuming that participating in an election is that, participating as in sport. They think it's just winning. And they didn't agree to lose. And they have, from the very beginning, worked to shake the Basque Government and used the Department of Health and, in particular, the pandemic as a ram. Everything that was pandemic, wood. The masks, the PCRs, the tracking... Everything was wrong. Or if they did, they did little, they were late. It's all been like this all the time. And they have found the solidarity of the PP-Citizens group on a permanent basis. 95% of the motions and GNP from September to here are agreed with them. From time to time, someone used to do Celestine, because since the PP gives you the chance to sign the transactions, it used Celestine to incorporate the contributions into the PP amendments, so that you would all vote for it together. That was one day and the other, until it reached the list of the commission of inquiry that was being investigated. By the way, if they sting on Google PP or We can avoid appearances, you'll see the list that comes out of them, you'll see the list that comes out of them. I mean, it's something... And then, in addition, they have been permanently using false data. Statistics are a conformation of mathematics that is, in principle, accurate. But if we don't take it in its entirety, we take pieces, we subjectiveize them and we don't see the context, it's enormously lying. And you have also used it as a ram. I, by the way, just to be clear, have brought myself data. Not for a week, campaign. Number of PCR tests in 2021 per 100,000, 44.700; Spain 37,000. People infected throughout the pandemic: Euskadi, 5.9%; Spain, seven. Hospitalizations accumulated since the beginning per 100,000: Euskadi 601; Spain 704. UCI revenue from the beginning per 100,000: Euskadi 51.2, Spain 60.3. Complete rate vaccines: Euskadi 14.5%, Spain 13%. It changes every day. Vaccines, at least one dose: Euskadi 35.8; Spain 30.9. And the bloodiest thing, because the other day, in a radio chat, a colleague of yours said that Euskadi is not the one who has the most mortality in Spain or Europe. The world, the world. And it stayed so wide. It is very difficult to know the deaths by covid, because if it is with covid or by covid it is very complex. The only way and try to calculate it is to see the difference in deaths in one season and another, similar, and try to impute, as the only variable that changes is the pandemic, try to impute a high percentage of that rise to the pandemic. Good. Taking the period from 21 January 19 to 8 March 20, and after 9 March 2020 to 25 April 21, there are 10.6% more deaths in Euskadi. In Spain, a 19.2. Being the lowest 2,1, Canarias, and the largest Madrid, with a 38, 7. Here's the data. From there, I can ask myself, and what does all the wood they give us and the alliance with PP-Citizens come from? Until I fell. You're already going to Madrid, and you're enjoying that. And the same goes for the Basque Greek Y, which we are satisfied with, but you have also seen that the opposition in Madrid that the People's Party does is that of a ram and you do not let the government rule and it is permanently giving wood, and you have gone a little bit and you have brought the model and you have imported it here because, in the end, you are the same model, it is not to contribute anything, it is to shake. We've come this far. With your lies, your obsessions, you can continue with manipulations. This government will continue to work in honesty and transparency and for everyone's good. You've been involved with a verdict you've written for a long time. Now you'll find the next one to keep off the train of lies. Meanwhile, the chief physician and his team are still working to protect our health. And see that even you have noticed that, that you have brought on Thursday a health GNP that you have taken out of the pleistocene, that you have activated it, because you know that the PP is against, and it has nothing to do with the pandemic, to launch the new message. We're not always with the pandemic and we're not always with the PP, that's exactly what they got for next Thursday. Well, if this is your tactic, if this is your tactic, although sometimes we find it uncomfortable, even, there are days in the committee unpleasant, I encourage you to follow it. And in three years we'll see each other again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u67	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. After discussion, we'll vote the original text of the other proposal as the EH Collector. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 40; votes given, 74; supporters, 27; contrarys, 41; Abstations, 6; white; 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u68	So it's not accepted. Together we vote for the full-line correction of the Podemos-IU team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 40; votes given, 74; supporters, 33; contrary, 41; Abstations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u69	Not accepted. And finally, we vote for the entire correction of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadans. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 40; votes given, 74; supporters, 33; contrary, 41; Abstations, 0; white; 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u70	Not accepted. Five point in theme list: "Pune other words concerning the prices and prices of the vintage planted in Errioxa of the Arbaan. Discipline and final resolution. In turn of the proposed team, Mrs. EH Collect Group has the word, in order to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u71	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Well, we'll talk about wine again tonight. It's two weeks since our team defended an illegal proposal to help the little and family warehouses in the Errisha of Arbaa. We were required to acknowledge the importance of the country and its inhabitants as essential, social, and somnatum, for the maintenance of their inhabitants. In helping us to work with the corporate agencies, to the reality of the sector, and, more especially, to study a specific line of direct subsidies adapted to pym and micro businessmen. Yes, and other degrees of help to support their financial and social competency. Between these sizes, we asked the Red Beetle to internationalize the local consumption of the Errix of Aranka and encourage the digitalization of those companies. And even if the initiative left our team, you remember, we made an agreement with the groups that support the government and the Podemos-IU. I thank you again. And I am especially grateful because I believe that the agreement is the result of the fact that the situation in the region really worries us and that all groups recognize that it is not as idyllic as it sometimes seems. We speak of a region with a landscape that can be declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO, with quality and fame of its wines recognized at national and international level, with projects worthy of Falcon Crest, with the hand of prestigious architects at world level. But, we say it two weeks ago and we repeat it again today, this whole image contradicts the reality of the emptying peoples, of the small and medium-sized wineries and of the wine-growers who year after year cease their activity forever in the absence of relief or in the absence of a worthy future. The other day, we talked about the difficulties that these small and average companies have to compete in the market with great cellars. Instead of based on equality, we required a foundation in equity, to balance the balance, to guarantee the duration of the small ones. In the last five years of the last five of those great barns, we reported that the equality of conditions has been run by Euko 62% of the applicants. One of them, who is among the ten cellars that pay the most in Spain, was accused of having paid nearly five of the money. In the press, the next day, and the aftermath, the discussion echoed. And, to tell the truth, we seem to be lying to ourselves, using hundreds of hundreds as they interest us, half telling the truth, as if this solves the problem, as if we changed reality with it. And no, it's not that simple. Some of those companies that get a lot of money don't do things the right way. Besides making wine from the Errix of Abarah with the grapes of Syria, our grapes, which our vines have kept with great care, are paying for the prices of misery. Not all wineries pay badly. That's clear. But the four largest, the largest volume of grapes they manage, are paying at 0.50 and 0.55 euros per kilo. One of them, in particular, which is also listed in the ranking of the 10 companies in the sector that charge the most in Spain, the second that the most money has collected over the last five years, has paid the white grape at less than 0.50 euros per kilo and the ink below 0.60. Another of the big ones has paid the ink at 0.55, and has also announced to farmers that next year they will not buy it. This is a full-time layoff. The green grape, which has remained uncollected, has been paid by the Ministry, through the Basque Government, at 65 cents per kilo, more than some wineries have paid for the kilo of grapes. It seems that sometimes it comes out more profitable to leave the grape without picking it up than to deliver it without knowing at what price it will be paid. It is a shame, an insult to the dedication and work of these people, a impairment of their dignity. It is no wonder that the vineyards that were so far in the hands of farmers are passing through the hands of large wineries that will hire cheap labor to continue producing grapes at an increasingly low price. How is it possible that with the huge amounts of money they are collecting they will not be able to pay fair and dignified prices to the people who produce the raw material? And I would say more, how from the administration, knowing that this is happening, do not take letters in the matter and leave out calls to wineries that do not comply with the law of the food chain? Companies that have debts to the Administration, to Social Security, for example, are left out of the calls for grants. Why is it not the same with those who, taking advantage of their position of dominance in the market, ruin and strangle the future of the people working in the first sector? As far as I know, we all work for a salary. In some cases, there may be a vocation, an explanation, a millionaire, but we all need a salary at the end of the month. Besides, in any sector there are required worthy compacts, stability. Why? Oh, come on. Not because, for a project, for a future, it is indispensable that there should be minimal stability. This year they pay you a price of misery, and at the same time they tell you that they won't buy your grapes for the next year. Oh, that's funny. Not because the company's in crisis, but because it's looking for more profit. Who's going to go on with a business with a galley? Who wants to take the relay or start the record with these numbers? Thus the producers remain without futures, projects, and receipts, and the land is in the hands of few companies. The other day, we said, pure speculation. 1,700 families [are] a vineyardkeeper in Errioxan of Arbatah, 6% of the families of Errisha, They work separately or together, and live chiefly in their vineyards from the fruit which they reap. It's a big company, isn't it? That's one of the 1,700 families. Let's take care of his future, or we'll be out of business. Loud and clear. In order to avoid the demands of the law of the Chainage, fraud contracts under those of production are a reality in the daily life of Errioxe of Araba. This practice is quite common to some of the most powerful antics. The grapes don't know when they'll be paid, or when they'll get paid. I don't think we would have easily accepted such conditions as this for our work. Let's do something about it. The greenhouses need help. Okay, but they're gonna have to follow the rules, right? The food shall be fulfilled in the law of Kate, and the prices of justice shall be paid. They'll have to guarantee worthy promises to the workers. The administration must at least demand it. All without exception, but with more reason, to those who have proved the volume and rotation of business. It's up to them to do what's right. And it's the administration responsibility to guarantee that. For this purpose it was required, in the other proposition of our own law, that the observance of the Laws of Elicage, and the payment of grapes over the produce, should be necessary. Besides this, we proposed to set up a calm on the bases of the Errix of Arada to reward the wine of Errisha. It is not a question of leaving others without subsidies, it is not a question of discarding anybody; it is the purpose to promote the wines produced by the local grapes. The bigger percentage, the higher the scores for subsidizing. On this occasion, too, we have tried to reach the broadest possible agreement. Looking at the amendments tabled by the other groups, we made them a proposal that we believe is reasonable and generous, taking into account the agreements reached in other institutions. It is true that with this proposal we gave up quite a lot of ground, but we also believe that the compromise we have reached represents a step forward in the commitment to obtain decent and fair prices for grapes. We urge the Government to increase the quality and food industry control in the inspection of contracts for the sale of grapes, in order to protect winegrowers and to pay the grapes over production costs. We haven't reached the goal, but it's a good start. In addition, the fact that the basis for the aid takes account of the percentage of grapes produced in the Rioja Alavesa represents an important advance for the profitability not only of wine-growers, but also of small wineries and family wineries which, for the most part, produce their wine with raw materials from the region. Incentivizing that practice seems to us to be a key contribution. Finally, the involvement of the Basque Government and the Provincial Council of Álava in advising, training and helping wine-growers to improve their economic, social and environmental performance is also essential for the viability of the sector. The chief of the Tapias declared that the raucian Errisha grapes of the Ararix were to be put to work for the wines that use at 85%. And it's not a bad start, but we should consider that 15% of the foreign grape is not a big volume when we talk about pym and micropres, but that it's no big deal if we're talking about big cellars, thousands of gallons of wine a year. It's a lot of grapes to be brought cheaply from another country, with grapes of higher quality in the country. Therefore we believe that the tendency to succeed, the end, that the wines of Errisha of Abarah must be made to produce with the grapes of Errisha, which is paid by respect for the productions of the Errixa of Abarbah. If it's our business, let's take care of it. Today we have seen in the press the conclusions of a study carried out by the Board of Agriculture of La Rioja. We take this opportunity to encourage the Government to do something similar here. It would be very good to know the dimension of the problem. In 2020 the average production costs of grapes in La Rioja ranged from 0.67 to 0.68 euro/kilo in ink to 0.55 to 0.56 euro/kilo in white. The report says that the average prices received are slightly below these costs. Slightly? They have already heard the prices I mentioned before; they have been paid in the Rioja Alavesa. They're official prices, with bills that show them. White grape less than 50 cents per kilo and ink less than 60 cents per kilo. How is that possible? It is possible because most contracts incorporate clauses in which the winegrower who delivers the grapes says that he does so above his costs. As you usually say, made the law, made the trap. Do winegrowers have another option? Yeah. Of course I do. Defend your dignity and not hand over the grapes at these prices. Which would mean leaving them without picking them up from the vineyard. Is that an option? We must prevent prices from being fixed from the domain positions of some wineries. Especially when they do not comply with the law. Value is being lost in the first link in the wine sector and we must not allow it. And this is not something new. It is not a practice that has been made public by the crisis that has accompanied the pandemic. It is a previous practice and unfortunately also occurs in other productions of raw materials, such as beet, potato, cereal, cow's milk and sheep's milk, beef cattle, etc. We will not tire of saying that the survival of the sector depends on the balance between the different parts that make up the gear. In the case we are dealing with today, wine-growers who take care of the vineyard with dedication, who transform the grape to produce quality wines and who market them in the different markets. Breaking this balance is tantamount to making the future of one of the key players in the sector and the region itself economically and socially unworkable. Wine-growers and harvesters need our commitment to once and for all value their work and the quality of their grapes. We have reached an important agreement in this respect with PNV and PSE and which Podemos-IU will support. I also thank you today for your willingness and interest in negotiating. This demonstrates once again the concern that awakens this problem in the various groups and the interest in solving it. It has not been possible to reach a full agreement with the PP-Citizens group. And I have to say it's a shame, because the deal is good, it has content, as Mr. Barrio asked us two weeks ago. In any case, I also thank you for your willingness to add. I think it's our responsibility. Let us stop looking the other way, let us stop adorning reality and camouflage injustice and put on our batteries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Passing over to the teams who have issued the corrections, the representative of the Basque Popular Group-Ciudadans, Mr. Barrio, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u73	Yeah. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Good. Indeed, in a few weeks we have spoken twice about the Rioja Alavesa and wine and to understand that the wine sector has suffered a very important crisis and needs aid and needs support and understanding. The first thing we have to do is to encourage the sector, encourage farmers and people working in the wine sector. And well, and also encourage the Administration, the Administrations, the various Administrations, to be sensitive, to apply those aids that we have talked about and to work to fix the problems. This debate has been held recently, six months ago, at the General Councils in Álava. A virtually identical debate. When Mrs Etxebarria was speaking, I was even remembering the words of my colleague López de Foronda talking about the same things, about the green grape that is thrown away, about the sector, that in addition to the grape and wine we have to talk about the beet or other things, or about the potato. And, in that sense, I have seen that it is the same debate. So what we can do is to influence or deepen a little more six months later, here, in what was already identified as a serious situation six months ago on the General Boards with that agreement. We therefore intend in our amendment as a whole, in the first point – point two went up, talked about agriculture, but there was a beet issue that, logically, was not for this debate – to reproduce what was said at the General Councils in Álava. I remember that because at the General Councils of Álava it was an absolute majority agreement. In the first place, they urged the Álava Provincial Council to carry out, within four months, a detailed technical report on the costs of the cultivation of Alavesa river on a medium-sized holding in the production models of glass and shoulder. Six months later, here he talks about four, the congress has not done this study. In other words, the Government of La Rioja has done the relevant studies in relation to the situation, but the Foral Diputación de Álava has not done so. Neither did the Basque Government. But the Álava Foral Diputation has not done one thing that was entrusted to it at that time. And we regret it, because that would have also been a sign of wanting to know the problem, of wanting to know how to help and identify the problems. Again, the Government of La Rioja has done so, it is hanging on its website, but the Álava Foral Diputación has failed to fulfil a mandate and we regret it. That was a good thing that we could also have transferred to the Basque Government: to ask it and to know all that information. In that agreement, which we wanted to move, the General Councils of Álava urged what should be called the Food Information and Control Agency, the AICA, to control the rights and obligations set out in the food chain law, instructing or initiating the sanctioning procedure, increasing the inspections on their own initiative in collaboration with the Autonomous Communities, the Basque Country, and the agricultural professional organizations. The AICA is the competent, not the address referred to in the compromise amendment. It does have value, but AICA is the competent one and AICA is the one that acts, and AICA is the one that controls and supervises this whole issue. And that's why it was fine, it was better what the general meetings approved than the compromise amendment, it identified this issue much better. The AICA is not yet transferred, the AICA has to do those issues. The third point of the general meetings called on the Basque Government to take account of the percentage of grapes produced in Rioja Alavesa used for the production of wines in the regulatory bases for processing and marketing aid. This is there. And that is also discussed in this proposal. And finally, everything about counseling, to facilitate using the tools at your fingertips. Well, it was there, that was the fundamental element, that was the agreement. We have basically seen that reproduced by changing the number one point substantially. And, in that sense, we will call for a separate vote, because we will basically vote in favour of the initiative, except for point number one, where we will abstain from that discrepancy in relation to the expression of AICA. AICA is competent and is not transferred at the moment, so it has to be present. The other day we were also talking about the absence of the Rioja Regulatory Council in relation to which it has very important functions to perform, and in the amendment of the other day nothing came, no reference to the Regulatory Council. Today, in this compromise amendment, the AICA does not come, in relation to its functions. We think and believe that the Food Information and Control Agency, AICA, is an autonomous body. It is attached to the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food through the General Secretariat of Agriculture and Food. It was created by law to improve the functioning of the food chain, in order to control the rights and obligations set out in that law. It initiates and instructs the sanctioning procedure and detects violations, as requested here, that the violations can be detected, and those controls that must be carried out by the AICA, the inspection of the contracts for the sale of grapes, the AICA, not the management, the AICA carries out them ex officio, last year were approximately 50, the ones that carried out the last campaign. That is to say, there are the keys, which disappear this autonomous body attached to the Ministry of Agriculture, who must carry them out disappears from this compromise amendment. Therefore, the first point we cannot support in its entirety, because we understand that AICA still has to be called on to participate, and precisely, if control has to be effective, it has to be done primarily through the Spanish Agency for Food Information and Control. Point number two. Good. We have already said that it is also part of what has already been said at the General Councils in Álava in that debate. And we understand that the funding indexed to Rioja grape purchases is already being implemented. But it must be borne in mind that many wineries, many small and medium-sized wineries located next to the Ebro, buy grapes on the other side of the Ebro, for many reasons, for reasons of price, for reasons of ownership, for reasons of volume, quality. Well, there are many reasons and that's still a practice and it's a reality that can't be curtailed, of course, and that must be taken into account, in any case, by assessing what Rioja Alavesa is and evaluating that implementation and that taking into account where the grapes are. And, in that sense, it has already been said both at the general meetings and now and we will agree. And the third point, there it is, wine-growing advice is the competence of the Chamber. We think that in some way it does it de facto, that is, that what this amendment can be is a reminder, to say something, of what is already done in theory: to advise, to form, to provide tools in the field of viticulture. All this is the competence of the parliament, it does it de facto. What interests winegrowers and wineries, what really interests them right now, and that has been transmitted, is that there should be a seat of the regulatory council, for example, in Laguardia, where there are infrastructures that have already worked in relation to wine. My group has repeatedly called for this, the fact that the regulatory board is also present for these proximity, counselling and promotion functions; it would be more comfortable and more effective to carry out many procedures, and that, of course, needs to be studied. That is why we would also have seen well that in some way the Regulatory Council had also been called upon for such advisory work, because it is a very important actor. In that regard, there are the issues. We reiterate a debate at the General Councils in Álava. We, I have explained the reasons, will vote in favour of the compromise amendment, except for the first point, because for reasons of not mentioning the agency referred to, of the AICA, we cannot fully agree. But in any case, we will abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u74	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u75	President, ladies and gentlemen. It seems reasonable to us the initiative presented by Bildu, and that is precisely why we have done a teamwork between different groups in order to be able to sign a compromise amendment, with which, as I see it, the People's Party-Citizens, in some way, also agrees, although Mr Barrio has got a little mixed up with the AICA, which does not disappear from the scene. Simply, in the amendment, let us say that there is one more element of control, of inspection, which is the Directorate for Quality and Food Industries. But let's say they're complementary jobs and then the ability to do things for everyone depends on the legal support they have, what the law allows them to do. AICA, in fact, has the power to sanction, moreover, is an initiative that has emerged from a government of its party and which has subsequently been modified. It is also in the process of being modified, because it wants to have more tools, more instruments, because I believe that we all share that in the food chain we must give value to all the agents and especially to those who are the weakest link, who are the producers. I believe that there is a statement that can be made solemnly, and that is that the agri-food sector is competitive. It is competitive, can move perfectly through the market, has a market, has prestige and is able to reach not only the food needs of our country, but also for export. The problem lies in the balance and in the game that is made in the different links of that value chain, where certainly the marketer has a greater ability to obtain performance; even sometimes it is played and speculated with agri-food products, and the producer is always in a certain disadvantage position, because he needs to produce and sell, because he has no capacity to store, because he has no capacity to transform and because many times they are very perishable products that need the next step, processing and marketing, which is already in other hands. This initiative aims to do what is within our capabilities, from the Basque Parliament and from the Basque Government, to help ensure that this element of competitiveness, which does have the agri-food sector, means that it has a balanced profitability between its various components. This is why the aim is to protect, in this case, the grape-producing sector, to protect the price of the cost of the grape, even with a profitability, not only to pay for the cost of production, but also to have a profitability, because it is the only way that there can be a future and that there can be generational relief and that many autonomous and many small enterprises that are engaged in the production of the grape can be sustained. We also want to help train this sector, to advise this sector to achieve better returns in production, in quality, in economy, and better social returns, in short, and also better environmental returns, and we want to strengthen inspection systems so that they can follow those contracts that are already required by law and that are going to be more enforceable by law, because producers are entitled to sign a contract, namely what price will be paid, and also to know when they will be paid, and also that these contracts can never be below those production costs. This, indeed, is a law which already protects it, and which is also being strengthened at the moment, as is also being done throughout Europe. Therefore, the initiative has its importance, it is a support to the producer sector, in this case the grape, but it certainly has a greater extension. That is to say, it has a philosophy that affects producers of agri-food products, that are the weakest link in the chain and that they are the ones to be helped most from public administrations and from parliamentary activity, as we are currently doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u76	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians, Mrs. Molina, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good noon to all. "The price for sheltered ink grapes shall be the average harvest price ±35 %". That phrase is drawn from this contract from the last campaign to produce wines covered by the Rioja designation of origin. The most important clause of a purchase sale in which grapes are sold without price. A contract that encourages the instability and uncertainty of the winegrower. A contract that doesn't talk about quantities. We and we know up to the last cent we're going to collect and when it's going to be entered into the account. They know all the expenses, but they don't know what they're going to charge. Doesn't seem logical, does it? That's not happening in any market. We are debating something as obvious as respecting the cost price and the work of the grape producers, who are remunerating the farmer for their work. Because to dignify a brand you have to dignify the farmer. The price is cost and profit, selling below costs is unsustainable, and selling to cover them makes no sense. Of course, not all wineries pay low prices for grapes. In fact, there are wineries that pay better in appreciation for the work of winegrowers. However, this should not be an exception, but a rule. That is why it is necessary to highlight those wineries which pay badly, below the production costs or which, under the threat of not buying you the grapes, abuse their suppliers. Because the winegrowers of the Rioja Alavesa work with mime and offer high quality grapes. And the quality, ladies and gentlemen, must be paid for. It cannot be accepted that they do not get just benefits from their work, because they are, moreover, the people who keep alive. They are essential to maintain the value chain and the region. And a qualified designation of origin cannot allow this to happen. There are many factors that make the winegrower always suffer the consequences. One of them, the Rioja Qualified Origin Regulatory Council, which looks elsewhere and does not protect our winegrowers and which marks the campaign guidelines with performances that, on many occasions, harm them. A system based on volume and not on quality, which is what represents the Rioja Alavesa and its wines. A qualified designation of origin cannot be allowed to have badly paid grapes, and, of course, it cannot be that profitability is at the cost of growing, growing and continuing to grow in litres. It's another factor, the threat that before the vintage campaign begins, a few cellars have been launched every year, announcing the deplorable prices of trying to establish the market price. On the other hand, though there are so many observations on the productions of manufactures, yet it is very difficult to establish minimum official prices, because the cost of the vineyards are complex, and are extremely variable, either in area or in the manner of agriculture. The internal factors produce the profiles of the vine-keeper, the objects of production, the quality of the grape, the age of the vineyard, and the variety of the outward factors, as the environmental conditions vary from one field to another, and from one land to another, so that the cost changes every year. Every campaign is different, and production costs change, and unfortunately, due to meteorological changes, they're over years old. Besides, the production of the Errioxa of Araba is more valuable than in other countries, because their manner of working is conditioned, and the small parcels they suppose to be much larger than those of production. These studies, which serve as reference, mark general indexes, which do not represent the individual cost of each farmer. It is impossible to establish a minimum price for the European Union and its established legislation to prevent it. Focusing on the rules, the current food chain law provides that each operator must pay to the previous operator immediately a price equal to or greater than the actual cost of production in which it actually incurred or assumed that operator. This law has recently been amended by Royal Decree Law 5/2020 of 25 February to make it more compromising. And, although these changes are positively valued, we consider them to be short, because the law in many cases remains unfulfilled and because it does not include, for example, the prohibition of loss sales in the last link. There is even a lack of instruments for compliance, such as the difficulty of calculating the actual costs of production to which I have referred. Therefore, from the Basque Nationalist Party we demand that the control, inspection and sanction actions be carried out from the Basque Government, since these actions are currently very limited, because the Information and Control Agency, under the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, is responsible for inspecting, controlling and punishing, as provided for in article 26. The competence to control contracts lies with the AICA and the autonomous communities, while the sanctioning power lies with the AICA, by virtue of where the operators involved in the commercial relationship are. If they are in different autonomous communities, as is the case with the Rioja designation of origin, it is the AICA that is competent to sanction; and when, because of the foreseeable traceability of most of the product, that is, because of the forecast that this product will come out of that community, it is also the AICA that has that sanctioning power. That is why, from our group, we believe that the State should award itself the sanctioning capacity in those matters in which even the contracting parties are of the autonomous community itself according to a planned traceability. How do you rate the foreseeable? It is difficult to believe that the most substantial contracts will not affect a higher area of the autonomous community. I insist that the competence of the communities in this area is very limited. But, despite the limitations, our administration protects winegrowers with the resources it has at its disposal. When it has found that one of the wineries has not properly complied with the agreed contract, it has intervened to find a solution, as was acknowledged in this Parliament by the Sailburu Tapia. In order for the Basque Government to continue to work in that direction, we consider it essential that it has strong control and inspection mechanisms that will end the abuse suffered by many winegrowers. From our group we will also continue to work, as we have always done, on behalf of our viticulture to dignify the sector and improve the conditions of winegrowers so that they have fair prices and thus maintain their way of life. Just as we will continue to work on the recognition of the identity and quality of the Rioja Alavesa. Why don't we follow the example of Bordeaux, where the kilo of grapes is paid between 5 and 7 euros? While here we talk about cents, there they talk about euros. Farmers in other European regions live on less hectares than a wine-grower here. So, working less. If our grapes are different, we'll have to pay for them. Let's follow the example of what works, because it's a guarantee of survival. And I'm talking about paying for quality, and I'm talking about differentiation, quality versus quantity, decent prices and quality, from the future to the end for the Rioja Alavesa. We must seek balance and provide security for the winegrowers of the region. To that end, we have come to a compromise amendment, and I would like to thank Bildu for this amendment. Well, I don't want to repeat myself much, my colleagues have already mentioned it. At the first point, we were calling for increased controls; as I have explained, it seems essential to us that the Basque Government has strong instruments to help put an end to this low-priced payment, without, of course, prejudice to the framework to be carried out by AICA, and that the food chain law is complied with. Therefore, what we are dealing with here, as Mr Prieto has said, is to do the duties here. Then, in the second point, we also urged the Government to take account of the percentage of Rioja Alavesa grapes in the aid regulatory bases. Here, for example, in Lehiatu, it is already planned to take account of the purchase of the local raw material for these aids, although it seems logical to us that we must encourage this number and continue with initiatives such as Basque Wine, which includes wine references which have at least 85% Euskadi grape. And on the third point, of course, also, that we continue with this advice, as is already done with Hazi, with Neiker or with La Casa del Vino, because this collaboration is essential for the sector to stay alive and remain in the best conditions. In short, we believe that this is a good agreement. Next Saturday, day 15, will be Rural World Day, and this agreement seems to us the best way to celebrate it and to claim a living rural world. And that is why I encourage Mr Barrio to be brave and to vote for the whole amendment as a whole, because I insist that we are not relegating to AICA, we are not removing competences from it. If you want, another day we discuss the competence of AICA, delighted, so that it is ours, but for the moment we are urging the Government to here, within its competence, because it can increase those revisions so that the controls are more effective. And, to conclude, I want to value the authentic and unique potential we have. With joint work we can make the Rioja Alavesa a world-leading wine region, because it has all the components to be. To do this, we must pay our winegrowers, to dignify their work, to give them stability, to avoid the vats of the price of the grapes, to attract women to the sector, to achieve generational relief and to continue to develop the region. And that, I insist, is achieved from the responsibility and commitment of wineries, winegrowers, institutions, the regulatory council and society. Everyone has to be involved. Says the saying that grapes with cheese taste like kisses. And I dare say that well-paid grapes should be sacred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Molina. Together the representative of the Podemos-IU team, Mr. Soto, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u79	Okay. What has to be the last or last is that almost everything is said. But, in any case, I will be motivating the reason why we are going to vote in favour of the compromise proposal, and I will also reiterate, as was the case right now, the invitation to the People's-Citizens Group to join, basically because we believe that, just as it was done at the Álava Councils, it is important to show unity here on a matter we believe we share. Turning to the substantive issue, it has already been mentioned that the law on measures to improve the functioning of the food chain addressed the problem created by the difference in market power of actors involved in the food chain. It is known for being a frequent issue in the media and also for being an issue strongly denounced by the working groups: that the law is not being complied with and that the control and sanction measures are not applied to the extent or intensity that should be done. Throughout the Spanish geography there have been complaints from winegrowers. For example, COAG denounced coercion to winegrowers to sign contracts with prices below cost. In September 2020, we also knew that low prices, far from the production costs set by the Ministry of Agriculture, dynamite the harvest. And so it is reflected in different media and complaints made by different groups. Several wineries, and it has already been said here, imposed tables that barely exceeded 50 cents in contracts. The Ministry of Agriculture has set between €0.65 and €0.67 the cost of one kilo of ink grape, according to the 2019 campaign, and 54 cents for white grape. On the other hand, in many contracts of large warehouses what was done, and has already been mentioned, was to include clauses in our view absolutely illegal, which sought to skip what has to do with the distribution chain and what the law fixes. And they added a vest in which they basically forced the seller to fix in the contract that the actual cost of production of the grape was the one contained in the contract, not being real. And this has been a practice that has been happening over time. And there has been no measure to put an end to it with the intensity that we believe is necessary. It therefore seems clear that monitoring the proper implementation of the Food Chain Improvement Act should be a priority for all public authorities. And also incorporating incentives into aid programmes for wineries can also be a useful and timely boost to achieve value sharing in the wine production chain. Let us not forget, and it has been mentioned before, that the Minister for Economic Development and Infrastructure of the Basque Government, Arantxa Tapia, increased in July 2020 the limit of subsidized financing aid, which increased from 200,000 euros to 1,500,000 euros. This issue was a petition that was being moved by different groups and that was fulfilled. It seems appropriate and reasonable to require that such aid also be used to ensure the sustainability of the entire production chain. We believe that this transaction requires our support. Point 2 of the compromise proposal sets out a timely measure in view of the announced liberalisation of vine cultivation introduced by the European Union, as Rioja Alavesa has no possibility of expanding the cultivated areas, and this liberalisation could result in a loss of market share in favour of producers located in the Autonomous Community of La Rioja, where more land is available to increase production. It seems reasonable to protect the winegrower of the Rioja Alavesa, who can face greater pressure on the prices of grapes in the future because of the increase in the number of hectares cultivated beyond the Ebro. In this respect, therefore, the proposal made in the second point seems appropriate to us. With regard to the third, in fact – and this has already been said on more than one occasion when we have dealt with this issue – agriculture is a fundamental activity for the conservation of the territory, the fixing of the population in rural areas and the preservation of a cultural heritage of great value. It is true that it would have been desirable for the compromise proposal, as in the original, to specify a little more the part referring to this third point, but, in any case, it seems to us that it opens up an opportunity to put forward models of sustainable development supporting the wine-growing and wine-growing activity in the Rioja Alavesa. It should not be forgotten, moreover, that this group has one of the highest unemployment rates in Euskadi and that there is also a loss of population and an ageing population. An intelligent strategy that complements agricultural activity with training activities, innovation, the establishment of technological observatories and the dissemination of best practices would not only ensure the sustainability of the sector, but can also create new activities and new opportunities for the region. In this regard, we believe that the proposed transaction is good news, also coinciding with the date mentioned, and we believe that we should show support for this transaction by all the parliamentary groups represented here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u80	Thank you, Mr. Soto. Does anyone want to join the answering shift? Nobody? Collect EH.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u81	Thank you again, ma'am. Simply by answering a little bit and abounding a bit on some of the issues that have been addressed. What Mr Barrio has said about the AICA and the Directorate for Quality and Food Industries, I think Mr Prieto and Mrs Molina have answered, and we also think that everyone, to the extent of their possibilities and from the different stages, must be involved in control. Then we believe that one thing does not remove the other, so I would also like to reiterate what the other groups have said to him, which would be interesting if he also supported the first point. Anyway, I'd like to comment on some little thing that the other day I also had a little bit left in the tinker. Our team presented two initiatives. last week for the little cellars and the family houses of Errisha of Abak, the worthy price of the grapes of the land. And it seems to us a very important step that the legislatures, thanks to our two enterprises, should support these two collectives, the vineyard keepers, and the collective cellars of small cellars. Especially because these two collectives are the weaker and the most vulnerable, because they collect the people and families of the 23 nations of the Araguaia, and are essential to the social cohesion and social development of the region. But on the first day and on the present day it has been mentioned, when we speak of the matter at last, we mention the project of the Mahasts of the Arab, and sometimes it seems that this is the case. And we think it's useful for the sector. I think we're the only ones in this Chamber who make a clean bet for that project, and we're accused of it for political interests, and it's not the way it is, and I'd like to make it clear. It is clear that the Rioja designation of origin has an image, a brand and a recognized international prestige. Few wines are now in the world with such a strong market position, and this is an indisputable issue. Now, we said the other day, and we reiterate today, that Viñedos de Álava is an initiative, a project that has emerged from the wineries themselves, from the sector itself, out of pure necessity and not by whim, because they see that their interests, their business model are ninged in the regulatory council, and they are demanding a denomination that will be an option, not an obligation for the wineries of the region. And it seems to us that we must support this and other initiatives from the sector to improve the future. Just as the option to follow in Rioja's designation of origin is supported, exactly the same. We believe that we must respect the actors in the sector, who are the ones who know their reality, their strengths and their weaknesses best. In any case, we would also like to stress that the discontent with the functioning of the Rioja regulatory council is not exclusive on this side of the mug, which also on the other side, as in this, the situation, paradoxically, shocks. While European aid has made millions of investments and large companies from other parts of the state settle in La Rioja, the bleeding of wineries and wine growers in the area has become a constant in recent years. 53 wineries and 3,000 wine-growers less in a decade: 10% wine-growers and 16% wine-growers less. And we wonder where the regulatory board has been. As here, the Association Bodegas Familiares de Rioja denounces that the casualties are among its ranks, and denounces that the decisions of the Regulatory Council are taken taking precedence over the quantity of quality. Lack of support, and – I read textual words – denounce that "in this system only survives by growing in hectares or in volume of production with the control of large companies and multinationals, for which Rioja is only a part of its business and that in the face of the blindness of the institutions do much harm to those who bet on that land and to those who invest their assets exclusively". I would like to continue to say that, in the light of the report by the Government of La Rioja, which I mentioned earlier, the Rioja Group has been hasty to ensure that its wineries have complied with the food chain law, and that production costs reflect the hours worked by wine-growers and family support. We think it's just that it couldn't be any other way. He also said that the aid received was not collected. As can be seen again, the industry is trying to compensate for the prices of poverty with the aid of winegrowers; the same is true of beet and other raw materials. The Asaja union complains that the prices calculated in the study are not only below production costs, but also do not correspond to most of the operations that were closed last season. I think it is quite clear that the demands are the same on the one side and on the other side of the muda between Álava and La Rioja, and that it is not a matter of politics, but of the need for survival and modeling. We reiterate the need to take into account the demands of these agents and respect their ability to know what is best for their business. We respect your right to defend him. We believe that, given the willingness to cooperate, empathy and mutual respect, it is possible to evolve without leaving anyone behind. I think we have taken one more step in this direction today. Again, to all groups, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Houseland. Popula, yes, from there, Mr. Barri.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u83	Thank you very much, President. Briefly, for two questions. The first, for us, was important to include the agency, the Food Information and Control Agency, the AICA, which appeared as it normally appeared in the initiative, in the compromise amendment that all groups approved at the General Councils in Álava. That was normal, and it would also have been good to have taken the leadership of the Basque Government. But that is what makes us understand that we deliberately wanted to separate a fundamental institution from the debate that we are having, absolutely fundamental. And that's why I miss him and I can't fully support that first point. And someone was talking about a union sample. Yes, of course, I believe that we are showing unity, indeed, support for small and medium-sized wineries, winegrowers, farmers, in relation to their needs, and now they have to materialize it, of course, the institutions, the Basque Government, the Chamber, the Spanish Government, of course, have to give those aids, they have to materialize them. And that is the fundamental element, and we, of course, demand and ask. And finally, I couldn't miss the obsession. There could be no lack of obsession, of Bildu's obsession with the regulatory council, of that harassment work in relation to an institution as important, as fundamental for the Rioja wine, for the Rioja Alavesa, as is that regulatory council. With its shortcomings and its virtues, but it is an institution, of course, supported and supported by the vast majority of the sector, in which they are integrated, in which they work, and we continue to call on the Basque Government for better and closer cooperation. And, of course, to remove the obsessions, which lead us only to an impoverishment of the reality of the Rioja Alavesa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u84	Thank you. Does Mr Price want to speak? Yours is the word
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u85	Yes, President. I didn't mean to intervene because I thought we weren't going to do it, because I thought there was enough consensus. But Mrs Etxebarria did some kind of press conference in the second round, as there was no reply because there was no contradiction between the arguments used here, and there was no element of controversy. And, therefore, you brought, as you started your press conference, last week's debate. Well, I'll remember two sentences in this: one that says "don't break the silence, if not to improve it"; the other, reminding Jorge Oteiza, "don't spoil your loser career for a fucking success." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u86	Thank you, Mr Price. The eubertians, Molina, yes, are yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u87	Yes, very briefly. I forgot the first round. Mr. Soto, thank you for your support. And, taking advantage of it, I would also like to highlight the work and effort that Osakidetza is doing these days in the screenings that he is developing for the campaign with temporary staff for the sparrow; he is doing it successfully, as he did in the past harvest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Molina. End of discussion, we'll vote for EH, the Euskal Socialists, and the Middle Amendments signed by the Eucalists. We're asking for points, so we vote for point number one. [[Berber]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 40; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 68; the contrary, 0; abstaining, 6; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u89	First point is approved. Next, we'll vote for points two and three. [[Berber]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 40; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 74; the contrary, 0; abstaining, 0; white, 0; 0; 0; 0,0,0; 0,0,0; 0,0,0,0; white.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u90	So both points have been unanimously accepted. Number of points in theme list: "The same proposition as the parliamentary Podemos-IU teams together concerning the improvement of our young friend's program. Discipline and final resolution. In turn of the proposed team, Mr Martínezion of the Podemos-IU team has the word in order to present and defend action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u91	Hello, good evening. Thank you, ma'am. This crisis we endure is not a new matter, nor is it the case with young people in the Basque Country. It is true that hope for the future is not very great at this time, and we are much concerned about this situation in our group. Youth in Euskadi has been living two giant crises at a fundamental time in their lives. The crisis of 2008, the result of financial and real estate speculation and an outdated model of development. This model, on the other hand, is still in motion right now, and is even more obsolete than then. This crisis brought with it more precarious and, above all, cut the expectations of improving the quality of life for young people, especially for working youth in Euskadi. And we think that from this crisis, from the current crisis, we have to leave in another way. And, as a matter of urgency, we must weave, we must continue to weave and weave even more a safety net that gives decent conditions for people, especially young people, to regain hope in the future. Krisi horretatik irtea murrizketekin, pribatizazioekin, lan-erreformarekin eta abarrekin konpondu zen. Time Honetan beasts irtenbid bat bilatu behar dugu. Erabaki horien ondorioak errez ikusten dira, datuak aztertzen baldin baditugu. Arrakala handia erakusten digute. And the situation they describe when they ask young people is quite worrying: 40% of young people working in Euskadi are afraid to lose their jobs; 54% think they will never work on anything related to their studies; 70% of contracts for people under 35 are temporary, compared to 31% of the general population. That's some of the data. And we talked about it a few weeks ago, the ideal age to emancipate in Euskadi, if we ask young people, would be 24 years; the current European average is 26, and in Euskadi, at the present time, is 30. If we analyze people's data between 18 and 34 years of age, it's only 36% emancipated. Of course, this isn't just a housing problem, but the housing facility is essential. And in that, prices, rent prices are essential. If we see the land: Aran, 800 euros; in Biscaia, 1.022, and in Gipuz, these prices are at 122 euros. And this isn't acceptable. This is not fair. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. no, Hay que credar es arealidad. Of course, it's the subject of the country project, and whether young people have a place in that project. The formation, the job, for example, is a new stage with riffer, to guarantee social rights, and the housing policy. La formción, el empleo écorpor ejemplo, el reconcimito de de derechos para las famas autónmas y mal llamadas riders, se acabban de renocer sus derechos uno peoples somoras socilla quelecta, tarti derechos solias, y guicis de vivien. Todo esto tiee que i de la mano. Funtsezkoa da exebizitza-politika publikoa indartzea. Euskadin daukagun etxebizitza-politika indartu eta hobetu behar yes. Strengthen the housing budget. Adopt, once and for all, the decree of subjective law. To increase also the people who can welcome him, because a reflection that we have been doing lately is that it is too limited to a very limited income. Mobilizing empty housing, building and rehabilitating more public housing park for rent, as mandated by the plans approved in this Parliament. Increasing housing benefits, which could not have been in the budget debate, could also not have been a few weeks ago in a debate on a non-legislative proposal. But let's hope that at least this 2021 ends or 2022 starts with a rise in those housing benefits, because it is very urgent. And also, of course, improve Gaztelagun's program, to reach younger people than those who are arriving at the moment. We are always more ambitious in the housing police than in the government, today even once more. And even the government knows they can have help from this group. And permit me, with all this, to insist that the regulation of the prices of the rents we are about to discuss here as soon as possible. Therefore, as always, we are talking about an amalgamation of policies to ensure the emancipation of youth. And many of them, surely, are being worked on by different groups to improve a youth bill that seems to us to be totally inadequate. And also, at least for our part, we'll talk about housing. As to our youth, we have spoken more than once in this course, in this plune, even in other parts, and we know what virtue and error he has all. Badakigu aurtengo abenduan 1,620 eskaera aktibo zeudela, eta guztira 11 laguntza bath ez zirela eman emantzipatu gabeko 18 eta 35 urte bitarteko 1,000 pertsonako. This means that only 1.1% of young people enjoy, or have access to, the Gaztelagun programme. The margin for improvement, therefore, is very wide. 56 grants per 1,000 young people seeking shelter. Or that the degree of compliance with the programme in the II Master Plan does not reach 40%. We can therefore say that it needs to be improved. We know, then, that all this is not enough. But the state of the younger ones and the dignity requires all instruments. And we're happy that this congressman will take it today to improve this program for young people. We have said and said in recent times that the Gaztelagun programme needs to be reviewed and the conditions of access improved, as the transaction that we have reached between the Basque Socialists, the Basque Socialists and Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita (United Left) groups have said, that the requirements must be relaxed and that both the provision and the references to rent must be adapted to the reality of the real estate market in Euskadi. And here our proposal remains to take as reference the data from official statistics. It is true that we have a difference there, because there are two indices in force right now: the EMA and the OFIN. There's too much difference between those two indices. We think that we have to adjust as much as possible to the reality that we have right now in the real estate market. And in that review that we have also agreed it is essential to take into account the different realities that young people suffer in the 18 to 35 age groups – we are talking about the Gaztelagun program – and there is a lot of difference between the realities of one age group and another. It's true that we haven't managed to insert differences between different fans. But there is an engagement in this medium: That the government will have to consider these things in this revision. We believe it is essential, in that regard, to have achieved the commitment that no request should be left unanswered because the budget is running out. It was true that it had not happened at any time. But if the program can have a tour, bilakaera arrakastatsu bat, egoera hori gertatu ahal da. Eta horrexegatik ezinbastekoa iruditzen zaigu eskaerak programatik kanpo ez generatea. At this point, we therefore thank the two groups that support the Government for their willingness to dialogue and to reach agreement on this particular point. I do not know exactly the voting position of Euskal Herria Bildu, but I imagine he will get the backing at least on some of the points. And if not, I also encourage you to do so. Because from Elkarrekin Podemos-Izquierda Unita we think Gaztelagun has to improve to make it a more useful tool to help ensure access to a decent home for Basque youth. To this end, we believe that we have reached a good agreement to make the requirements more flexible, a commitment to increase aid in the short term, to put an end to the three-year limit on the duration of the programme, and also to try to keep no one who needs it out of this programme. My younger friend needs to improve so that he can help young Basques get a decent apartment. For this purpose we have succeeded in adapting conditions to this agreement, in order that the commitment to increase assistance, and the end of the three-year-old duration of the program, should not be excluded from this program. That's why our proposal goes on. Tosa le toca cumplor al Gobierno. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u92	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Passing over the teams that were running the corrections, Euscala Populara-Ciudados. Ma'am, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u93	Thank you. Well, look, I totally understand the young people's demands. And the Gaztelagun program works for its main purpose, which is the emancipation of our young people. But I'm not going into what you're asking for, which is how long you're young, how long you're not young anymore. Unesco says until 24, from 15 to 24. Well, we can extend that deadline because we understand that the young people of Euskadi do not emancipate. And you too call for the criteria for access to Gaztelagun to be adapted so that it remains a programme that meets the needs of young women with regard to the real estate market. Well, the real estate market has a problem. We have had a number of full members echoing that problem. But, look, what I wanted as a young man was to have a job, and a job according to my qualifications, and a well-paid job. Eye. And I'm from the generation that became independent after the real estate boom, the real estate bubble, and we paid a barbarity for a rent of a little bedside with a room, eye, in the province. Fourth without a lift. And no living in the center of San Sebastian. So, for young people to be emancipated and independent, what we have to do is to propitiate a broth of cultivation so that many companies come, so that we have the freedom to choose a job and not have to take the first one they offer us because there is nothing else. And to feel that years of study and training serve to work on what we want, with the salaries we deserve, with the stability necessary to be able to fly and get out of the nest. And I say necessary stability, because we forget that a study recently came out saying that the Administration has a 30% interinity. And yet, the public sector is about 22%. So let's apply the story, let's apply the story. And one of the great problems that Basque youth and Basque citizens also have is that in the years we have been in democracy there has been no real and strong bet for the construction of social rental housing. And I'm going back to the tests. We have here in Vitoria, on Baltic Sea Street, an entire building without anyone living in it. It's a whole building that runs Alokabide. But we don't know why. They'll answer that, because I've already transferred the question to the counselor. What Gaztelagun does is help those who don't get a job to pay free market rents. We have to push them, of course. We agree. But it is not a question of chronising their situation, but of relaunching their possibility of creating a life project that will satisfy them. But we don't create the same programs for all young people, a coffee for all. This can't be. We believe that there is a need to amend the rules governing social aid in Euskadi and, in particular, to submit to this House, as soon as possible, the draft amendment to Law 18/2008 of 23 December, on income security and social inclusion, as well as to put in place the other measures necessary to remedy the shortcomings in the social protection system in Euskadi, because there is a problem. And it's that you don't protect everyone in the same way, because everyone can't access that social assistance in a fair way. We have said that in Parliament many times. And, likewise, we urge the Government to implement a Lanbide reform plan, to correct the dysfunctions it currently presents in order to achieve the employability of the unemployed. And while that materializes, it's very good that we have programs like Gaztelagun. But an ideal subsidy is the one created to propel the claimant at a point in time of life. And then I'll fly. And I repeat this many times. Look, I got a situation on my mind. When I was a mother for the first time, my mother told me: "Never forget that what your daughter will always thank you for giving her wings, strong wings so she can fly. And if it ever falls, cure it and fly it again." And that's what my mother told me 13 years ago. It's my mother's wisdom. But I apply this right now, I apply it to young people's lives and I say: we have to help them at a point in time. But not forever. So, when you talk about giving Gaztelagun's help, while you can't access any other help, it's goose to goose and shoot because it's my turn. That's what you're asking. And young people, in my way of understanding, don't want that. What young people want is stability. They want sufficient social rental housing on the market, so that they can access it with a stable job. Therefore, what is at stake is to boost the economy so that companies come here and generate work and to promote the construction of social rental housing. It's just that we know there's a problem, but we have very different ways of solving it. And we believe that the subsidy is not the solution, but simply that it is to push, at a given moment, for them to fly and for them to succeed in coming here, for them to come here, for their families to believe here, and for us, as I said last week, to turn the population pyramid. But since we do not agree on how to create job stability and affordable housing for our young people, we are not going to get anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Saez de Egillaz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u95	Yes, good morning. But today, we're here to talk about our young friends. Back to the young people, back to the housing. And it's fine. We think these discussions should be made. But another one from EH Collect comes with a poner otra vez tipsos sobre las íes. I believe that today we are going to have more mania than we normally have from this government. We're here again to discuss the youth friends. And besides, who would have told me after the question made to the chief physician Arriola, and after the profound criticism made around the Castile, we might at least have a minimum chance of making an arrangement. And we've been there pretty close, and I think that's a little too. Today, with the direct support of this government for young people, you will have a chance to say that the Young Man's program is a star. But this is a little lie, too. Otra mentrijilla más, y lo sabéis. As I said, if the medium you've achieved is something, but you won't find us in triumphalism. You won't find us clapping on this government. Without saying, EH Collect clearly isn't enough, because it's not enough. It may be something of the moment, a young man who can give an answer to a definite situation. But you know we're pretty rescinded by the basic view. And I will give you a reason, and I believe that it is also a reason why it may be applied to the different quarters of our life, and that this argument concerns our present policy. In this case, I think you've made tools a purpose. That is to say, with the want of politics and seriously troubling circumstances, this government led its entire administration to work in the hands of the Castile. And when the situation is over, he's only allowed to strengthen his young friend. A program that was really doomed to an absolute failure. Gazteek etxebizitza-eskubidea ez of it exist in exacten dutenean, zuek Gaztelagun exist in exacten tenue. Argudio horretara jotzen duzue beti. It looks like we're playing the mus, and you guys are always playing the little one, so we know what a little player, loser to the mus. I'm not going to start talking about the facts I've sent every day and several times. I'm not going to tell you again that every weekend, every weekend, all the newspapers talk about the young people's situation and that it's a pity that we're in front of a very fat housing problem and that this is a commercial problem. That this program is only used to put raccoons in this program. And of course, that's how we stand in line in Europe too, 30 years on average for youth emancipation. And I'm telling you seriously, you have in front of a generation that will really ask you for accounts, it will ask you for accounts from now on, but also in the future, because it's already worth it. We cannot give up on this situation. And we see that reality surpasses fiction: that we have no houses. The situation's overreacting. And are we really to believe that the young men of EAE, Araba, Bizkai, and Gipulia, exist only for us young men? Let's change our course and start the integrated housing policies, which will be useful, which will be changeable. Let's make a suggestion of them and discuss them. You can't live with the situation today, and I think we should shout out loud. We can't live. My young friend's not a chance today. Maybe it's an instrument, maybe today-a rather weak instrument. When we are condemned to the house of our parents and to rather miserable lives, when you have condemned this society, there may also be a friend of Castile, but there is no real chance of facing it. We think it's a simple way of imagining that he's doing something from the institutions in some way. And you can't fool people with this. He's not a friend of young men. You didn't even invent the name, and that's a bit pitiful. And we are clearly seeing that there are more and more people without houses. And this is not something we say to say, this is a reality. A program, as long as it is a program, does not give an option to surpass the state. It's an opportunity to give help to a lot of people at a particular time. But we need other tools to move forward. We have to change course. And we have to put the housing policies in the centre, and they really need to be radical. Besides, we know you have a problem with tens of them, or with tens of them. To start with, it is not a program available for all young people. In order to continue, though it loosens the conditions, and anticipates the suppleness of the conditions, the conditions remain very strict, and will continue to be so. And I'll tell you again the same thing that comes from a previous initiative: you can't consider problems between 18 and 23 or 25 years from this young friend's program. The question is, that at this age, many young men who live under certain conditions and conditions are taught. Others don't even have a chance to learn economicly, but that's a different issue. The works that are done, if done at that time, are very pretors: To give privates, night barworks, school trainers, guardians, children's watch. That ought to be observed from the Department of Job and Emplegu. But that's another discussion too. Most of the time, these kids get paid in black. I took the black one too. Or, even if you've made a contract, it's very minimal what you get for a year. Dede Luego, it doesn't seem like getting involved in a business like the Young Friend, asking Youth, you don't seem to think we have the chance to do it. That's why we think we have to put the focus there, because we can't imagine that we have any real opportunity to spend it at that age. And he's never going to solve that. I'll say one more thing. Many of the young men who regard the sacrifice, at least because we have a minimum already, or because we have a minimum of certainty. And in such cases, for example, the minimum of the income is very little, they are surpassed, and then even then the young man is of no use to us at that time. It doesn't make sense in many cases, because the comforts of youth are not really based on reality. And are you really going to tell us that this is fundamental to us, and I don't understand at all that a person of 34-year-olds and an 18-year-old really needs them? That they can actually fulfill the same conditions? But that doesn't make any sense. Tenèis una manía de creeros vuestras propias mentires que yo no lo entiendo, no titene ningún feelo eso. Different conditions and offers are required at that age. And if you need them, you have to make a reference to them. It is evident that predominance has spread prodigiously, and that during this period of age young men are condemned to pretorial lives. But each stage of age has specialities, and we find it essential to observe it from public institutions. Why? In a systematic way, because you're avoiding young people through 18-25 all the time. And because it is understood that in this mega family regime there will always be parents to support us, that our parents will always treat us if we can't give them over. What's the matter? If the parents weren't there, if we didn't have these family models, and they wouldn't bet for it, most of the young people would be in the street, and there wouldn't be more chance of it. And your public policies don't count. And I don't say that. The newspapers, TV, Twitter and everyone say it absolutely every day, that we are up to the very top... Yeah, yeah, laugh, a grace to me makes me work precarious and that young people can't emancipate... All right. That's it, wonderful. Adibidez, atzo birala egin zen beast kill bat. Maialen Ferreira, journalist of Diario.eus, said: "They just denied me an official protection house in Bilbo, because with my salary as a journalist I do not get to the minimum of income they ask for, 27 years old and 9 in what they now call hollering to continue covering up precariousness. What's left for me is to go on like this or live as a couple." Eta horixe bera. Izugarrizko kritika egokia egiten du tuit batan. Prekaritaren ondorioak azaleratzen said. Exebizitza-politika eraginkorraren gabezia, ziurtasunik ez bizitzan, lehia konstant batan bizitzera, bizirautera kondenatu izana eta, nola ez, moduren batan, bikote-erregime horren inguruko ere kritika bat Egyptian du. So clearly, for us, there were red lines in this proposal today. We said clearly that even in the earlier initiatives, those young people from 18 to 25, it was necessary to answer them differently. You'll have the Banner, you said before that you'd already be making changes from HUD, you'll make changes in your youth friends. Even today he will stand and he will be proud, but he seems to us to be involuntary. And every time I go down around it, to see such faces, to laugh at them, and always to walk with this spot, it seems to me that there is no need to answer, not only to be shameful, but to be so, at least to a person who publishs a reality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u97	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, Mr. Chief, Congressman, good morning to all of you. This program was born in 2019 with the intention of supporting youth emancipation through financial benefits for the payment of rent. Gaztelagun was not a proposal developed at the request of any social or political group, but an initiative that emerged directly from within the Department of Housing. The Basque Socialists understand that much of the youth was often left out of the social rental system because of having work, slightly exceeding the level of income required or lacking family burdens. To remedy this situation clearly unfairly, by helping them to undertake an autonomous life project with specific benefits for three consecutive years, was precisely the origin of the Gaztelagun programme. In just two years of life it has helped more than 2,300 young people, who also have other tools to access a home. Gaztelagun has been one of those programmes under constant evaluation and, as a result, has adjusted its requirements in its first year of life, substantially improving its results. At a particularly difficult juncture, improvements in Gaztelagun have managed to increase the number of beneficiaries by 127% during 2020, a trend that continues to rise today. On the other hand, the PSE-PNV coalition government will shortly adopt an order of implementing financial measures for this year 2021, which, among other issues, will increase the income of housing in all its sections, reaching 765 euros in the three capitals, Bilbao, San Sebastián and Vitoria-Gasteiz, 750 euros in the metropolitan areas of Bilbao and Donostia/San Sebastián, as well as in the municipalities with more than 10,000 inhabitants, and 675 euros in the rest of the municipalities. The Youth, Emancipation and Housing Needs report in Euskadi 2019 points out that the majority of young people who live on rent pay rents ranging from €451 to €750 per month, with a measure of €615 per month. I am commenting here, because there are already several initiatives of different kinds that have come to this House that have been insisting on the maximum rents of housing allowed in Gaztelagun. Another great line of activity that is developing and driving, which we are pushing the Basque Socialists from our responsibility of government, is the construction of endowment housing, a formula specially designed to favor precisely the emancipation of young people. Because of its characteristics, since they are designed for small living units, and because of its rotating character, as it allows for a maximum of five years, the purpose is for young people to start their life project there and can find at this time a more definitive home to live, either on property or on rent, so that the apartment they have left free can occupy it by other people. In Euskadi we already have 1,600 accommodations in use and at different stages of execution or project, but in order to make further progress in this line of work we need the involvement of the municipalities and their collaboration through the transfer of municipal land. And the third of the measures that have been developed by the Department of Housing, which is of a general nature but directly affects the youth group, is the establishment of quotas in the access to the public rental park housing. Since 2019 the young people have reserved a preferential quota of up to 40% in the new promotions and second auctions of the rental park of the Basque Government. These quotas are determined in the order of commencement of the award processes, taking into account the percentage that each group represents of the total number of persons or living units registered in the register of applicants for housing in the municipality or functional area in which the promotion is located. To be effective, housing policies must be comprehensive, coherent, harmonious and consistent and implemented in the long term. So did those who are now our reference and have been in it for over a century. We must act simultaneously on housing supply and demand and combine promotion and stimulus measures with other regulations, and that is where the coalition government is. Through the new building and the capture of empty housing in Euskadi there is already a public park of almost 20,000 houses, of which 15,000 are managed by the Basque Government itself, and the objective is undoubtedly to increase it, since it has been marked as the next milestone to double this current public offer for affordable rent in the next 15 years. By the end of 2021, the 7,200 dwellings captured through Bizigune will undoubtedly help the entry into force of the decree on uninhabited dwellings, scheduled for mid-year, which provides for the penalization of empty dwellings with a significant economic fee, reaching even measures such as forced rent or temporary expropriation of use and, ultimately, the expropriation of dwellings that do not fulfil their social function. Prior to any punitive action, the public offer of subsidy policies to promote and mobilize private interests towards the general interest will be maintained and enhanced. In addition, there is already a system of economic housing benefits for the payment of rent, from which more than 30,000 families in Euskadi benefit every month. It is also hoped, as has recently been stated in this House, that these rental benefits will be updated by their increase for the year 2022. The commitment of the Basque Socialists is to bring Gaztelagun, who has so far been a three-year temporary pilot whose term expires in 2021, into the structural programme category. From 2022 it will be a permanent grant line, associated and linked consistently to the set of rental benefits. And a tax reform has been proposed that poses a coherent system of incentives and tax disincentives for housing in the IRPF and the rest of the agreed taxes on rental income, in such a way as to encourage real estate income that falls below the income set out in the benchmarks and is penalized by the abolition of such incentives on net returns, discounted deductible expenses, for those who exceed it. In addition, deductions will be intensified for various groups, such as young people. This tax reform is already in place in 2021 and is expected to generate effects from 2022 onwards. Therefore, policies, actions aimed precisely at enabling young people to have an opportunity in an integral way with programmes already based on public policies led by the Department of Housing, so that our young people can develop their life project here in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u98	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beras Long, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, Congressman, good afternoon. We always say that to have a decent apartment to develop a decent life is a right to all of us to have a decent apartment to develop our lives properly. And for this purpose, it is indispensable that the institution should develop strong housing policies, commercial habits. These long-term policies, and the long-continued domestic policy, which is to increase the public offer, must, as we have often said, be brought into the market by those vacant dwellings. And that's our commitment, the commitment to our party, and the commitment to this party, and the daily work. We also engaged to develop into the domestic policy of youth, and this engagement will be articulated in the Basque law of Castile, and this law will introduce a young view into all public policies. There's also a plan of youthful home-life between the goals of fun, so that the kids might be easier to give it to their family housing. In the assembly of the Government, furthermore, we are engaged to facilitate the access of certain collective members of the community to the housing, and amongst these collectives there are young men. And that's where I'd place this young man's program that we're going to discuss today. But, well, even the Castile program is not the only option for young people. Last week we had the subject of the drilling quarters here. There are also co-operative co-operatives of co-operation or use. There are several formulas for young people to assist in this execution. Like I said, it's a program to promote or help young men with regular incomes and young people who live in rentals. Those who have regular incomes, a young man who does not allow them to enter a social rental, but who is very difficult to afford a private rent. And there's a lot of people out there, and we've got a programme that they've got for us, Junior. The spokesman from the Basque Country has mentioned the case of a person read on Twitter who has denied access to a social rental housing for the reason of his income. Well, maybe he can have a choice because he's a program planned for these people or people. The project was created as a pilot in 2019, but there's a lot of young people who can be benefited by that program, you know, when you make improvements on the way, you're gonna stabilize this program. You know, it's just a good habit that she evaluates her programs, and that's what allows you to get a little better, too. And it's an example of that young man. There are other countries where similar programs have also started. With a difference: here there are no lots, and here all that meets the conditions, are assisted by them. And maybe this is the main difference. And in several of the Basque townships there are also similar programmes set up, in which the representatives of the sects which support the Government are not always in power, but also in other respects. And there's been some benefits in this Castile program from the moment something similar has started. and I think the agreement has been very easy, and besides, that the original proposition which we have obtained has been your original proposition, and that it improves our corrections, because we have received more. And that'll allow us to have a better youth program from now on. "You have mentioned the measures which you have spoken before me, but I also have mentioned them. Our young man's program is a new one, which we have received at the first point, in order to bend the terms of access, and then to adapt the rental readiness and reference to the price of the prices in the Eucatatic market. Even so it is now, that numbers do not come out of a joke, and even now they are treated as reference. But, well, we put that in his review as a reference. A collective reality and social condition of the young will be taken into account for the novelty of this program. I believe that this evaluation will be shared with all logic with social and young operators. This line of three years will be removed; it has been planned for three years, but after three years, there are still conditions, I think it's fair to be able to get help in that program, so we've got it. And then we'll even adjust the budget. What we said before, this is not the purpose of providing a lottery, and of helping those who need it, and for that purpose it is necessary that the budget should be also adapted to it. So what I said before: We saw a suitable initial proposal, which our rectification in some way confirmed by the demand of the proposed party, but the middle-class one that we've got today, I believe, will strengthen the young man's program. And here we will confirm our commitment to young men, the commitment to the policy to continue to strengthen them with indirectity. We're talking about the housing today, but in her institution to help young people, I think what we have to do at first is to force the education system, give the young man who wants to go to college. In the course of the week the medical department announced that the university fees, for instance, were frozen after seven years, that their treatment would be much better, or that the job would be much better, and that, in fact, the domestic policy which we are discussing today would be indispensable to the young people in order to be able to receive what is now done in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. Passing on the answers, together with the Podemos-IU, Mr Martínez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u101	Yes, thank you. Well, they weretzuteagatik pixka bat Muriel Larreak komentatzen zuena. Well, we don't define usefulness in politics just as reaching agreements, also political use, from our point of view, is not reaching agreements and confronting when it touches; but confronting something that has something to do with what we're talking about. We and we did not intend – and I will say it later – to sell that with this initiative, not even with Gaztelagun, will solve all the problems of young people living in Euskadi, because it would be telling a lie of a rather stratospheric size, but we are talking about Gaztelagun and we are talking about improving this tool that exists. Perhaps, perhaps, from our parliamentary group, if we were in the Government, we would have designed it differently, perhaps, perhaps not, but at the moment we think that it has many shortcomings and that they need to be improved. Because the life horizon of young people, not only here in Euskadi, throughout the state, in Europe, is not going to be solved by a housing rental aid programme alone. Things like those that are beginning to be done may have to be done, such as ending the labor reform of 2012 that precarioused the lives of millions of people in the Spanish state, and especially young people. To end this horizon of companies being able to make temporary contracts because it gives them the will or because, supposedly, it comes out cheaper, than even that. It is precisely by having the people exploited, forced to accept certain conditions. And that's being done. But we are talking about a specific initiative. In recent weeks we have reached two housing agreements, the previous one was that of the two groups on the left with the Government, this time with only one of them. And, well, I am going to say what I said at the end of the first intervention: it is up to the government to comply with the agreements we have adopted in this Parliament. I have to say that up to now it has been totally or very difficult to reach agreements on housing, also in the past legislature. We have a text, the 2015 Law, that can unite us, but if it develops. Mr. Andueza was now talking about the decree on the mobilization of empty housing. We have talked many times about that decree, it is on the timetable, we know it, but we will also analyse it in detail to meet the final objective and not to reduce that objective of mobilization of empty housing, as has been seen in the statistics of the Government itself. And let those homes, thousands, those that are, those that touch, that is, if it's 13,000 or if it's 35,000, those that are, mobilize in a quick and effective way so that people can access a decent home in Euskadi. I say this again, without renouncing one thing that seems to us to be fundamental to the rest of the housing policy that we have in Euskadi, something that is fundamental at this time of crisis in the economic system in which we live and of the tension of the real estate market, especially in the three capitals and in urban areas, such as the limitation of private rental prices, so that more people can access that private market. And besides, we think it's good even for homeowners. So I say it again, I value it and we value this agreement very much. We will be on it so that it will be fulfilled, that from 2022, from that first quarter, because we have experience in extending deadlines. Let's see if it's done this time, that this program is adapted to get more people, to increase the budget. Let it not be exhausted, as we have said so far, and let no help remain unmanaged. Above all, it seems important to us one thing that has been said here: that the three-year limit should be eliminated and that the transit should be helped. I hope people who at some point need help don't need it later. But that possible transition to housing provision should be without overburden for vulnerable individuals and groups, in this case for youth. So, let's say it again, we value the agreement to improve Gaztelagun, to eliminate the tops, to increase the budget and, above all, to make conditions more flexible for more people to get there. Because, without being the solution to all the problems of youth, we think it will be a tool that can help a fairly large group of young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u102	Thank you, Mr Martínnez. Euskal Talde Popularra, bai, bertatik, Larrea andrea. Larrea laso andreak: What you have done to me in the past is to reaffirm my position. When Bildu's representative said that she echoed a tweet saying that a person did not reach the minimum income to receive a flat from Alokabide and when the lady from the PNV replied to her, "Maybe she has a chance in Gaztelagun", what comes to me to reaffirm is that we have a structural problem with aid in Euskadi. So, what can't be is that someone in Alokabide is denied access because it doesn't reach the minimums. Yes, he can make all the gestures he wants, but he cries out to heaven. All the people who are listening to us right now will understand that Alokabide what he has to do is help people who work and have difficulty accessing the free market. Let them tell you that the minimum requirement does not meet it, which is that of income, when you are already working, man, because it is also necessary to modify that type, that system. Something has to be done. My point is that we have to change, we have to start changing the laws that are not helping our young people to emancipate. Of course it is good that there is Gaztelagun, if I have not positioned myself at any time against it. I believe that until a structural reform of the whole social aid system is carried out in Euskadi there must be Gaztelagun. And on Tuesday I read on a board of government that they had endowed the Gaztelagun program with 9.5 million; welcome be. Of course, there are many young people who need it. But, from my point of view, we have to face a comprehensive reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Larrea. EH Collector, Mrs. Saez de Egillaz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u104	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Well, we want to explain why we didn't make a deal. On the one hand, it seems to us, as I have said before, that the young man's program is not enough to get to the market issues of our present day, and that we are often discussing a club when we speak of our young friends. Nevertheless, we thought it necessary to improve conditions, that there were a couple of things which might be improved in the beginning of Podemos. And we put them in, and we're glad to find one of those points on one side. But the other does not find in this agreement which you have arrived at, and it seems to us that we must in those two ages, because their true conditions are very different, because necessity is very different, because desire and desire differ very much in those ages. And about that, it seems to us that the Castile is not enough for us to do effective housing policies. And because, as I said before, we're just about to change the course. The housing policies must be reviewed in general, with regard to the young ones. Even if they have condemned us to live in poverty, there are opportunities for making public policies in another way. And, further, it seems to us that the moment we live in this sense is very important, because we are under the question of a law of youth, and in this sense may be made. And, indeed, to resist a state of structure, because there are many things to be foreseen in this law. That's why we're going to abstain from this medium, because it seems to us that it's not enough. And at least the headline cannot be as good as if we were to do something very good about our young friends, because we have to do other things too, and in general, and in an efficient way, because we need a downward transformation into all the public domestic policies and the policies which will place the young in the middle.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Saez de Egililaz. Basque Socialists, Mr. Akezana, from the seat.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u106	Yeah. From your seat, if you'll excuse me. First of all, I thank Mr Martínez for his willingness to reach agreements. I think it has been easy, mainly because we were very in tune, and both your proposal and our amendment were very close. And it has certainly been quite easy to reach an agreement. I agree with you that, of course, the solution does not revolve solely and exclusively in policies such as those of Gaztelagun, but that, beyond that, of course, everything has to revolve around comprehensive policies and, above all, cross-cutting policies covering more than one department. And that's what he's doing. There is a strategy set out by this Government that is precisely based on cross-cutting policies that make it possible for youth emancipation and improvement, not only of access to housing, but, beyond that, working conditions, opportunities, and improvement in the training of young people in Euskadi to be constantly improved. Of course, I would like to ask the representative of EH Bildu, because she talks a lot about innovative housing policies, and repeats it over and over again. But here, of course, innovative policies at hand, for the moment, in terms of the legislature, I think there has been none. I would like you to come here, to present, through the initiatives that you consider appropriate, what are those innovative, concrete housing policies that you speak about generically, when, to date, you have come out to speak to this rostrum. I would like to know them, because perhaps through them we can improve the instruments, the tools, the policies that this Government has. Without knowing them, of course, we come to what we believe should be improved and that we should continue to drive. You always say Gaztelagun is insufficient. And what do you want me to say? In his amendment of the single addition, he has dealt exclusively with the issue of age groups, which has not, in fact, yet given us exactly what it was about or why we should insist so much on the issue of age groups. Finally, I would like to invite you, of course, to take advantage of your opportunities and, of course, to talk about concrete policies that come from your hand and that allow us to debate the concrete and not the generic, beyond speeches that, in my view, do little. Perhaps, paraphrasing Pio Baroja, I could tell him that his speeches are something like coffee, that excites, that alters, but that certainly does not feed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u107	Thank you, Mr. Adezana. Eubertarians, Mrs. Beragon, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u108	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. With your permission. In answer to the spokesman of the Basque Country, Mrs Saez de Egilaz, you mentioned, in the same manner as Mr. Audeza has said, the changing domestic policies. And on April 15th, you made a similar speech in a motion you introduced. And I invite you, too, as he has told you, to introduce a new initiative and to make sure what such pathetic policies must be, or what you think is really the new housing policy. But with exact measures, what empty discourses, heated with heat, bring no result at all. You mentioned in the previous discussion that a fundamental income should be paid to the young men, I don't know, without any condition. It seemed to everyone... I don't know. I think we ought to clear them up a little or specify them a little so we can have a serious discussion. Eta Alderdi Popularreko ordezkariari, esan behar said zure zuzenketa... When I saw your amendment, Mrs Larrea, I was actually surprised. I thought he had even been wrong about GNP, because, in fact, it had nothing to do with the proposal we are discussing today. We were talking about a specific program. Elkarrekin Podemos proposed a bill on the Gaztelagun programme. And you were talking about the review of the aid policy, the reform of the GIR... Today he has insisted on the subject. I do not know, I think I also had to bring, I think, with all due respect, I say to you, a more concrete proposal to improve this Gaztelagun programme, which is part of the housing policies that this Government is developing and which is, of course, responding to a group of young people who, as Mrs Bildu has said, and you have also commented on it in your reply, responds to people who, because of their income, do not enter the group of beneficiaries of the social rental housing that Alokabide manages, but who, passing a little over those maximum incomes, do not arrive either in a position to pay the income of the free market. And those people, those young people are the ones who are being directed by this Gaztelagun program, and it helps to emancipate many of them. I believe that, seeing that this is a valid programme, what I should have done is to make proposals for improvement, which is, of course, humbly, what we have intended to do for others. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Beragon. End of discussion, we'll vote at the first point to add the EH Collect Group. We can vote. Coding correction. After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 37; the votes given, 71; in favour of the enemy, 24; the contrary, 39; the abstainments, 8; white, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u110	So it's not accepted. We're going to vote together for the middle-term correction of Podemos-IU, Euskal Socialists and Eubertists. You can vote. After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 40; votes given, 74; in favour of 47; on the contrary, 6. Absences, 21. white, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2021-05-13.u111	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was three o'clock in the afternoon and forty-eight.
